Corporate Social Responsibility Policy. Corporate Social Responsibility Policy 2019 Statement of continued support ............................... 3 Summary: our commitment to CSR ............................... 4 Organizational Governance .................................... 5 CSR Memberships, Platforms & Tools ........................... 7 Supply Chain Sustainability .................................. 8 Quality Management .......................................... 11 Labor and Human Rights ...................................... 13 Fair Operating Practices .................................... 16 CSR Initiatives 2018-19 ..................................... 18 2019/2020 Sustainable products .............................. 19 Measurements 2018 ........................................... 21 Annex 1: IGC Code of Conduct ................................ 22 2 Statement of continued support Rotterdam June 5th, 2019 I am pleased to confirm that IGC International reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. We joined the UN Global Compact May 2017, as we wanted to adopt an internationally recognized framework for structuring and reporting on our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) efforts. Our Communication on Progress (COP) is integrated into our Corporate Social Responsibility policy, which we update and release annually. This document describes our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. This COP will be shared with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Hans Poulis CEO, IGC International 3 Summary: our commitment to CSR IGC International is a distributor of promotional products & corporate gifts, located in Rotterdam, the Netherlands. We are part of a global network operating since 1956 with 50+ partners who collectively cover over 110 countries. Together we service multinational clients. Protecting our client’s brand is our responsibility. We are accountable to our clients and to the (end)consumer for the quality and safety of the product we provide. With every project IGC adheres to strict corporate, social and product safety regulations. While adherence to these rules may not always result in the lowest priced product to the buyer, IGC is always able to show why our product proposal might be higher priced than a similar product from a non-certified vendor. We prefer to solely work with key suppliers who are able to deliver the highest quality products and are also able to offer eco-friendly materials, such as FSC paper, recycled PET bottles, or organically sourced cotton. This way we stay clear from harmful chemicals that may be detrimental to human health. We have a large network of local and international suppliers. As a result, we have an obligation to make sure that our products are ethically-sourced. All suppliers that we work with, are obligated to sign our Supplier Code of Conduct, demonstrating their commitment to our CSR program. This allows us to ensure compliance with human rights, labor, health & safety and environmental regulations. CSR is a component of our overall business strategy and part of our company DNA. We believe CSR is a musthave not a nice-to-have. 4 Organizational Governance Mission Our company mission states: We want to be the leading full-compliance international distributor offering mid-sized and international operating companies superior value through high quality services from design to delivery. With full-compliance we mean compliance to laws, rules & regulations (whether its national, international or set up by our clients) but also going beyond compliance. We want to set the (CSR) standard in our industry. CSR motive Our reasons to put CSR into practice are: • Innovation: creating sustainable solutions. • Brand differentiation: our strategy sets us apart from competitors who do not adhere to the same standards and practices as we do. • Customer/stakeholder engagement: we can raise awareness by sharing knowledge. We also support our client’s/stakeholders CSR goals and partner up with them for special projects. • Long-term thinking: CSR is an effort to look at the company's long-term interests and ensuring the company is sustainable. As a business we must fulfil stakeholder expectations. Our multinational clients want us to respect their CSR policies. But this isn’t our main reason to make CSR a priority topic. We see CSR as a moral duty (intrinsic motive). Sphere of influence Core business activities (workplace) Supply Chain – Society Environment. Stakeholders Our stakeholders include: suppliers (e.g. manufacturers, wholesalers, traders), our forwarder (transport), service providers, our IGC partners, the promotional product industry, our employees, our clients and indirectly the end users of our products. The end user is either our client (staff) or consumers buying a product from our client and receiving a gift (made by us) with their purchase. Scope In 2017-18 we focused on supply chain sustainability, tackling subjects like labor practices, human rights and fair operating practices. In 2019-2020 we will focus on creating environmental awareness amongst our stakeholders (clients) and promoting sustainable products. We will discuss both topics in this document. CSR team We have appointed a CSR specialist, who receives frequent training on relevant topics. Responsibilities include setting up policies, training of staff and managing all CSR platforms/ memberships. Reporting is done in cooperation with our management. We also have a dedicated ISO 9001 specialist, a team member specialized in product compliance & testing and one specialized in factory audits. We have external partners who give us support when needed. 5 compliance@igc-international.com is our dedicated email address for compliance and CSR related issues/cases. SASB's Materiality Map SASB’s Materiality Map identifies sustainability issues that are likely to affect the financial condition or operating performance of companies within an industry. Our industry (and related): Services industry: advertising & marketing Consumer goods: apparel, accessories & footwear, e-commerce, multiline and speciality retailers & distributors, toys & sporting goods. Sustainability issues: Selling practices & product labelling, energy management, water & wastewater management, customer privacy, data security, product quality & safety, labor practices, employee engagement, diversity & inclusion, product design & lifecycle management, supply chain management, materials sourcing & efficiency. 6 CSR Memberships, Platforms & Tools EcoVadis Gold CSR Rating In order to make our activities transparent for our partners and customers, we put ourselves forward for assessment covering 21 criteria across four themes; Environment, Fair labor practices, Ethics/fair business practices and the Supply chain. We are proud of the fact that in 2018 our responsible business practices have been rated Gold for the second consecutive year by EcoVadis. This positions us in the top 5% of suppliers assessed by the international CSR platform. The graph shows the position of IGC compared to the average of all companies assessed by EcoVadis in the same industry. We hope to achieve a higher rating this year (2019) as we have implemented several improvements/processes and policies. Sedex (B) membership We are a member of Sedex, home to one of the world's largest collaborative platform for buyers, suppliers and auditors to store, share and report on information quickly and easily. The platform is used by more than 43.000 members in over 150 countries to manage performance around labor rights, health & safety, the environment and business ethics. Being a member of Sedex is a sign of our willingness to share information and to use this information to help manage and improve ethical standards within the supply chain. MVO Nederland (CSR Netherlands) In January 2018 we became partners of MVO Nederland. MVO NL is the Centre of Excellence for Dutch companies that are striving towards corporate social responsibility. More than 2000 companies are affiliated with this networking organization. Our reason to join was to be able to access a local network. Via their platform we can discuss the topic of CSR in our native language and have access to valuable tools and training (e.g. ISO 26000) to give structure to our CSR policy. 7 Supply Chain Sustainability This process/policy covers UN Global Compact principles 1 to 6 on human rights & labor and Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 12 on responsible consumption and production. (Responsible) Supply Chain Management allows us to manage risk across global and complex supply chains. We work closely with our suppliers to address human rights, labor, health & safety and environmental issues. Transparency We don’t manufacture products ourselves, but source our products in Europe and the Far East from a diverse range of suppliers (direct or indirectly through an intermediary). We ask our partners to be transparent about the origin of their products and how they were produced. There are still traders/wholesalers in our industry who don’t disclose this information. Which is why we have decided to only work with suppliers who give us full disclosure. Scope Our supply chain is the area where we have our biggest impact and opportunity to influence social and environmental conditions. Our main focus is on our product suppliers. A ‘supplier’ can be defined as: a (promotional) product manufacturer, wholesaler or trader. We will focus on the following risk areas: • Focus on the areas that present the greatest risk of adverse impact on people, environment and government according to the country, sector, activity, or type of relationship with the supplier. • Focus on top spend suppliers identify largest categories of procurement spend and categories that are critical to business operations in terms of little or no availability of alternative options (evaluation once a year). • Focus on suppliers of services and products that have or may have a high risk of negative impact on people and environment. Workflow • First dialogue with the supplier, this can be during a trade event or via telephone/online conference. • If we are interested in working with the supplier, we ask them to provide us with information like a catalogue (digital), access to their online platform and pricelists. • When we have genuine interest to work with this supplier we ask them to fill in our Supplier Checklist which gives us more insight (e.g. contact information, certifications). • All suppliers we work with must sign our Supplier Code of Conduct. • We will review information given by the supplier to see if they are a right fit for us and adhere to rules & regulations + are in line with our CSR policies (assessment framework shown below). • After we have approved the supplier, we can add them to our supplier mapping list. • Suppliers will be evaluated every year. When certifications are expired they must provide updated documents. 8 Supplier assessment When assessing our suppliers, we need to follow a few steps: • Is the supplier/factory from a high-risk country or not? The BSCI list of high risk countries is available as a check list. Printing facilities also need to be located in a low-risk country, if not they need to be audited. • The supplier/factory of choice is located in a low-risk country No further action is needed if products are from stock and/or are produced locally. • The supplier/factory of choice is located in a high-risk country We must ask this supplier/factory if they have valid audit certifications (e.g. SMETA 2 or 4 pillar, SA8000, BSCI) The certifications must not be older than 3 years. We must ask for the full set of documentation (at least 20 pages). • If the supplier doesn’t have the right documentation we need to check if they are easy to substitute and how much our spend is with this supplier. If we really need the supplier we can opt for an audit (by third party) and either share costs or fully pay for this audit. • Audit documentation is reviewed by a compliance specialist. All suppliers from high risk countries should be reviewed and can’t be used without permission of the person in charge of CSR + management. Supplier mapping: tracing products to the source All suppliers we work with are added to our ERP database and supplier mapping list. The mapping list shows e.g. • The factory/supplier name • Country of origin • Certifications (type and validity) • Type of factory (specialty) • Starting year of business • Main clients of the factory • Number of employees • Superficy (square meters) • Annual production capacity • Information on total sales with this supplier Key supplier selection Our supplier mapping list includes all suppliers we work with + those who are of interest to our company (potential). Only several suppliers are seen as key suppliers. We prefer working with these suppliers because of several reasons. Criteria include: • Quality (best-in-class) • Discount • High rating (supplier evaluation) • Long-term relationship • Spend • Not easy to substitute • Innovation Key suppliers are our first choice in the sourcing process. 9 Supplier evaluation & performance management In our ISO 9001:2015 certified quality management system we have a supplier rating/evaluation platform. We can register issues and evaluate our key suppliers. We take different criteria in consideration when rating our suppliers including: quality, price, delivery, service/communication, CSR, innovation/creativity, flexibility. Evaluation is done once a year in cooperation with our sales team. 10 Quality Management Quality Policy Our quality policy is defined and strongly driven by the following management principles and behaviours: • Build a mutually profitable relationship with our customers, ensuring their long-term success, through the understanding of their needs and the needs of their customers as well. • Achieve our commitments for quality, cost, and schedule. • Enhance the systematic research and use of best preventive practices at all levels and ensure reliable risk management. • Drive continual improvement and innovation based upon efficient business processes, welldefined measurements, best practices, and customer surveys. • Develop staff competencies, creativity, empowerment and accountability through appropriate development programs and show strong management involvement and commitment. IGC strives to be the best provider of promotional goods in the industry. Through the use of these guiding principles, everyone in IGC is accountable for fully satisfying our customers by meeting or exceeding their needs and expectations with best-inclass solutions and services. Our goal is 100% customer satisfaction 100% of the time. ISO 9001:2015 Quality Management System In June 2018 our quality management system was independently audited by Lloyd's Register Quality Assurance (LRQA) and awarded the ISO 9001:2015 certification. As a certified company, we follow the requirements, specifications, guidelines and characteristics set forth to ensure that we are consistently producing products, processes and services that meet world class standards. (Upcoming re-audit June 11, 2019). 11 Conformatix We have implemented a new online platform in June 2018. It allows us to manage quality & compliance in a smart and efficient way. This includes ISO, NEN, GDPR and other legislations/certifications. The program helps us organize: law, requirements, risks, standards, governance, regulations, transparency, policies and processes. * This platform was made by our IT specialist for IGC, but is now also available for other companies. Product compliance It can be difficult to understand local and international product legislation. Different rules and regulations apply in practically every country in the world; for instance, a product that will be marketed in Europe has completely different standards than South America. It cannot be assumed that every product is automatically compliant to all applicable directives, regulations and harmonized standards. Some of these requirements, such as REACH, apply to all articles whereas other requirements are product specific such as EN 62115 which applies to electric toys only. Therefore, IGC teamed up with ProductIP. ProductIP is a multi-user web-based solution enabling cooperation between supply chain partners. The platform allows IGC to manage and control the supply chain especially for stock productions. We are able to manage product compliance in a transparent, efficient and proactive way and are able to provide testing reports of products online. ProductIP also checks product labels, packaging and instruction manuals, to make sure these documents are in-line with local (product) legislations. Factory audits & quality control A lot of suppliers we work with have already been audited by third parties and are able to provide certifications and documentation of these audits. There are scenarios in which a supplier has no relevant social and/or environmental certifications. If we wish to work with them, we must audit the supplier ourselves (via a third party auditor). Other reasons to audit a supplier are e.g. a supplier is hard to substitute, it is a top spend supplier, the client requests to audit the supplier, the supplier produces sensitive items (for children). We also have an IGC partner in the Far East who is able to visit the factories to do quality control checks and make sure all processes are respected. This way we ensure product quality is maintained or improved and manufacturing errors are reduced or eliminated. Sometimes it is necessary that a member of our team from Rotterdam visits the factory to make sure production runs smoothly. It is also possible that a client requests an audit on our own premises e.g. this year a Together for Sustainability audit will take place in Q4, which will be conducted by SGS. QIMA (Asia Inspection) is a global leading quality control and compliance service provider that partners with brands, retailers and importers around the world to secure, manage and optimize their global supply chain. QIMA handles all factory (social) audits, quality control and lab testing for IGC regarding bespoke and custom-made productions. Lab testing All consumer products have the potential to cause harm to users without adequate safety controls. If we don’t respect quality and safety requirements it can result in costly product recalls, legal issues, and reputational damage. We conduct lab testing and do product inspections at various stages of the manufacturing process. 12 Labor and Human Rights Our labor and human rights practices support UN Global Compact principles on human rights and labor, SDG 8 on decent work and economic growth and SDG 3 on good health and well-being. Teamwork We are not a team because we work together. We are a team because we respect, trust and care for each other. Our team principles: • Treat others the way you want to be treated • Honest and open communication: share knowledge, ideas and concerns • Recognize the contributions of others and give credit to other people’s ideas • Maintain a culture of loyalty, trust, solidarity and respect. Employee Handbook Our employee handbook discusses (HR) working conditions like remuneration, employee benefits (e.g. our pension fund), work schedule, employment terms, workload, performance management etc. Employee Awareness Program (EAP) Our EAP supports UN Global Compact principles on Environment. Our employee awareness program (EAP) aims to inform our team about CSR. Our EAP gives us guidance on how we, as a company, can reduce our impact on the earth – our ecological footprint to be more specific. We have set up several guidelines when it comes to paper use and printing, waste management, use of office equipment, food, electricity use and other tips and tricks that promote a CSR state of mind. Employee Health & Safety We have a responsibility to look after our employees and protect them against health and safety hazards at work. In our industry we can identify the following risks: • Ergonomic hazards • Psychosocial hazards • Physical hazards We conduct a risk inventory and evaluation (RI&E) every year to identify (potential) risks and draw up an action plan with measures to mitigate risk and solve issues. We also work together with occupational health and safety agency ArboNed, who give absence support (preventing, reducing and solving). We also inform our employees on ergonomic hazards and how to prevent musculoskeletal disorders. Our employee handbook features useful tips. Employees are also able to do an online physical load check via TNO. Work environment In 2019 we have planned several changes to our offices to create an even better, safer & healthier work environment for our staff. Measures are based on RI&E results. Healthy lunch program IGC provides their employees with a healthy lunch (including a choice of fruit) to promote a healthy lifestyle. 13 Career management & training Our employees can apply for courses/training to improve their skillset. Management supports training inline with the employee’s function and tasks. Employee satisfaction: our management is open to ideas/suggestions/complaints of employees. They can be send in via email. In 2020 we would like to introduce an annual survey to measure employee satisfaction. Internships Students from Dutch and International universities are welcome to do their internship at IGC. This way they get the opportunity to put their education to practice and develop new skills on the job. In 2019 we have applied to become an accredited work placement company. This will enable us to also train Vocational Education students. Volunteering We encourage staff to donate time to community causes (employee supported volunteering). It can be done on company time (in agreement with management). In 2020 we would like to organise a special day for our team during which we give back to our local community by volunteering. Diversity, Discrimination & Harassment We are committed to create a safe and happy workplace for everyone. Equal opportunity employer IGC International is an equal opportunity employer. This means that all aspects of employment including the decision to hire, promote or discharge, is based on competence and performance. We offer compensation and benefits according to position, seniority, qualifications and performance. Anti-discrimination We will not tolerate any kind of discrimination that creates a hostile and unpleasant environment for employees. Discrimination is any negative action or attitude directed towards someone, based on the group, class, or category to which the person is perceived to belong. • Race/Ethnicity/Nationality • Gender identity/Sexual orientation • Age • Religion • Disability/Medical history • Marriage/Civil partnership • Pregnancy/Maternity/Paternity This anti-discrimination policy applies to: recruitment, decisions related to training, promotion, continued employment and working conditions in general, relationships with our suppliers, clients, business partners, and third parties. 14 What to do in cases of discrimination If you are the victim of discriminatory behaviour (or if you suspect that others are being discriminated against) please file a formal complaint via compliance@igc-international.com. Our management team will judge the severity of the offence and will take action accordingly. Anything you disclose will remain confidential. We recognize that sometimes discrimination is unintentional, as we may all have unconscious biases that could be difficult to identify and overcome. If we conclude that an employee unconsciously discriminates, we will support them through counselling and training. Workplace harassment We will not tolerate anyone intimidating, humiliating or sabotaging others in our workplace. Harassment includes bullying, intimidation, direct insults, malicious gossip and victimization. Examples: • Actions intended to cause hurt or upset. • Deliberately setting a person up to make a mistake e.g. sabotaging someone’s work on purpose. • Humiliation or intimidation e.g. ridiculing someone in front of others, starting or spreading rumours about a person’s personal life. • Physical or social isolation (silent treatment) • Engaging in frequent or unwanted advances of any nature • Sexual harassment is illegal. If an employee is found guilty of sexual harassment, they will be terminated. How to address harassment If you suspect that an offender doesn’t realize they are guilty of harassment, you could talk to them directly in an effort to resolve the issue. This tactic is appropriate for cases of minor harassment. In other cases you can file a formal complaint via compliance@igc-international.com and/or speak to management directly. They will assess your situation and will act accordingly. Anything you disclose will remain confidential. 15 Fair Operating Practices This chapter supports UN Global Compact principle 10 on Anti-Corruption. Our code of business ethics gives examples of problems that can arise in a business environment, how to act in these situations and preventive measures we can take. Our employees are expected to behave in an ethically responsible way. We use tools provided by the NGO Transparency International and United Nations initiative UN Global Compact to train our employees and give them guidance. As a global business we also fight corruption in our supply chain. If a supplier violates our Code of Conduct we have to step up and take measures. There are different cases in which unethical behavior can occur. Examples are manufacturers who falsify audit documentation, colleagues who take bribes, conflict of interest or manufacturers who corruptly bypass health and safety requirements. We must create an understanding that all forms of corruption and bribery are wrong and illegal. It has an adverse reputational impact on our organization and brand. Compliance with laws and rules We must abide by all laws of the countries we operate in, and all rules & regulations of IGC International as described in our employee handbook or stated in our CSR Policy. Anti-corruption The 10th principle of the UN Global Compact urges us to work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Transparency International gives the following definitions of corruption and bribery: Corruption The abuse of entrusted power for private gain. Bribery The offering, promising, giving, accepting or soliciting of an advantage as an inducement for an action which is illegal or a breach of trust. IGC International is committed to conducting business in an ethical manner. Employees are encouraged to report (compliance) violations at an early stage to our dedicated CSR specialist. Fair competition We respect our stakeholders & competitors. IGC complies with competition laws & regulations. We understand that fair competition between companies is based on factors like quality, price and service. We don’t support unfair methods of competition. Examples of unfair competition are: imitation, below cost-selling, misleading advertising, defamation. We respect (intellectual) property rights We must ensure at all times that we have the right to use or sell a property. Intellectual property includes e.g. copyrights, patents, trademarks and publicity rights. Ways to protect property rights include non-disclosure agreements (NDAs), or passages in (sales) contracts. 16 Conflict of interest should be avoided Definition by Transparency International: Situation where an individual or the entity for which they work, whether a government, business, media outlet or civil society organization, is confronted with choosing between the duties and demands of their position and their own private interests. Examples are: • A manager is romantically involved with an employee who reports to him/her. • You accept personal gifts from a supplier and then select their products for purchase by the company. • You hire (unqualified) family/friends to provide services/products to the company. Gifts and hospitality Gifts can improve working relationships, but they can also cause conflict between personal interest and professional duty. Gifts, hospitality, and entertainment must be modest, reasonable and infrequent (symbolic). Requirements: it should not be made with the intention of influencing the recipient, return of favor should not be expected, it should be given in the name of the company, not an individual, no cash/cash equivalent, appropriate type and value given at an appropriate time. Charitable contributions and sponsorships should be publicly disclosed. Know that the practice of giving and receiving business gifts varies between countries, cultures & religions. What is acceptable and not acceptable might differ. Record keeping We keep detailed financial records and have appropriate internal controls in place to act as evidence for all payments made. All team members must inform management about gifts/hospitality given/received and share the reason for giving so we can keep track of these payments. Fair treatment of suppliers We must maintain impartial and fair relationships with business partners (e.g. fair selection of suppliers, no favoritism). Transparency We must be honest, open and transparent in the disclosure of information, rules, plans, processes and actions. Whistleblower policy Employees are able to report non-compliance without being worried of any retaliation, punishment or unfair treatment and can do so under assurance of confidentiality. If you have serious concerns about what is happening at work, you can report such concerns via compliance@igc-international.com. Examples of non-compliance are e.g. fraud, theft, corruption, discrimination or harassment, or any other ethical or behavioural complaints. 17 CSR Initiatives 2018-19 Together For Sustainability: Sustainability role models In 2019 we have been put forward by one of our clients and the Together for Sustainability (TfS) initiative as a sustainability role model. We have written a best practice case which will be shared on their platform. We are honored to have been selected as role models by the TfS initiative and hope we can inspire other companies to drive sustainable development. Digital Christmas card + donation In 2018 we have decided to no longer distribute paper Christmas cards to our stakeholders as it is not inline with our CSR policy. A digital version was sent instead. In 2019 we will also choose a charity of our choice to donate money to. A Christmas tradition we wish to uphold in the upcoming years. Sharing CSR success stories via Social Media Our membership includes 50+ members located all over the world. Every member company has its own projects regarding CSR. Via our joined social media account, we often share projects of our member companies. Success stories to motivate and inspire others. We also share relevant information with our stakeholders via social media about different CSR topics. This way we spread the word. Recycling of packaging materials We receive and send a lot of boxes containing e.g. product samples. To limit the amount of waste, we have decided to recycle everything we receive. We collect boxes and protective filler material, to be re-used. Release of Eco collection 2019 Q4 2019 we expect to release our digital eco brochure containing sustainable alternatives to standard promotional items. We will use this brochure to help our clients make more responsible and sustainable choices. (see the next chapter for a detailed description of this project). 18 2019/2020 Sustainable products Our 2019/20 project to promote sustainable items and create environmental awareness amongst our clients is in line with UN Global Compact principle 8 & 9 which states that we need to undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility and encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. It is also in-line with SDG 12, responsible consumption and production. Definitions Sustainable consumption is the use of products and services that have a minimal impact on the environment so future generations can meet their needs. Sustainable products are products that provide environmental, social and economic benefits while protecting public health and environment over their whole life cycle, from the extraction of raw materials until the final disposal. Sustainability & the promotional products industry Our industry is slowly moving towards a sustainable future. Our suppliers are giving more and more attention to sustainability and a few are now able to provide sustainable products and/or materials/components. Our challenge lies in convincing our clients of the added value. We often receive the question ‘’why are your prices higher than your competitors?’’ Price plays a big role in the purchasing of branded products. We try to make our clients aware of the fact that finding a cheap product for the absolute lowest price, doesn’t mean that it is of good value. We make sure we find the right products for our clients. The branded products we provide are creative solutions. If you purchase a cheap product of inferior quality and of no use to the consumer it will end up in the trash, unused. We prefer functional, high quality products to disposable, cheap giveaways. We are able to explain why our prices might be higher than competitors who propose non-compliant items. Our products are sourced from suppliers who comply with social & environmental standards. Our suppliers respect our Code of Conduct. We conduct audits and do quality control and testing to guarantee quality. Going beyond compliance Our desire is to go beyond compliance. Our 2017/18 goal was focused on being 100% compliant. In the upcoming years we want to push for change by introducing sustainable products to clients and to create environmental awareness by giving advice. What impact does their product choice have on consumer health & safety and the environment? Why should they go for e.g. a biodegradable pen instead of a normal pen? We will: • Actively promote the use of sustainable/certified materials e.g. PVC free, FSC paper, OEKO-TEX certified textiles, Fairtrade, GOTS, biodegradable or recyclable materials (see examples materials below) • Promote the use of sustainable (end) products: We will propose sustainable items whenever there is a product request from a client. We inform our clients about its benefits in comparison to a noncompliant product. This way we give them the opportunity to make sustainable choices. We can also give advice on packaging options. 19 • Use sustainable suppliers from our key supplier list. We will create a separate list with suppliers who perform best CSR wise. • We will regularly train our sales team on CSR. • Give honest advice: we give our clients honest advice about our products. E.g. our client requests an item which has a bad reputation in the market in this situation we advise them to opt for a safer/better option or advise against using this item. We are serious about our client’s reputation and the health & safety of their end-users. • Include tags to sustainable samples which explain the benefit of the product in hopes the clients opts for this product instead of the non-sustainable options. • Explain why Product B is better than Product A. While they might look the same. • Explain our clients why they should choose IGC over competitors (we are 100% compliant). • Promote sustainable consumption by embracing our sustainable marketing messages: not all branded products are created equally and if your branded product could talk, what would it say? • Communicate branded products as sustainable solutions e.g. re-usable water bottles vs plastic bottles. • Promote the recycling of promotional products. Make sure we develop products people want to keep for years or give-away to others instead of throwing away. • Give away samples instead of throwing them away e.g. notebooks & pens to schools or foundations supporting children in need. Don’t ask for samples you won’t be using/proposing. • Give information on sustainable products via social media and direct mail (campaigns, trends). Goals & How to measure • % sales sustainable products • % products made in Europe by European suppliers • % sustainable packaging • % recycled/recyclable products/materials • Reduce use of hazardous materials (and conflict minerals) • Reduce the use of supplier catalogues (hardcopy) • Stimulate IGC Group consolidation of products Regarding our supply chain: • Reduce import Far East by promoting European suppliers • Introduce local suppliers/production (Made in Benelux) Examples of sustainable materials/regulations • The REACH regulation applies to (chemical) substances manufactured or imported into the EU in quantities of 1 ton or more per year. Products from stock holders must be REACH compliant. • Print preferably phthalates and AZO dye free. • Textile items in contact with the skin need to be OEKO-TEX® Standard 100 certified. Blue Sign is accepted for the US market. • We prefer PVC free items as it is the most toxic plastic for our health and the environment. • All paper, wood and cardboard items need to be FSC certified. If locally there is no FSC, available PEFC is allowed or recycled paper. • We prefer FSC certified packaging and would rather not use packaging that contains PVC. • Toys must be safe for children to play with. EU legislation aims to ensure that toys meet safety requirements that are amongst the strictest in the world, especially in relation to the use of chemicals in toys. 20 Measurements 2018 Location: Van Nelle Fabriek IGC has a unit in the Van Nelle Fabriek, a UNESCO world heritage site. This is a shared building. Measuring our impact on the environment e.g. energy, water, CO2 emissions are therefore difficult. Measures taken by the Van Nelle Fabriek regarding sustainability: • Energy from Greenchoice, the largest energy provider in the Netherlands that exclusively provides green, sustainable energy. • Grey water recycling: public toilets use ‘grey water’ for flushing from the Schie river. • 2 electrical cars which can be used by tenants to drive to meetings • A gardener who takes care of the green areas surrounding the building • Van Nelle Fabriek will install a mega-battery in the near future, which uses energy from windmills. Logistics & Warehousing We use a long-term partner for air & sea freight and warehousing. They have their own social & environmental policy and try their best to reduce CO2 emissions. We have no insight in CO2 levels. We advise our clients to use sea freight over air freight, but we realize both shipping methods have a big environmental footprint. Electricity: We can make an estimation of our electricity use, which is approx. +/7000 kWh (year). Compliance: We received no (monetary) fines regarding compliance. We have passed all audits performed this year by our clients/third parties (to date). Anti-Corruption: We have not been involved in any legal cases related to corruption and bribery. Product recalls: 0% of total output. Supply Chain Sustainability: 95% of the suppliers we've worked with in 2018 have signed our CoC. Those who haven't will not receive any orders in 2020 unless they respect our CoC. 60% of our key suppliers hold stock and/or produce in the EU. Sustainable products: 35% of total products produced in 2018 can be categorized as sustainable. We wish to increase this number with our 2019/20 sustainable products project. Our goal is to push this percentage to 50% in the upcoming year. Team demographics: gender/age breakdown Diversity is essential for success. This is a value we believe in as a local team and a global network of +/1800 employees. Our team exists of 10 people (June 2019) at Rotterdam HQ. We will be welcoming more members to our team in the upcoming months. Gender: Female 5 Male 5 Age: 25-35 3 35-45 3 45-55 2 55+ 2 21 Annex 1: IGC Code of Conduct Our Supplier Code of Conduct defines the non-negotiable minimum standards that we ask our suppliers to respect and to adhere to when conducting business with IGC International. The Code of Conduct has been developed with recognition of the importance of the ten principles of the UN Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Human Rights & Labour Employment is freely chosen We will not tolerate any form of forced labour or labour, which involves physical or mental abuse or any form of mental or corporal punishment. Freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining are respected Workers, without distinction, have the right to join or form trade unions of their own choosing and to bargain collectively. Working conditions are safe and hygienic A safe and hygienic working environment shall be provided, bearing in mind the prevailing knowledge of the industry and of any specific hazards. Adequate steps shall be taken to prevent accidents and injury to health arising out of, associated with, or occurring in the course of work, by minimising, so far as is reasonably practicable, the causes of hazards inherent in the working environment. Child labour shall not be used We expect our suppliers not to employ: (a) children below 14 years of age or, if higher than that age, the minimum age of employment permitted by the law of the country or countries where the performance, in whole or in part, of a contract takes place, or the age of the end of compulsory schooling in that country or countries, whichever is higher; and (b) persons under the age of 18 for work that, by its nature or the circumstances in which it is carried out, is likely to harm the health, safety or morals of such persons. Living wages are paid Wages and benefits paid for a standard working week meet, at a minimum, national legal standards or industry benchmark standards, whichever is higher. In any event wages should always be enough to meet basic needs. All workers shall be provided with written and understandable information about their employment conditions in respect to wages before they enter employment. Deductions from wages as a disciplinary measure shall not be permitted nor shall any deductions from wages not provided for by national law be permitted without the expressed permission of the worker concerned. Working hours are not excessive The supplier must ensure that its employees work in compliance with all applicable laws and mandatory industry standards pertaining to regular working hours, and overtime hours Any overtime worked shall be voluntary and compensated. 22 Fair and Equal Treatment The supplier shall not discriminate in hiring and employment practices on the grounds of criteria such as of race, colour, religion, gender, age, physical ability, national origin, sexual orientation, political affiliation, union membership, medical tests, or marital status. Any form of psychological, physical, sexual or verbal abuse, intimidation, threat or harassment must not be tolerated. Environment We expect our suppliers to have an effective environmental policy and to comply with existing legislation and regulations regarding the protection of the environment. Suppliers should wherever possible support a precautionary approach to environmental matters. Chemical and Hazardous Materials: The Supplier shall identify hazardous materials, chemicals and substances, and ensure their safe handling, movement, storage, recycling, reuse and disposal. All the applicable laws and regulations related to hazardous materials, chemicals and substances shall be strictly followed. Wastewater and Solid Waste: Wastewater and solid waste generated from operations, industrial processes and sanitation facilities are to be monitored, controlled and treated as required prior to discharge or disposal. Air Emissions: Air emissions of volatile organic chemicals, aerosols, corrosives, particulates, ozone depleting chemicals and combustion by-products generated from operations are to be characterized, monitored, controlled and treated as required prior to discharge or disposal. Minimize Waste, Maximize Recycling: Waste of all types, including water and energy, are to be reduced or eliminated at the source or by practices such as modifying production, maintenance and facility processes, materials substitution, conservation, recycling and re-using materials. Anti-Corruption Business Integrity The highest standards of integrity are to be upheld in all business interactions. Suppliers shall have a zero tolerance policy to prohibit any and all forms of bribery, corruption, extortion and embezzlement (covering promising, offering, giving or accepting any bribes). All business dealings should be transparently performed. Disclosure of Information Falsification of records or misrepresentations of conditions or practices in the supply chain are unacceptable. Intellectual property The supplier shall take appropriate steps to safeguard and maintain confidential and proprietary information of its business partners and use such information only for the purposes authorized for use by the contractual agreement. Product Quality and Safety All products and services delivered by the supplier must meet the quality and safety standards required by applicable law. When conducting business with or on behalf of IGC International, the supplier must comply with the given quality requirements. 23 We, the undersigned hereby confirm that: • We have received and taken due note of the contents of the IGC International Supplier Code of Conduct. • We are aware of all relevant laws and regulations of the countries in which our company operates. • We will report to IGC International any case of violations of the Code. • We will inform all of our employees/subcontractors of the content of this Code, and that we will ensure that they also comply with the provisions incorporated therein. • We hereby authorise IGC International or any organizations acting on behalf of IGC to carry out audits with or without notice at our premises and the business premises of our subcontractors at any time to verify compliance with the IGC Supplier Code content. Name of Company: Name and Title: Signature Company Stamp/Seal: Date & Place: This document must be signed by an authorized representative of the supplier. 24 Van Nelleweg 1, Unit 2.1.23 +31 (0)10 750 33 50 3044 BC Rotterdam igc-international.com the Netherlands compliance@igc-international.com
