13 December 2019 Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Dear Mr Secretary-General, I am pleased to confirm that FynBloem (Pty) Ltd supports the ten principles of the Global Compact on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. FynBloem have made these principles part of our strategy, culture and day-to-day operations. We communicate our commitment to our customers, suppliers and stakeholders in our annual Sustainability Report. We support public accountability and transparency and commit to produce an annual Communication on Progress (COP), which will include: • A statement signed by the chief executive expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing our ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. This is separate from this initial letter of commitment. • A description of practical actions that the company has taken or plans to undertake, to implement the Global compact principles in each of the four issue areas (human rights, labour, environment, anti-corruption). • A measurement of outcomes (the degree to which targets/performance indicators were met, or other qualitative or quantitative measurements of results). We are committed to engage in collaborative projects to advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. Yours sincerely, PIETER BEYERS VENTER (MR) CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER PO Box 18, Riviersonderend 7250 Western Cape, South Africa Tel: +27 (0) 28 0500 321 / +27 (0)21 2000 561 | Fax: +27 (0) 86 650 2495 E-mail: admin@blk.co.za Directors: PB Venter / LM Larsen No. Question Answer 1 Company/Report Profile 1.1 Name of company FYNBLOEM (PTY) LTD 1.2 Briefly describe company products, GROWING AND PACKAGING OF PROTEA FLOWERS AND BOUQUETS FOR services or other company THE EXPORT MARKET activities. 1.3 Where is the company located? RIVIERSONDEREND, WESTERN CAPE, SOUTH AFRICA How close is the company site to residential areas and nature reserves or other sensitive environments? 1.4 Reporting period (financial year 01/09/2018 – 31/08/2019 covered). 1.5 Contact person responsible for this NOLENE BOTHA (CSR & HR MANAGER) report (incl. title). 1.6 Reporting date. AUGUST 2019 1.7 Date when this report will be (or has 11 OCTOBER 2019 been) approved by the board of directors. 2 Managing Sustainability 2.1 Do you have a written sustainability Yes, we have a written sustainability policy. policy/policy? (Y/N/Under development) 2.2 In your written sustainability Human rights ☒ policy/policies, which issues are Labour rights ☒ included? Occupational health and safety ☒ Environment ☒ Climate change ☒ Community development incl. donation ☒ HIV/AIDS ☒ Corporate Governance ☒ Anticorruption and business ethics ☒ Animal welfare ☒ Other, please specify 2.3 Has your company signed up to the Yes, and we submit a COP on a regular basis. UN Global Compact? 2.4 Does the company have a We successfully passed our Global Gap audit in 2018 and the next audit has been sustainability management system scheduled for November 2019 (Y/N/Under development)? Is the management system ISO 14001 ☐ certified? SA 8000 ☐ OHSAS 18000 ☐ BSCI ☐ FSCI ☐ Rainforest Alliance ☐ Global GAP ☒ Other, please specify: We received our SIZA certificate in 2016 which is valid for 5 years. SIZA (Sustainability Initiative of South Africa) provides a platform for agricultural stakeholders to ensure ethical and environmentally sustainable trade. 2.5 Who is responsible for sustainability  Overall responsibility lies with the CEO and COO at operational level (management of  Nolene Botha – CSR & HR Manager activities and resources and delegation of tasks)? State the person’s area of responsibility (incl. title). 2.6 Who is responsible for sustainability The CEO – Pieter Beyers Venter. at the board level? 2.7 Which international standards Our current standards are all in line with the IFU standards and nothing has agreed with IFU should the changed. We are constantly challenging ourselves to better our standards and lifting company meet over time? the bar by continuously improving our PPP’s (Planet, People & Profit) 2.8 Does your company have a We are part of Hortgro and attend industry meetings and are part of several industry systematic approach in place to bodies to keep us up to date with regulations within our industry. Analysis are done ensure it keeps informed of new on a frequent basis by Flower Valley Conservation Trust and SIZA, both known and regulations, e.g. using compliance accredited bodies within the industry. 2 monitoring processes and gap analysis? 2.9 Which successes and benefits have  Better product quality resulted in product rejections going down with another your company achieved during the 18% compared to 2018 reporting period due to its  Planted 2.5 Ha with our first root stock. sustainability activities?  Upskilled several staff with courses, e.g. First aid, health & safety representatives, how to handle chemicals and driving lessons for staff assigned company vehicles.  2 Employees accompanied the CEO and Head on Commercial Dept. to the UK and The Netherlands. During this trip our Production Manager was given the opportunity to work on the pack lines at MMFlowers to gain valuable insights into the everyday workings of our client.  Water saving measures in the plantation by employing more soil probes to measure the water level of the soil.  The new nursery is in use with many advanced features.  Upskilled 5 employees by sending them to a driving school to obtain their learners license and to complete driving lessons to obtain their drivers licenses. 3 Action Plan 3.1 Briefly describe issues included in A sustainability action plan was not required by IFU. We did however produce a the Sustainability Action Plan sustainability report annually for our customers and continued our membership with required by IFU, progresses made the UN Global Compact. and any outstanding issues. You may attach a copy of the plan. 3.2 Have you planned new actions to  For 2018/9 an ergonomics reviews of the entire workplace. mitigate risks and improve your  Establish a Workers Trust. sustainability performance during  Implementation of solar panels. the next year?  Implement the M&S requirements to achieve Silver Status on How We Do Business which will affect best practises of all aspects of our business. 4 Employment Data 4.1 Number of workers at the reporting Validation date: 31 AUGUST 2019 White collar Blue collar date or as close to the reporting workers workers date as possible. Permanent male workers 7 48 Insourced male workers 0 30 The number should include workers Permanent female workers 12 53 in subsidiaries/daughter companies, Insourced female workers 1 1 which are companies that are Workers in construction activities, male + N/A N/A owned 50% or more by the female reporting company. Total number of workers: 152 Definitions: Total number of workers below the age of 25 years: 23 • Permanent workers are employed directly by the company, fulltime Percentage of women in leading position: 7% or part-time (FTE). • Insourced workers are employed by an external company (e.g. an employment agency) but perform a task which could also have been performed by the company itself. • Workers in construction activities are working with construction/establishment and/or expansion of the company (either own or through an external contractor). 4.2 Permanent worker turnover rate Total permanent staff: 101 during the reporting period. Permanent staff (Resigned / dismissed): 6 Turnover rate is the percentage of Turnover rate: 6/101 = 6% new permanent workers hired to replace permanent workers that Permanent staff (Retired / illness): 1 have left during the reporting period. Turnover rate: 1/101 = 1% Permanent staff (Absconded): 16 Turnover rate: 16/101 = 16% 4.3 If the permanent worker turnover N/A rate was over 20% during the reporting period, briefly explain why. 3 4.4 If you are reaching out to N/A smallholders, please indicate the number of smallholders that benefit from the project activities through active support, financially or otherwise to improve environmental conditions or social practices etc. Smallholder farmers are defined as marginal and sub-marginal farm households, which own and/or cultivate less than two hectares of land. 5 Compliance and Regulations 5.1 List the permits/approvals/licences Reg. no. with Date Issuing that are required to operate, the Farm Expiry date Cape Nature Issued Authority date they were obtained and the Licence to authority that issued them. FynBloem APP003982-2019 sell – CN5209.04.2019 08.04.2020 Cape Nature Sell 41-8669 Licence to FynBloem Sell Sell APP003985-2019 CULTIVATED 09.04.2019 09.04.2020 Cape Nature Cultivated CN51-418674 Licence to FynBloem export – APP003986-2019 09.04.2019 09.04.2020 Cape Nature Export CN17-418675 Licence to Bloemenkraal APP003325-2018 sell -CN5213.11.2018 17.11.2019 Cape Nature Sell 41-6661 Licence to Bloemenkraal export – APP004173-2019 22/05/2019 22.05.2020 Cape Nature Export CN17-419349 Flora Grower FynBloem AAA008-01115 004224.11.2011 No expiry date Cape Nature Grower AAA00800109 Import FynBloem licenceAPP003417-2018 29.11.2018 05.12.2019 Cape Nature Import CN30-416908 5.2 What is the status of compliance  Income Tax, Value-added Tax and Employees Tax are paid and up to date. A with legal requirements in the host tax clearance certificate is available upon request. country?  Employment Equity reports have been submitted This includes permit and reporting  Our Cape Nature permits are valid and show that our Proteas are cultivated requirements, etc. (not wild). We have copies of our suppliers' Cape Nature permits for the fynbos to make sure the permits are valid. 5.3 If your company has been subject to  Inspection by the Department of Labour on 09 September 2019 an inspection by the authorities  This audit included a … during the reporting period, state by o Occupational Health & Safety audit who and when. o Employment Equity audit, and o Compensation Fund audit 5.4 State the outcome of each  No issues were noted. inspection:  The number and nature of noncompliances with legislation  Actions that were required to remove these noncompliances.  Any unsettled matters/pending issues? 5.5 If your company has been subject to  Our overseas customers rely on good external audit results as set out above. an audit from any of your customers  Our export partner and customers request periodic documented proof of certain during the reporting period, please procedures, Due Diligence reports and copies of permits state: 4  By who?  When?  Which issues were identified? 6 Communicating Sustainability 6.1 Briefly describe the internal  Information regarding sustainability is communicated to via posters that are communication and training on displayed in all general areas. sustainability you have conducted  Managers and Team Leaders educate and train their teams on an ongoing during the reporting period. basis. • How many workers were trained? • Which issues were covered? • What was the duration of the training? 6.2 If workers participated in external There has not been any external training done, only inhouse training. training on sustainability during the reporting period. • How many participated? • Which issues were covered? • What was the duration of the training? 6.3 Does the company communicate Yes, we are a signatory of the UN Global Compact and submit our sustainability performance in an external report report annually to their database which is accessible on their webpage to the public. that is publicly available to external stakeholders? E.g. via the company’s website. 6.4 If you have received any complaints N/A by external stakeholders during the reporting period, state: • How many? • Which issues were raised? • How you have responded to these issues? 6.5 How have you promoted Sustainability issues are included as part of the business contract ☒ sustainability issues towards your with suppliers suppliers? Sustainability issues are communicated to suppliers in other ways, ☐ please specify A plan for communicating sustainability issues to suppliers is under development 6.6 If you have monitored your Our suppliers partake in the Sustainable Harvesting Program that is monitored by suppliers during the reporting Flower Valley Conservation Trust and is evaluated on a regular basis. period, briefly describe which suppliers and how you have evaluated their performance. 6.7 If you have become aware of critical N/A sustainability issues among your suppliers during the reporting period, briefly describe which suppliers, which issues and which actions were taken. 6.8 Briefly describe how you provide This kind of information are shared with stakeholders via the annual Sustainability stakeholders with access to Report that is compiled by the CSR Manager. information about the company, risks and potential sustainability impacts on the communities and your mitigation measures. 6.9 Briefly describe how you provide Concerns and complaints can be submitted telephonically, via email or personally by information on how individuals and the individual or company. Contact detail for the company is widely available via our communities, who may be Facebook page as well as telephone directories. adversely affected by the company’s activities, can submit concerns and complaints. 7 Labour Practices 7.1 Briefly describe how you ensure  Employment contracts are explained by a manager to each new employee. that your workers know their rights  Summaries of the Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Employment Equity Act and duties. and Health & Safety Act are displayed in a public area.  All company policies and procedures are available for all employees and can be obtained from their managers. 5 E.g. in contracts, employee handbook, etc. 7.2 How do you ensure an open  3 monthly Workers Committee meetings ensure open dialogue where all issues dialogue between management and are addressed, and staff representatives can enter discussion with the CEO. workers regarding labour practices?  Executive Management has weekly & monthly meetings with managers and  How was the dialogue general work issues i.e. transport, community, canteen, “friendliness” of organised? managers, uniforms, housing issues, cultural integration, public holidays,  How often were meetings general pack store issues i.e. drinking stations, caps broken, etc held?  What issues were discussed? 7.3 State the national minimum wage South African Agriculture Minimum Wage from 01/03/2019 until 28/02/2020 is set at and the basic wage you pay your R18 per hour – which translates to R3240 per month for workers on a 45-hour week. workers (not including overtime). We pay the minimum wage plus a performance incentive bonus, thus making our pay in most instances higher than the minimum wage. 7.4 What extra wages are paid for  During peak production seasons, overtime is worked (December for ±3 weeks; overtime work? March for ±2 weeks)  How many people have had  Employees are paid according to legislation (1.50 times the normal wage) excessive overtime hours (total working hours over 60 per week)?  For how many weeks have the workers had excessive overtime? 7.5 If relevant, briefly describe what you An integrated operational and stock system ensures that procurement and have done to reduce overtime. production are planned correctly. This empowers managers to manage their workers better. 7.6 If you have become aware that you No underage workers were employed during the reporting period. have hired underage workers during the reporting period, briefly describe actions taken to remedy the situation. 7.7 Briefly describe how you promote No discrimination is practised or reported by staff to management or at a Workers equal opportunity and prevent Committee meeting. This is evident by the positive report we receive from the discrimination among workers and Department of Labour and is evident in our Employment Equity report to the Dept. of any initiatives started during the last Labour. reporting period. Initiatives could include promoting gender equality and enabling qualified persons with disabilities or health conditions to gain employment opportunities. 7.8 Briefly describe initiatives to prevent Posters and information pieces are frequently put up and displayed in our canteen physical, verbal, sexual, and public, with regards to verbal, sexual and psychological harassment and abuse psychological harassment and to inform and educate staff about these matters. abuse among workers. 7.9 If you have had incidents of No incidents of harassment were reported. harassment during the reporting period, briefly describe which actions your company has taken. 7.10 If  The Housing committee does annual inspections of all housing provided to staff accommodation/dormitories/housing to identify any areas were repair work need to be done. is provided for workers, how have  Repairs and maintenance of houses are done on a continues basis by a you ensured that housing facilities dedicated team. are safe and sanitary and meet basic needs? This concerns sleeping quarters, access to kitchen, bath, toilet, security and privacy, etc. 7.11 If you register information about  We act in accordance with the Protection of Information Act. workers or monitor the workplace,  We do not intrude on staff living on the property. briefly describe how workers are  The company Internet usage policy has been communicated to all staff. informed about the information  We don’t have any cameras on the premises. registered or the purpose of the monitoring. 6 Workplace monitoring includes cameras and internet or e-mail monitoring. 7.12 If you hired temporary workers We are compliant with South African legislation and have employed many of the during the reporting period, briefly temporary staff as permanent employees and ensured equal employment describe how you ensured that they conditions. had the same basic employment benefits as permanent workers. Temporary workers may include part-time, short-term, contract and migrant workers. List the basic benefits for the worker, e.g. paid overtime, sick leave, access to canteen, health checks etc. 8 Health and Safety 8.1 Briefly describe how the health and  H&S meetings are held at least every 3 months. safety committee has worked during  Regular “walk throughs” are held by H&S committee members to inspect the the reporting period. work areas. • Number of members in the  H&S issues and solutions are reported to the Workers Committee leaders. committee?  The COO helps the H&S committee to find solutions.  How often were meetings held?  Which issues were on the agenda? 8.2 How many accidents (involving  All incidents and accidents are investigated by management and to the Health & workers) have you had during the Safety committee where preventative action is taken. reporting period? Compare with  2017/2018: 66 accidents in previous years. o 47 of these injuries were because of a vehicle accident between one of our vehicles that was transporting staff from town to work and another truck. Our driver was not at fault. o 19 injuries because of incidents or accidents in the work place.  2018/2019: 15 8.3 How much working time has been 2017/2018 2018/2019 lost due to accidents (days off 274 60 work)? Compare with accidents in (221 days was a direct result of a previous years. vehicle accident) 8.4 Briefly describe any measures  Wrist guards to help bouquet staff who need to hold heavy bouquets during taken to reduce the risk of future peak production times. accidents during the reporting  All production staff use gloves period.  Safety shoes are provided to employees.  Training 8.5 Briefly describe your emergency  We have an evacuation plan displayed in prominent places in the pack house. preparedness and response system  We have trained evacuation marshals, as well as fire marshals. and state if your workers have been  We have first aiders with the right equipment and spill kits for the chemical trained or the system has been rooms. reviewed during the reporting period  We have fire lines and a sprinkler system for the plantations. to ensure an effective response.  All staff are trained on their first day of employment and periodically thereafter.  Staff dealing with hazardous substances receive external chemical handling Such a system includes training. identification of hazardous  We do external fire, first aid, tractor driving courses and all required health & operations, an assessment of the safety training provided by external companies. potential consequences on human health and the environment and mitigation measures to be taken if an accident occurs. 8.6 Have you reviewed your emergency Yes, this gets done on a regular basis and random emergency drills are performed response system or performed an throughout the year. emergency drill during the reporting period? 8.7 Have you conducted a Workplace Yes, this is performed by the Health & Safety committee every 3 months. They Risk Assessments during the identify any possible risk areas, and this gets addressed by management. reporting period? 8.8 Briefly describe how you reduce  We have one noisy area where plant material is cut to size and where earplugs exposure to noise, dust or are provided. chemicals in the production area.  Dust is not an issue in the pack house. State results of any indoor noise,  Staff that work with the leave strippers are supplied with safety goggles to dust or chemical measurements protect their eyes. 7 taken during the reporting period and compare with previous year. 8.9 How do you ensure adequate  Requirements such as good ventilation and lighting, adequate sanitary facilities, workplace conditions? storage facilities and canteen are in place. Adequate conditions may require  Freezer jackets and pants are provided even though we don't operate in suitable temperature, lighting, freezing conditions. washing and sanitary facilities for  Aprons are provided to prevent bouquet workers' clothing from becoming wet. both genders, safe drinking water food storage and eating facilities, etc. 8.10 Briefly describe how you minimize We are conscious of ergonomics and new staff are taught how to lift and correctly heavy manual lifting or multiple use their bodies when working in the plantation. Pack house staff get regular rest repeatable movements and any periods where workstations have been ergonomically designed. new actions taken during the reporting period. 8.11 If you have secured any machinery  Our machinery has been Global Gap inspected (and inspected by Health & and/or replaced dangerous Safety officers) and comply with Health & Safety legislation. machinery with potentially less  We have artisans and mechanics on site to repair machinery before they can harmful machinery during the cause harm. reporting period, briefly describe  We have safety signs on machines and walls where appropriate. what you have done to install safety measures. 8.12 Briefly describe what PPE (Personal  All required PPE is issued, e.g. gum boots, gloves, pruning sheers, ear and eye Protection Equipment) is provided protection, welding equipment and new staff is trained on their correct use. and to how many. How many  Annual risk assessments are carried out in line with Global Gap requirements workers have been trained in  All staff who work with chemicals receive external training on correct use and following safety instructions during we have procedures in place with regards PPE use and disposal. the reporting period? 8.13 If you have carried out any other Course Institute Attendees training relating to workplace health and safety during the reporting Fire Level 1 training Grabouw Skills Centre 8 period, state how many workers Safe handling: orchard chemicals Two-a-Day Group Training Centre 5 have been trained and in which issues. Transporting Dangerous Goods S.A. Fire & Medical Academy 1 First Aid level 2 Grabouw Skills Centre 4 Health & Safety Representatives Grabouw Skills Centre 6 Tractor Operator course Grabouw Skills Centre 3 8.14 If HIV/AIDS is a significant issue in  Condoms are provided in restrooms. the host country, how have you  Posters and information pieces are continuously posted in the canteen and on contributed to preventing the spread all notice boards to educate employees about different aspects of HIV of HIV/AIDS and the stigmatizing prevention. effects of the disease during the reporting period? Briefly describe your activities. Activities can include offering HIV/AIDS testing, antiretroviral treatment to infected workers and information campaigns about HIV/AIDS. 8.15 If you have had security None were reported. arrangements at your site during the reporting period, briefly describe any security-related incidents, including complaints from staff or local communities related to the conduct of security personnel. 9 Environment and Climate 9.1 If you are cultivating land for crop or The farm is in total 244.61 hectares, of which 115 hectares are planted. plant production, please indicate the number of hectares the company controls 9.2 If you are cultivating crop for n/a production of animal feed, please indicate the number of hectares the company controls 8 9.3 If any environmental incidents No incidents were reported. occurred during the reporting period, briefly describe each incident including date, nature, and extent and remediation measures taken. Environmental incidents include fires, explosions, significant spills or contamination of soil, water, groundwater, buildings or other structures. 9.4 Briefly describe any measures  Currently using power from the grid. implemented to increase energy  Our goal is to implement solar panels for the pack house. efficiency.  The pack house is equipped with many power saving features, like energy efficient lights that dim or switch off automatically. Heat from refrigeration is used to heat underfloor instead of air conditioning. The pack house was designed to optimizing power saving in all aspects and received awards for its sustainability in building design. 9.5 Quantify the energy consumption  Currently using power from the grid. and compare with the energy consumption of the previous year. Total power consumption (kWh): State energy source if possible. 2016 – 854122 2017 – 717541 2018 – 799299 2019 – 768090 9.6 If your company produce more than 2017 2018 2019 25,000 tonnes of CO2 equivalent Direct CO2 emissions 728,30 811,29 789,20 annually, specify direct emissions Indirect CO2 emissions N/A N/A N/A from the facilities owned or controlled within the physical company boundary as well as indirect emissions associated with the off-site production of energy used by the company during the reporting period. 9.7 If hazardous substances are used,  All harmful material has been phased out prior to the reporting period, as per briefly describe how you ensure Global Gap and Marks & Spencer requirement. As new EU requirements safe storage, handling, production, emerge, we shall address the challenges with expert consultants. use and disposal. Hazardous  We do not use harmful material in the pack house because the risk to our reed substances may include asbestos, bed recycling process. heavy metals, organic solvents, cooling agents etc. State if any substances have been substituted. 9.8 Briefly describe any measures  We have water rights to a dam/river in our mountain. taken to reduce water consumption  Systems are in place to reduce water consumption in the plantations, such as and, if possible, state the an advanced irrigation system and probes to detect moisture in the soil to percentage of volume of water prevent over watering. recycled/reused. Compare with  We have meters on water extraction points. Usage of the natural resource is previous years. recorded by the Municipality that issued the water extraction permit to ensure we stay within permitted usage.  Plantation irrigation system is computerised, and usage records can be extracted.  Monitoring of water usage within the pack house is being implemented and live data. 9.9 Briefly describe any measures to A recycling system has been put into place and staff participated in information reduce non-hazardous waste and, if sessions to teach them more about recycling. possible, state the percentage of waste recycled/reused by waste type. Compare with previous years. 9.10 Briefly describe any measures to  Systems are in place to reduce water consumption in the plantations, such as reduce waste water emissions, an advanced irrigation system and probes to detect moisture in the soil to including optimizing production prevent over watering. technology and waste water  We have meters on water extraction points. Usage of the natural resource is treatment before discharge. recorded by the Municipality that issued the water extraction permit to ensure Compare with previous years. we stay within permitted usage.  Plantation irrigation system is computerised, and usage records can be extracted. 9  Monitoring of water usage within the pack house is being implemented and live data. 9.11 Briefly describe any measures to There are no air emissions produced by the pack house. Air emissions come from reduce air emissions (substances, transport (e.g. tractors). Where possible smaller and newer tractors are used to noise, odour, light and vibrations), prevent unnecessary emissions. including optimizing production technology and treatment of pollutants before they are emitted. Compare with previous years. 9.12 If workers have been trained in 8 Employees were trained in firefighting and 5 employees were trained on how to environmental matters during the safely handle chemicals in the plantation. reporting period, state how many workers have been trained and in which issues. 9.13 Briefly describe any mitigation We continuously strive to clearing the farm of invasive species which is beneficial to measures to protect and conserve saving water and preserving the indigenous vegetation of this area. biodiversity. Mitigation measures could include establishing biological corridors and restoring habitats. 10 Community Engagement 10.1 How have you as a company  We support the Mandela Day initiative in Riviersonderend and in 2019 we participated in activities with the collaborated with the local SAP (South African Police) branch and Badisa (NGO local community? focused on social work in the community). Soup and sandwiches were provided to about 400 community members which included disabled people, the elderly Activities can include education and and children. training; cultural, health and  We are involved with the local Police department to set up a trauma centre for infrastructure development; adults and children that is going through a traumatic experience. contracting with local business partners and fostering entrepreneurship; and donations or voluntary work benefitting the local community. 10.2 If you have provided training, N/A education, mentorship programmes or other activities to empower youth during the reporting period, briefly describe your activities. 10.3 If you have conducted activities to N/A empower women in the local community during the reporting period, briefly describe your activities. Activities could include specific health, safety and well-being issues for women, education, training, professional development as well as innovative approaches to circumvent gender-based constraints to participation and leadership e.g. child care services. 10.4 If your operations may negatively N/A impact livelihoods or the access of local communities to resources or cultural heritage sites, briefly describe how you have engaged with affected groups and your activities to prevent, reduce, mitigate and remedy the impacts during the reporting period. Affected groups include women, tenants, settlers, minorities, indigenous peoples and other vulnerable groups. 10.5 If your company’s operations N/A involve resettlement, briefly describe any resettlement actions during the reporting period. Who 10 were affected by the displacement, and how were they compensated? 11 Corporate Governance 11.1 Does your company have a Yes, we abide by the King 4. corporate governance (CG) policy and rules of procedure for the board? 11.2 What issues, if any, have arisen in There have been no such issues. the business, ownership, management or governance of the company that could call for a reevaluation of the governance framework agreed at the time of investment? 11.3 Have the other parties (Danish Yes, they have. partner / project sponsor, project company, others) lived up to expectations regarding their understanding of CG and support of the project company’s CG? 11.4 Do you regard the current Yes, to all. governance framework as fit-forpurpose and ready to adapt to the project company’s future needs? a. Board of Directors b. Internal controls c. Transparency d. Shareholder rights 11.5 What changes will be needed for N/A the CG of the project company to develop in step with the company’s evolution? a. Board of Directors b. Internal controls c. Transparency d. Shareholder rights 11.6 Has your company prepared a N/A Corporate Governance Action Plan? (A Corporate Governance Action Plan will be required by new IFU projects from January 2017) 11.7 Briefly describe progress made and N/A any outstanding issues from the Corporate Governance Action Plan if you have one. You may attach a copy of the plan. 12 Anti-corruption and Business Ethics 12.1 Briefly describe your anti-corruption We have a zero tolerance for corruption and unethical practices within the business. policy and instructions to avoid Policies have been put in place and an accredited Chartered Accounted is employed corruption. on a full-time basis to manage the business’ finances. Audit are done annually by an external certified auditing company and findings are presented during the annual financial board meeting. 12.2 Briefly describe which risks you face None of getting involved in corruption? 12.3 How have you communicated your Workers are all given the company’s policies and procedures during their induction anti-corruption initiatives and and the policies are all readily available to any employee. Each manager has a staff disciplinary procedures for violafile with all policies and procedures in. tions of the anti-corruption policy to your workers? 12.4 How many workers have been There has been no need for such training during this period. trained to avoid and handle corruption and bribes including facilitation payment during the reporting period? 12.5 How do you monitor compliance External audits are done annually by a certified / accredited auditing company. with your anti-corruption There was no corruption found within the company. procedures? 11 State the outcome of any internal or external audits during the reporting period. 12.6 Briefly describe how you inform A detailed report is presented to all business partners during a board meeting where relevant business partners about the auditing company presents their findings. your anti-corruption policy. Relevant business partners include agents, intermediaries, consultants, contractors, suppliers, local/national authorities etc. 12
