Shin-Etsu Chemical Co., Ltd. Contents of Shin-Etsu Chemical Sustainability Report 2019 Top Message ……………………………………………………………………………………… 1 About This Site …………………………………………………………………………………… 3 Contribution examples of the SDGs with the raw materials, technology and products of the Shin-Etsu Group ………………… 4 Shin-Etsu Group's products which contribute to the solution of the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) ………………… 5 Management Shin-Etsu Group Business Principle/Basic CSR Policy ………………………………… 14 CSR Promotion Structure …………………………………………………………………… 15 Corporate Governance ………………………………………………………………………… 19 Risk Management ……………………………………………………………………………… 22 Shin-Etsu Group Key CSR Issues Specifying Shin-Etsu Group Key CSR Issues ……………………………………………… 24 The foundation of all activities: legal compliance, fair corporate activities ………… 26 Key Issue 1 : Employees and contractor health and safety …………………………… 28 Key Issue 2 : Energy-saving, resource-saving and the reduction of the environmental impact …………………… 32 Key Issue 3 : Product quality improvements and product safety control ………… 51 Key Issue 4 : Promoting CSR procurement and the diversiﬁcation of supply sources …………………………… 53 Key Issue 5 : Respect for human rights, the development of human resources and the promotion of diversity ………………………………………… 57 Key Issue 6 : Respect for and protection of intellectual property …………………… 64 Key Issue 7 : Contribution to industry and social initiatives …………………………… 66 Key Issue 8 : Accurate and timely information disclosure and communication with stakeholders ……………………………… 68 ESG Data …………………………………………………………………………………………… 71 Responsible Care Audit (only Japanese available) …………………………………… 77 This report excerpted from the Sustainability Site as of June 2019. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 CSR Key Issue 1 Targets and Results The safety targets and results for FY2018 and safety targets for FY2019 are as listed below. Item Priority Issues (Target) Implementation Status for Fiscal 2018 Evaluation Planned Implementation Items for Fiscal 2019 • Communication by the plant manager and division heads of their commitment and active involvement • Communication by the plant manager and division heads of their commitment and active (ongoing) 1. Continuous improvement and involvement • Appropriate implementation of the PDCA cycle based on the health and safety management implementation of the health and 1 • Appropriate implementation of the PDCA cycle based on the health and safety management system ◎ system(ongoing) safety management system • Promotion of effective safety activities through substantial discussions during internal audits • Promotion of effective safety activities through substantial internal audits (audit the effectiveness of PDCA Management System cycle and safety activities) • Appropriate follow-up on the matters pointed out during environmental safety audits • Appropriate follow-up on the matters pointed out during environmental safety audits (ongoing) 2. Qualitative improvement of environmental safety audits • Qualitative improvement of environmental safety audits at affiliated companies in the plant area ◎ • Qualitative improvement of environmental safety audits at affiliated companies in the plant area (ongoing) • Active involvement at overseas manufacturing bases through guidance and auditing • Active involvement at overseas manufacturing bases through guidance and auditing(ongoing) 2 2 3. Thorough change • Confirmation of application of MOC rules at the plants and thorough compliance with them • Confirmation of application of MOC rules at the plants and thorough compliance with them (ongoing) management 3 ◎ 3 • Risk assessment at the time of 4M change • Risk assessment at the time of 4M change(ongoing) 1. Zero serious accident • Achieved target of zero serious accident ◎ • Zero serious accident • Process risk assessment, including periodic reviews • Safety measures for non-routine work and unsafe operations, as well as continuing to consider • Implementation of planned process risk assessment(ongoing) accident trouble cases • Safety measures for non-routine work and unsafe operations, as well as continuing to consider accident 2. Facility and process safety • Obtain and examine information on internal and external accidents and disasters related to one's ○ trouble cases (ongoing) improvement Process Safety and Prevention Plan division • Maintenance and utilization of safety basic information • Investigation of application of guidelines for the handling of combustible powder and liquids • Proper operation of alarms and interlocks • Application of Security Evaluation System by the Japan Safety Competency Center • Thorough investigation of equipment trouble causes, recurrence prevention and design technology • Thorough investigation of equipment trouble causes, recurrence prevention and design technology 3. Improvement of facilities and improvement improvement (ongoing) ○ maintenance management • Implementation and improvement of equipment maintenance (conservation management for aging • Improvement of equipment maintenance (Construction of function maintenance and management method piping and equipment through activities like planned repairs) of safety equipment and safety system and planned repair of old pipes and equipment) • Consider estimating and minimizing damage if the worst situations such as serious accidents and • Consider estimating and minimizing damage if the worst situations such as serious accidents and massive massive earthquakes occur earthquakes occur(ongoing) 4. Reliable emergency response ○ • Maintenance of emergency-response criteria / manuals • Maintenance of emergency-response criteria/manuals (ongoing) • Review and implement business continuity planning training • Review and implement business continuity planning training (ongoing) • Strengthen prevention measures against external intruders • Strengthen prevention measures against external intruders (ongoing) 5. Plant security enhancement • Provide visitors to the plants with risk information and inform them of evacuation methods if an ○ • Provide visitors to the plants with risk information and inform them of evacuation methods if an accident accident or disaster occurs or disaster occurs(ongoing) 1. Achieve zero labor accidents • The Shin-Etsu Group: four people requiring an absence of a day or × • Achieve zero labor accidents requiring an absence of a day or more • Shin-Etsu Chemical: one people more 2. Rate of labor accidents not • The Shin-Etsu Group achieved its goal with a rate of 0.74 accompanied by an of absence a × • Rate of labor accidents not accompanied by an absence of a day or more: 0.5 or less • Shin-Etsu Chemical: 0.67 day or more: 0.5 or less 3. Human error reduction • Prevent accidents caused by human error ○ • Prevention of accidents and disasters due to human errors (ongoing) • Promoting “zero accident” activities (practiced Hazard prediction activities, pointing and calling, and • Promoting “zero accident” activities (practiced Hazard prediction activities, pointing and calling, and 5S 4 5S activities) activities) (ongoing) • Implemented improvement and promotion of close-call incident proposals and improvement • Activation and promotion of close-call incident proposals and improvement proposals (set promotion goals) 4. Improve work safety ○ proposals (set promotion goals) (ongoing) • Implemented assured horizontal expansion of accident examples of the Group companies • Implemented assured horizontal expansion of accident examples of the Group companies (ongoing) • Cultivate a safety culture in which rules and manuals are followed • Cultivate a safety culture in which rules and manuals are followed(ongoing) Occupational Safety 5. Review and reorganize work • Implement of planned review of work manual maintenance • Implement of planned review and content enhancement of work manual maintenance manuals and ensure strict • Work manual content enhancement ◎ (routine, non-routine, emergency response etc.) compliance • Confirm the compliance of work manuals • Confirm the compliance of work manuals • Implement work risk assessment based on plans 5 • Implement work risk assessment based on plans(Central Labor Accident Prevention Association method Risk assessment as stipulated in the Industrial Safety and Health Act 6 or procedure HAZOP ) 6. Work risk assessment Risk assessment for dangerous and non-routine work at one's workplace ○ Risk assessment as stipulated in the Industrial Safety and Health Act Appropriate reﬂection of risk assessment results in future work Risk assessment for dangerous and non-routine work at one's workplace Improvement of work risk assessment skills • Clarify work instructions and procedures and implement hazard prediction activities • Clarify work instructions and procedures and implement hazard prediction activities (ongoing) 7. Safety measures of • Apply thorough construction rules • Clarification and solid performance of implementation matters such as construction start permission, construction and non-routine ○ • Clarification of responsibilities of divisions that request construction work and those which perform it, safety management during construction, delivery, completion confirmation, etc. work and reliable implementation of work for which they are responsible • Providing safety information to construction contractors, thorough education of plant rules, etc. • Plan promotion of education and training (ongoing) • Planned implementation of education and training 8. Training and drill promotion ○ • Promote acquisition of qualifications (ongoing) • Promote acquisition of qualifications • Active introduction of awards and prize systems for voluntary safety activities • Stronger guidance for and follow-up on safety management at companies to which, as a • Active involvement in safety management at companies to which, as a manufacturer, the Company manufacturer, the Company outsources its operations 9. Ensuring subcontracting safety ○ outsources its operations • Provide and review safety information such as the results of work environment measurements, • Implementation of sufficient safety education danger and hazardous information (SDS) and work manuals • Implemented working environment measurements and promote working environment • Implemented working environment measurements and promote working environment improvements improvements based on the results based on the results (ongoing) 1. Create and maintain a • Implement chemical substance handling education and strict wearing of chemical protective • Implement chemical substance handling education and strict wearing of chemical protective equipment as Occupational health comfortable workplace equipment as well as confirmation of compliance status for wearing protective equipment ◎ well as confirmation of compliance status for wearing protective equipment (ongoing) environment • Appropriate implementation under the Industrial Safety and Health Law • Appropriate implementation under the Industrial Safety and Health Law (ongoing) • Appropriate reporting, communication, and consultation, as well as promotion of good • Appropriate reporting, communication, and consultation, as well as promotion of good communication communication(ongoing) • Implement concrete guidance, etc., and effective utilization of health check results • Implement concrete guidance, etc. and effective utilization of health check results (ongoing) 2. Promote physical and mental • Appropriate compliance with additional inspection criteria due to regulatory amendments ○ • Appropriate compliance with additional inspection criteria due to regulatory amendments (ongoing) health wellbeing • Promotion of specific activities to build mental and physical health (such as stress check) • Promotion of specific activities to build mental and physical health (ongoing) 1 PDCA cycle One of the method to smoothly carry out management tasks such as production control and quality control in business activities. To improve business operating continually by repeating the four steps such as Plan (P) → Do (D) → Check (C) → Act (A). 2 MOC Management of change 3 4M It is the first letter M of four words for man, machines, media and management. 4 5S activities It is the first letter S of five Japanese words for seiri seiton (organize and order things), seiso (cleaning), seiketsu (cleanliness), and shitsuke (bringing-up). 5 Central Labor Accident Prevention Association A corporation for the purpose of public interest established in 1979 with the approval of the Minister of Labor (currently: Minister of Health, Labor and Welfare) under the Labor Accident Prevention Group Act. It aims to improve safety and health and to eliminate occupational accidents through promotion of voluntary occupational accident prevention activities by business owners. 6 HAZOP Hazard and Operability Study. Standard process hazard analysis methods in the chemical process industry. * Evaluation standards ◎: Goal achieved ○: Goal basically achieved △: 50% achieved ×: Far from achieved 31 1/1 Shin-Etsu Chemical Co., Ltd. 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 CSR Key Issues 2 Targets and Results The FY2018 targets and results and FY2019 targets for environmental protection and management of chemical substances are as listed below. Item Priority Issues (Target) Implementation Status for Fiscal 2018 Evaluation Planned Implementation Items for Fiscal 2019 1. Continuous improvement and • Set qualitative plans to meet environmental challenges • Set qualitative plans to meet environmental challenges (ongoing) implementation of the • Implement plans and achieve goals without fail through activities • Implement plans and achieve goals without fail through activities environmental management leveled throughout the year ◎ leveled throughout the year (ongoing) Management System system • Conduct substantial internal audits • Conduct substantial internal audits (ongoing) • Appropriate follow-up on the matters pointed out during • Appropriate follow-up on the matters pointed out during environmental environmental safety audits safety audits 2. Qualitative improvement of • Qualitative improvement of environmental safety audits for affiliated • Qualitative improvement of environmental safety audits for affiliated environmental safety audits companies at the plant area ◎ companies at the plant area • Active involvement at overseas manufacturing bases through • Active involvement at overseas manufacturing bases through guidance guidance and auditing and auditing 1. Zero environmental accidents • Achieved target of zero environmental accidents ◎ • Zero environmental accidents 2. Thorough environmental • Continued appropriate compliance with environmental laws and • Appropriate compliance with environmental laws and regulations management regulations ◎ （ongoing） 3. Promotion of energy savings (Reduce energy consumption by • The Shin-Etsu Group: Reduced by 2.2% annually on average • Reduce energy consumption by an average annual rate of 1% per unit an average annual rate of 1% • Shin-Etsu Chemical: Reduced by 3.7% annually on average ◎ production per unit production) • The Group reduced to 52.8% and the Company 47.9% compared to 4. Reducing greenhouse gas • Reduction to 45% of 1990 level in intensity by fiscal 2025 fiscal 1990 emissions • Periodic inspection based on the Act on Rational Use and Proper • Periodic inspection based on the Act on Rational Use and Proper ○ (Intensity reduction to 54% of Management of Fluorocarbons and reporting to the national government Management of Fluorocarbons and reporting to the national Environmental conservation 1990 level by fiscal 2025) on the amount of leakage calculated (ongoing) government on the amount of leakage calculated 5. Reduce waste • Promote achievement of zero waste emissions (waste to landfill ratio (Achieve zero waste emissions • The Shin-Etsu Group: Landfill waste to total waste ratio of 1.54％ △ to 1% or less) (waste to landfill ratio to 1% or • Shin-Etsu Chemical: Landfill waste to total waste ratio of 1.54％ • Promotion of waste generation reduction through intensity unit less)) • Reduced at an annualized rate of 1.4% for BOD1 • Incresed at an annualized rate of 23.0% for soot • Regular review and strict compliance with specific facility using 6. Reduced emissions of • Reduced at an annualized rate of 9.9% for SOx hazardous substances pertaining to the Water Quality Pollution Control substances causing water • Regular review and strict compliance with specific facility using Act and installation standards for designated storage facilities pollution or air pollution hazardous substances pertaining to the Water Quality Pollution △ （ongoing） (Reduction in intensity at Control Act and installation standards for designated storage facilities • Promotion of separation of process wastewater and rainwater annualized rate of 1%) • Promotion of separation of process wastewater and rainwater discharged (including cooling water) and the laying of pipes installed in discharged (including cooling water) and the laying of pipes installed the rainwater drainage way on the ground (ongoing) in the rainwater drainage way on the ground 7. Reduction in water withdrawals • The Shin-Etsu Group: reduced at an annualized rate of 6.6％ • Reduction in intensity at an annualized rate of 1% (Reduction in intensity at an • Shin-Etsu Chemical: reduced at an annualized rate of 7.1％ ◎ • Plan and implement measures for improving recycling water ratio annualized rate of 1%) • Thorough management of permitted production volumes • Thorough management of permitted production volumes (confirmed) 1. Thorough new chemical (confirmed) and production results and production results（ongoing） substance management • Communicated reporting of harmful substance information, etc., at ◎ • Communicated reporting of harmful substance information, etc., at the Chemical substance management the time of acquisition time of acquisition（ongoing） • Responded to revisions and strict compliance with the Chemical • Respond to revisions and strict compliance with Chemical Substances Substances Control Law2, Industrial Safety and Health Act, PRTR Control Law, Industrial Safety and Health Act, PRTR Law, and Poisonous 2. Compliance with legal and Law3, and Poisonous and Deleterious Substances Control Act and Deleterious Substances Control Act（ongoing） other requirements for chemical ◎ • Compliance with overseas laws and regulations （ongoing） • Strict compliance with overseas laws and regulations substance control • Implement control of PCB waste and dispose required by the • Implement control of PCB waste and dispose required by the deadline deadline (Deadline: 2020) (Deadline: 2022) 3. Information disclosure on the • Information disclosure and awareness raising of substances handled • Confirmation of well-known situations and information provision related harmfulness of chemical ○ by contractors and subcontractors to substances handled by contractors and subcontractors（ongoing） substances 1 BOD (Biochemical Oxygen Demand) Biochemical oxygen consumption. The amount of oxygen required when decomposing contaminants in the water by microorganisms. This indicates the degree of water pollution. 2 Chemical Substances Control Law Short for the “Act on the Evaluation of Chemical Substances and Regulation of Their Manufacture, etc.” A law intended to prevent environmental pollution by chemical substances that can be harmful to human health or to ecosystems. 3 PRTR Law Short for the “Act on Confirmation, etc. of Release Amounts of Specific Chemical Substances in the Environment and Promotion of Improvements to the Management Thereof.” A law intended to promote improved self-directed control of chemical substances by business operators, in order to prevent the risk of damage to the environment. * Intensity unit A measure calculated from the production volume of a reference product. * Average annual rate for implementation Average annual reduction rate from fiscal 2015 to fiscal 2018 * Evaluation standards ◎: Goal achieved ○: Goal basically achieved △: 50% achieved ×: Far from achieved 50 1/1 Shin-Etsu Chemical Co., Ltd. 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 62 63 64 65 66 67 68 69 70 71 72 73 74 75 76 77 www.shinetsu.co.jp
