Chapter of the Annual Report 2018 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report Vontobel uses only recycled paper for printing. It takes about 1.5 times less energy and 2.5 times less water to produce recycled paper than it does to produce paper from fresh fiber. Recycled paper also cuts greenhouse gas emissions by more than 20 %. We offset the remaining emissions with various CO2 projects around the world. Further information: vontobel.com/sustainability Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability 4 Foreword 5 Sustainable Investing 12 Economic Sustainability 14 Environmental Sustainability 17 Social Sustainability 22 General Disclosures 27 GRI Content Index 30 UN Global Compact: Activities and Results 4 Foreword Vontobel achieves milestones in technologies from the international data specialist Blancco corporate responsibility and are used to clear the data storage media on these computers. sustainability We have set ourselves a number of goals for 2019. With an In 2018, Vontobel reached a number of important mileadditional seven locations through the acquisition of stones in the areas of corporate responsibility and sustainNotenstein La Roche, Vontobel will now be able to serve ability. The international sustainability rating agency clients from 13 locations in Switzerland. We will extend the ISS-oekom rated our sustainability performance for the gathering of environmental data to these new locations in first time and awarded us “Prime” status – meaning that 2019. Based on the recommendations of the Task Force Vontobel ranks among the top 6 % in our peer group of 44 on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), we will asset managers worldwide. The methodology used by also begin working on a scenario analysis for Vontobel to ISS-oekom in its assessments is among the strictest. identify climate change-related opportunities and risks for Vontobel received a particularly high score in the following our business and determine any recommended courses of categories: Range of sustainable investment offerings; action. volume of sustainable assets under management; data and IT security; adherence with compliance regulation; This Sustainability Report is based on the new GRI Stanand shareholder structure. dards. We have taken the transition to these Standards as an opportunity to realign the report. Going forward, the The Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) – an initiadocument is designed for analysts who want to obtain key tive launched by the United Nations – also awarded us an information and to easily gain an overview of our engageexcellent score for our sustainable investment strategies ments. Information about our latest projects and activities in 2018: Vontobel outperformed the benchmark in six of is available at: www.vontobel.com/responsibility. the seven modules assessed. Our score, which far exceeded the average rating, is confirmation of our expertise in the field of sustainable investing, which Vontobel has been building and continuously expanding since the 1990s. Our volume of assets invested according to sustainability criteria grew further during the reporting year: As of 31.12.2018, Vontobel managed CHF 23.3 billion of sustainable assets, an increase of almost 70 %. Dr Zeno Staub, CEO Vontobel Vontobel offers sustainable investment solutions as a key part of our product range. Foresight and ownership are the hallmarks of our approach to business – as reflected by the fact that Vontobel is one of the founding members of the Swiss Climate Foundation, which celebrated its tenth anniversary in 2018. We intensified our communications relating to the Climate Foundation in connection with this milestone. We are convinced that we can only achieve sustainable development by working together ISS-oekom awards “Prime” status to Vontobel with our partners. To promote environmental sustainability, Vontobel joined forces with the charitable foundation “AfB social & green IT” in 2018 to introduce a comprehensive computer recycling scheme in order to reduce our environmental footprint. In preparation for the Windows 10 migration, we had Above average PRI rating to replace almost 2,000 desktop computers, which we subsequently donated to “AfB social & green IT”. For more than a decade, the foundation has been selling high-quality corporate IT equipment to private individuals and charitable organizations at affordable prices. ISO-certified 5 Sustainable Investing Product portfolio active engagement and voting, thematic sustainability investments, and impact investing. 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Vontobel has been committed to value-oriented and far—— Investment solutions sighted investing for generations. As a pioneer in this field, Our portfolio management and investment advisory offerwe have been offering our clients a wide range of sustaining incorporates sustainable investment solutions aimed able investment solutions since the 1990s. For a wealth specifically at private clients. One example is our sustainand asset manager, the consideration of environmental, able portfolio management mandate, which invests social and governance (ESG) factors in the investment according to sustainability criteria and is diversified across business is a key part of a comprehensive sustainability various asset classes and sustainability approaches. It is strategy. This reflects the fact that the integration of susoffered as a standard solution. Sound, long-term strategic tainability criteria into the product and services portfolio is asset allocation provides a robust basis for this mandate. a very effective lever when it comes to fostering sustainWe also cover “high conviction” themes (e.g. healthy living able development. and clean tech). A dedicated portfolio management team is responsible for managing the mandates. Our relationship All three divisions (Wealth Management, Asset Managemanagers conduct personal consultations with clients to ment, Investment Banking) offer sustainable investment periodically discuss the development of the portfolio. solutions and advice in one form or another and cooperate closely in this area. The aim is for clients to be able to genIn the area of investment advisory, we offer clients the erate a financial return while also contributing to sustainopportunity – based on our sustainability universe – to able development. Here, our clients can select investment invest in companies that meet our sustainability criteria. themes that reflect their own values and investment objecOn the basis of our sustainability research, our relationship tives. managers can filter the investment universe using a Webbased tool to identify sustainable stocks. This allows them 103-2 The management approach and its components to compile sustainable portfolios more efficiently and to No investments in controversial weapons provide our clients with appropriate advice about sustainAll our investments have to fulfil certain minimum requireable stocks. ments. Cluster munitions and land mines are banned by international conventions. In 2011, Vontobel therefore In the area of pension provision, we give our clients the approved a Group-wide policy that prohibits investments opportunity to invest through our cooperation partners in in companies that manufacture these types of arms. Strininvestment funds that combine the goals of capital presergent processes ensure that no manufacturers of cluster vation and capital growth with ethical, environmental, and munitions and land mines are included in our investment social aspects. At the end of 2018, we also launched an funds, discretionary mandates or investment recommenactively managed open-end investment product, which dations. invests in companies offering sustainable products and services that minimize or eliminate problems. Thus they Our guidelines on cluster bombs and landmines can be create a positive environmental and social impact. The found here: www.vontobel.com/principles-policies. product focuses on the four themes of healthcare, education, poverty, and environment, and it is globally diversiWealth Management fied. Stock selection is based on fundamental analysis Our last client survey in January 2017 clearly showed that produced by Vontobel Swiss Equity Research, the Vontobel sustainable investing is becoming an increasingly importGlobal Quality Achievers Model, and external research ant topic among private clients. A total of 63 % of our cliproviders. The analysis of ESG factors is based on ESG ents are seeking sustainable investment opportunities – research produced by Vontobel Asset Management, as with almost 30 % indicating that for them, the topic is an well as by external research providers such as Sustainalytabsolute must. The consideration of personal values and ics and Asset4. The ESG filter criteria focus on minimizing the assumption of responsibility towards society and the existing and potential ESG risks and controversial factors environment play an important role in this context. As a as well as on criteria that are designed to generate positive result, new criteria for sustainable investing were defined environmental and social impacts. in Wealth Management in 2017 to facilitate a broad range of sustainable investments, such as approaches based on exclusion criteria, ESG best-in-class, ESG integration, 6 In addition, Vontobel has developed a concept for Impact edge about sustainable investing and the expansion of our Investing, which we define as an investment that is expertise in this field across the whole of Wealth Manageintended to resolve a specific problem or generate a conment. In 2018, a special “Lunch & Learn” presentation was crete and measurable social or environmental impact, carried out that centered on the motivation of private while also generating a financial return. Our five-step investors to invest sustainably and the development of investment process takes account of the individual susvarious investment approaches. tainability wishes and goals of our clients when determining the composition of the portfolio. We offer our clients Sustainable investing was also one of the topics covered in the option of performing their own active engagement and the First Week Entry Training for new employees in 2018. voting and we recommend selected partners such as This induction program, which lasts several days, allows Ethos upon request. new employees in Vontobel Wealth Management to get to know the company and ensures they are ideally prepared —— Investment communications for their challenging new role. In 2018, we once again used a variety of communication channels – such as the Internet, social media, newspapers, —— Outlook and magazines – to keep our clients informed about the In 2019, we will focus on expanding investment opportunitopic of sustainability. This included an introduction to the ties and on further developing the impact investing con“sustainable value creation” megatrend in our monthly cept, as well as organizing client events on the topic of Investors’ Outlook. In addition, our dedicated sustainabilsustainability. We are also planning to introduce the online ity specialists published articles on “Plastic in the oceans”, training tool developed by the Swiss Sustainable Finance “Impact investing – illusion or reality?” and “Sustainable association at Vontobel. In cooperation with Vontobel value creation”, which met with a positive response from Asset Management, we plan to develop an app that presclients. You can find the Investors’ Outlook here: www. ents appropriate investment solutions based on the values vontobel.com/insights. and financial objectives of clients and provides further information on the definition of ESG and research about The Wealth Management Expert Circle Sustainable Investsustainability topics. ing provides a platform for a regular dialogue about sustainability topics and the expansion of our range of client Further information on Vontobel Wealth Management can services. The Expert Circle is also designed to ensure the be found at: www.vontobel.com/wm. transfer of knowledge with a view to continuously promoting the topic of sustainability within our organization. We Asset Management can thus ensure that this subject remains a focal point Our goal is to help our clients to invest according to their within our client communications. ethical values while generating higher returns and reducing portfolio risk. As we are a global asset manager, our —— Training and education clients can benefit from our long track record in sustainThe knowledge of our employees is the most important able investing dating back to the 1990s. factor determining Vontobel’s success, stability, and our ability to operate effectively in the future. Against this We focus on active asset management based on a backdrop, we once again invested intensively in the trainmulti-boutique model with independent centers of coming and development of our relationship managers in 2018. petence. The multi-boutique set-up allows us to cover the In addition to regular training courses about specialist entire spectrum of potential client needs: our organizathemes and regulatory aspects, Vontobel’s new advisory tional structure gives our investment teams a high degree philosophy, which was launched at the end of 2017, once of independence, thus fostering innovation. Therefore, again featured prominently in the training we provided our sustainable portfolios reflect different investment during the year. approaches and processes. In 2018, around 150 people completed the Vontobel CurWe provide our clients with a choice of sustainability-oririculum for Relationship Managers. This training course, ented funds and individual mandates. The ESG Investment which was developed specifically for Vontobel Wealth Council is responsible for the coordination of the different Management, consists of four days of classroom learning investment strategies regarding environmental, social and as well as around 25 hours of online training about topics governance (ESG) issues, overarching principles and polisuch as finance, regulation, and advisory capabilities. A cies, and generally advances ESG throughout the various key component of the curriculum is the transfer of knowlinvestment teams in Vontobel Asset Management and the 7 Vontobel Group. The Council consists of portfolio managthe sustainable management of water. The funds invest in ers and portfolio advisors dealing with various sustainable companies whose products and processes either have a strategies, as well as representatives of Wealth Managepositive impact on the environment or have a less negative ment and Corporate Sustainability Management. impact on the environment than their peers. In this context, we take into account the entire life cycle of these The ESG Competence Center delivers sustainability products and processes, since the largest environmental research to in-house investment teams and external cliimpact often occurs while the product is in use. There are ents according to their specific needs. Moreover, it provarious ways to measure this. As an example, we assess vides ESG company and country ratings using a proprireductions in the energy consumption of innovative prodetary analytical approach, and a sustainable investment ucts due to optimized processes or weight reductions in universe. Portfolio managers and clients across all divithe area of transportation. Moreover, we have developed a sions can select securities from this universe for their method called “Potential Avoided Emissions” (PAE) investments. Here, the goal of our sustainability analysis is together with the ISS-climate consultancy. This soluto determine which companies are ahead of their peers in tion-oriented approach records the contribution that enerterms of an active sustainability approach. The most progy-efficient, climate-friendly products and services are gressive issuers are selected for the sustainable investexpected to contribute to the reduction of CO2 emissions ment universe (equities and bonds). in the portfolio. When a company emerges as a potential investment, we consider financial as well as ESG criteria. Vontobel is a signatory to the European SRI Transparency While social and governance criteria are mainly relevant in Code. Various Vontobel funds incorporating sustainability the risk evaluation, a favorable impact on the environment aspects in the investment process bear the Eurosif transshould also make a positive contribution to the company’s parency certificate. Investors thus receive comprehensive financial success. When assessing social and governance information about the funds’ investment processes and criteria, we consult with external ESG research agencies. selection criteria. We offer a broad range of equity, fixed To ensure a holistic approach to environmental aspects, income, multi asset and real estate funds incorporating an additional comprehensive analysis by our own experts different sustainability approaches. is essential. —— mtx strategies (equities) —— Swiss Equities The mtx strategies are based on the belief that there is a The Swiss Equities team provides an extensive offering for strong positive correlation between improvements in a clients seeking sustainable investment solutions with a company’s return on invested capital (ROIC) and its share focus on Switzerland. The team has been addressing the price. We focus on a limited number of stocks that pass topic of sustainable investing for more than 15 years and our top quartile ROIC test and are top ranked in their now offers a broad range of strategies. When determining industry. Therefore, we seek to examine whether ESG data exclusion criteria and “best-in-class” approaches, anais material to the alpha source of the investment strategy in lysts and portfolio managers work primarily with external such a highly selective group of top performing stocks and sustainability rating agencies such as Inrate or Ethos. In whether ESG performance can support ROIC. Core to our the integrated approach, ESG criteria form an integral part ESG Integration approach is our in-house yardstick, the of the investment process. The analysts assess the comso-called minimum standard framework (MSF). Secpany from both a financial and a sustainability perspective. tor-specific MSFs, which consider up to 25 material ESG Analysts define minimum standard frameworks for all the factors with a possible relevance on future cash-flows, portfolio investments – similar to the mtx approach – with help us evaluate both the companies’ ESG risks and ESG criteria being assigned different weightings dependopportunities. All assets managed according to mtx strating on the sector. We have one of the largest volumes of egies follow this approach and are therefore ESG compliactively managed Swiss equities in the sustainable investant. In 2018, we developed the set of material indicators as ing space. well as the scoring methodology further. In addition, we performed more direct engagements with portfolio com—— Sustainable bond strategies panies. Being invested in bonds issued by countries as well as companies, we follow a range of sustainability assessment —— Global Trends strategies (equities) methods taking into account the characteristics of differHere, our clients can select funds that focus on long-term ent fixed-income market segments and client requiredevelopments in the restructuring of energy systems, ments. Typically, we exclude issuers whose activities are resource efficiency, the supply of clean technologies, and controversial. For example, companies should not gener8 ate more than 10 % of their turnover from controversial general economic conditions at country level. The other products and services. Countries are subject to exclusion factors we evaluate are the population and economic criteria such as human rights violations (according to Freestructure, quality of life and the infrastructure at conurbadom House) or threats to freedom and security (according tion level. Based on this, we produce a differentiated locato the Global Peace Index). We can apply further exclusion tion quality ranking for European cities. At a second stage, criteria to direct investment mandates at the request of cliwe evaluate “micro” locations and buildings according to ents. We consider the ESG analysis an integral part of our clearly defined criteria: In terms of individual properties, credit and country analysis revolving around the identificawe consider both energy and environmental factors, as tion of material ESG issues. For this, we start with the well as other key aspects that could hamper the rental assessment of recognized ESG research agencies and value (and consequently risk and return). These factors then take an in-depth look at critical ESG issues using our include mobility and the surrounding area, comfort and in-house capabilities and methodologies. We also offer wellbeing, as well as quality of use and flexibility. We also “best-in-class” approaches based on external sustainabiltake into account reputational risks – particularly with ity rating agencies such as Inrate, for example. regard to tenants. —— Sustainable Balanced strategies (multi asset) Further information on Vontobel Asset Management can The consideration of sustainability aspects in investment be found at: www.vontobel.com/am. processes is spreading fast amongst investors for regulatory and importantly, for risk/return reasons. As we conInvestment Banking sider ESG part of our fiduciary duty, we introduced binding Vontobel Investment Banking is one of the leading issuers minimum ESG standards for individual securities for all of structured products in Switzerland and the rest of Global Balanced mandates in 2018. In this context, we disEurope. Securities and foreign exchange trading, securimiss certain arms manufacturers, thereby applying the ties services supplied by Transaction Banking, Brokerage, exclusion lists of the Swiss Association for Responsible the External Asset Managers (EAM) business, and CorpoInvestment (SVVK-ASIR) and Vontobel. Moreover, comparate Finance complete the range of services offered by nies must satisfy a minimum standard in their ESG assessVontobel Investment Banking. ment to be considered for our portfolios. This approach rules out particularly risky securities, improves risk manWe actively offer various structured products that focus on agement, and allows for more robust portfolios to be put sustainable themes. At the same time, our clients have the together. We rely on the experience of our own ESG anaoption of structuring individual products based on suslysts, which is also acknowledged by external agencies. tainable underlyings according to their wishes. When Our institutional investors can count on minimum ESG defining and implementing environmental, social and govstandards being explicitly taken into account in their porternance (ESG) criteria, we draw on the expertise of the folios: Of course, the existing and proven best-in-class specialists in our Asset Management division as well as approach remains a vital pillar of our multi asset offering consulting ESG ratings and ESG data providers (e.g. Susfor clients who are keen on a stronger sustainability focus. tainalytics). In the case of theme-based (“thematic”), pubHere, companies in critical sectors must meet requirelicly distributed investment products, the specific ESG ments that are more stringent. Certain investment vehicles approach is indicated in the term sheet. These types of can also be barred because of specific customer instructhematic investment products that focus on sustainability tions. are distributed via Vontobel’s “derinet” web portal (in addition to other marketing measures). derinet allows our sus—— Sustainable real estate tainable investment products to be displayed using a Our Swiss and European real estate funds, which we mansearch function. Further information is available at: www. age together with external partners, are based on our view derinet.ch/thematicinvestments. that sustainability of location and building is key for successful long-term realty investments. We investigate the Our product offering includes a product based on the potential “macro” locations alongside a number of eco“Solactive Global Sustainability Leaders Performance nomic and socio-demographic factors. For our European Index” launched in 2017. In addition to traditional investreal estate fund, we developed a proprietary location ratment criteria such as liquidity, this index incorporates ESG ing assessing 450 conurbations with a total of 500 cities criteria in its analysis. The index includes companies that across 30 European countries. The aim is to identify prosrank as best-in-class in their industry and excludes firms perous, high-potential areas that qualify as sustainable that engage in controversial business sectors and praclocations. Moreover, we analyze the political, legal and tices. Further structured products address sustainable 9 themes in a broader sense or are dedicated to megatrends. FS8 Products and services designed to deliver a One example is the “Solactive Demographic Opportunity specific environmental benefit Performance Index”. The “Solactive Smart Grid PerforFS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and mance Index” also focuses on a sustainable mega trend. negative environmental or social screening The more women who are in decision-making roles, the Sustainable investments better a company performs, according to the findings of 2018 2017 various studies. The percentage of female executives is Volume of sustainable investments also an important indicator that is considered in the con(CHF mn) 23,285 13,962 text of sustainability analyses. With the “Top Executive Proportion of sustainable Women Basket”, investors can participate in a group of investments (in % of AuM) 13.6 8.4 companies where women hold a key position in top management or have served as CEO or a member of the Board of Directors for at least two years. The volume of sustainable investments managed by Vontobel rose by almost 70 % in 2017 compared to the The independent sustainability rating agency Inrate is previous year. Measured as a proportion of total assets responsible for the composition of the “Vontobel Climate under management, sustainable investments increased Protection Index”. It considers companies from five differfrom 8.4 % to 13.6 %. ent areas that combat the causes of climate change and it places an emphasis on innovation and efficiency when At 31.12.2018, Vontobel had a total of CHF 23,285 mn of selecting stocks. An index is compiled using the compaassets under management invested according to sustainnies and it is calculated, updated, and published daily. ability criteria. Three-quarters of this increase is attributable to the introduction of ESG minimum standards for all Further information on Vontobel Investment Banking can mandates in Sustainable Balanced Strategies (Multi be found at: www.vontobel.com/ib. Asset). In Wealth Management, the successful integration of Notenstein La Roche also contributed to the doubling of 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach client assets invested according to sustainability criteria. FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by Product volumes also doubled in Investment Banking specific region, size and by sector compared to the previous year. See pages 25, 27 and 29. 10 Active Ownership In addition to the formal engagement process through Hermes EOS, our analysts and portfolio managers engage 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary with the management of companies informally on relevant Material ESG issues can impact the success of a company topics as part of their fundamental research activities. Freand consequently its capacity for future investments and quently, ESG topics are not covered in company reports or growth. At Vontobel, we believe that voting and engageby our research providers. We therefore carry out informal ment can have a positive influence on a company’s values fact-finding engagements to better understand a compaand behavior and strengthen its longer-term contribution ny’s performance and standards (e.g. its governance politowards building more sustainable economies and societcies or environmental performance). This includes assessies and protecting the environment. ing the impact of its products and services on the environment – looking in particular at whether they can 103-2 The management approach and its components help to reduce or eliminate carbon emissions. Vontobel exercises its voting rights for all investments in the mtx and Global Trends strategies. We have been workThrough these consultations, we encourage companies to ing with Hermes Equity Ownership Services (Hermes EOS) improve their risk management practices and ESG discloin this context since 2011. All other funds come under our sures in general and to also report on the impacts of their internal “Management Company Voting Policy”, which is in products over their entire life cycle. For example, we have line with the corporate governance recommendations of contacted all companies included in our Clean Technolothe European Fund and Asset Management Association. gies and New Power strategies to assess and measure potential avoided emissions. We asked these companies The guidelines followed by Hermes EOS have been to report on their products and services and how they can reviewed and approved by Vontobel. Hermes EOS uses improve energy efficiency and reduce emissions over their the research of its proxy voting provider and adds its own entire life cycle. research in order to issue recommendations to its clients on how they should exercise their voting rights. Our portThe engagement activities of our mtx team, for example, folio managers and analysts receive alerts of forthcoming included the dialogue with a Russian consumer staples shareholder meetings together with voting recommendacompany over the past years. When the company was first tions that are based on standardized Hermes policies and considered for investment, it did not fulfil our minimum approved by Vontobel. Portfolio managers and analysts ESG standards. While gathering information about the review the voting recommendations and if they agree with company, our analysts were able to make specific suggesthem, Vontobel will vote accordingly. If they disagree tions for improvement, including improved transparency because the standard recommendation does not match regarding ESG issues. We were pleased to see that the our in-depth knowledge of the company in question and company has since improved its ESG disclosures in its its management, the analyst or portfolio manager can annual report. change the vote directly via the online proxy voting platform. This process ensures that we execute all of our vot103-3 Evaluation of the management approach ing obligations and that our analyst and portfolio managFS10 Portfolio-based engagement on social and ers retain the authority to personally make decisions in the environmental issues interests of our investors. Each year, Vontobel publishes a Voting and Engagement Report (www.vontobel.com/voting). The report for 2018 We consider active ownership to be a key part of sustainwill be published in mid-2019. In 2017, we voted on a total able investing. At Vontobel, we have both indirect engageof 5,338 resolutions at 425 general meetings worldwide ments, based on our partnership with Hermes EOS, as well for the above-mentioned strategies. At 246 of the meetas direct engagements, which are undertaken by our anaings (58 %), we rejected one or more motions and we lysts and portfolio managers. The Hermes EOS, service abstained from voting at one of the meetings. With certain covers funds that take account of sustainability criteria exceptions, we voted with the management at four meet(mtx strategy), as well as our global trends funds. Our ings, and at 174 general meetings (41 %) we supported all cooperation with Hermes EOS strengthens our position by the motions put forward by management. enabling us to join forces with other investors. This allows us to exercise greater influence than the size of our holdIn 2017, Hermes EOS, engaged in a critical dialogue with ings would otherwise permit. 69 companies on a total of 249 issues on our behalf, of which 14 % related to environmental, 24 % to social and 22 % to strategy and risk matters. Corporate governance 11 was once again the main topic discussed in 2017, accounting for 40 % of all issues. Further information on Sustainable Investing can be found at: www.vontobel.com/sustainable-investing. 12 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Economic Sustainability Economic Performance and Indirect Economic value distributed Economic Impacts CHF MN 2018 2017 Value creation 1 842.3 794.3 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Taxes 2 50.5 55.6 We assume our corporate responsibility by considering Dividend for the fiscal year 3 117.7 117.6 the needs of our clients and pursuing a risk-conscious approach while running our business successfully on a 1 Income less general expense and depreciation of property, long-term basis. By doing so while complying with ethical equipment and intangible assets 2 Includes income tax, tax on capital and other taxes and business standards, we can make a contribution to the contributions economy. 3 As per proposal submitted to the General Meeting At Vontobel, we have a long tradition of social responsibil201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other ity and of supporting the community. Our company is an retirement plans integral part of the global economic system and we beneInformation on pension plan obligations is provided in the fit from the excellent operating environment in our Swiss table about personnel expenses on page 158. home market, with its high standards of education, good infrastructure, and political stability. We therefore have a 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services responsibility to promote the welfare and stability of the supported communities in which we work, and we invest in a variety In 2018, the Charitable Foundation contributed around of initiatives and projects in this context. CHF 585,000 of donations and sponsorship funding (2017: CHF 580,000). During the year under review, it supported 103-2 The management approach and its components projects including “Stop Food Waste – Lessons for Young As an employer and taxpayer and as an active participant People” run by the PUSCH Stiftung Praktischer Umweltin economic life – e.g. in our role as a purchaser and invesschutz, which promotes practical environmental protector – we contribute to the creation of value at a regional tion measures. level in the locations in which we operate. This includes the corporate taxes that we pay annually, as well as the payThe total amount donated by Vontobel in 2018 was CHF ment of salaries and the provision of innovative and sus302,714 (2017: CHF 175,391). tainable financial services for private and institutional clients. We also make a contribution through the efficient use of energy and resources, by serving communities, and Anti-corruption by engaging in an active dialogue with the general public about the role of financial services providers. 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary We operate our business with a focus on maintaining the Since 2004, our clients have been able to lend their supsatisfaction and trust of our clients, as well as on protectport to a variety of projects focusing on social issues, culing and building the wealth they have entrusted to us. ture, ecology, education or medicine through the Vontobel These tasks have grown more complex as the financial Charitable Foundation. sector is now faced with increasing requirements and stricter regulations, including in the field of anti-corrup103-3 Evaluation of the management approach tion. At the same time, clients have become more discern201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed ing, and the demand for individually tailored solutions has In 2018, value creation increased by 6 % compared to the increased. Our stakeholders expect us to ensure that we previous year and taxes paid decreased by around 9 %. perform our duty of due diligence properly and in line with The Board of Directors’ confidence in Vontobel’s strategy our business philosophy in order to combat corruption. and its active capital management are demonstrated by the proposed dividend of CHF 2.10 per share, unchanged 103-2 The management approach and its components from the previous year. Further information on the operatAnti-corruption measures form an integral part of our ing result is provided on page 118. Compliance system. Effective compliance forms the basis of our long-term success and is therefore one of the most important aspects of our business. Vontobel takes comprehensive measures to ensure continuous compliance with laws and regulatory requirements. As part of our Group-wide risk analysis, teams of specialists continuCorporate Responsibility & Sustainability 13 ously assess all our areas of business using appropriate 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach compliance processes to ensure they are legally compli205-1 Operations assessed for risks relating to ant. corruption Our Group-wide risk management framework also One of the main areas of focus of our risk analysis is the addresses the topic of anti-corruption and covered all of identification of risks arising from money laundering or terour locations worldwide in the reporting year. rorist financing. The aim is to avoid business relationships that are used for money laundering or terrorist financing. In 205-2 Communication and training about antiaddition, we have a special process in place to monitor our corruption policies and procedures relationships with politically exposed persons (PEPs). In the reporting year, 100 % of all employees received Material cases are discussed by participants at the information about our anti-corruption strategies and meamonthly Legal & Compliance meeting, which is also sures or received anti-corruption training. attended by two members of the Executive Board. In urgent cases, the Committee meets on an ad hoc basis or 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions reaches decisions via circular letter. Legal and Compliance taken produce half-yearly compliance reports for the Executive There were no incidents of corruption involving employees Board. at Vontobel in the reporting year. A key area of focus in the implementation of our manageIn the case of suspected breaches of legal or regulatory ment approach is the provision of employee training on requirements, internal guidelines or ethical standards, a relevant topics in the area of anti-corruption. All new whistleblowing system is in place to allow employees to employees have to attend an introductory compliance report these incidents anonymously. No such reports were course that also addresses the subject of corruption. In made in 2018. addition, classroom training is carried out each year on specific topics within the business divisions. At departFurther information on economic sustainability at Vontobel mental level, further training courses are offered on certain can be found at: www.vontobel.com/economic-sustainsubjects to also address the handling of specific risks. Our ability. objective is to provide training for all employees on an annual basis. These measures prevent infringements of internal and external rules and regulations. New employees are also issued with the Employee Handbook, which contains specific regulations and instructions, as well as the Code of Conduct. The most recent version of the Employee Handbook is available on the Intranet. All employees can access current and comprehensive policies at any time. They include the “Group policy on anti-corruption and the handling of gifts,” as well as the “Group policy on conflict of interest.” 14 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Environmental Sustainability 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary the CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project). It calls Vontobel is committed to using processes that reduce the for the expansion of global capacity for the production of environmental impacts of our activities and help to protect electricity from renewable sources. the climate. For many years, we have engaged in various activities to protect the environment and are particularly Vontobel strives to conduct its own operations according committed to climate protection. Our stakeholders also to high environmental and social standards and we also expect this of us. When conducting our operations, we expect our business partners to help protect the environtherefore strive to use materials as sparingly as possible ment and to offer good employment conditions. These and place an emphasis on energy efficiency and the aspects are incorporated into our tendering process and reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. As a result of the serve as a guide when selecting suppliers. The relevant more efficient use of resources, we are often able to gendetails are set out in Vontobel’s “Guidelines for sustainable erate an additional economic benefit in different areas. procurement”. They address matters such as employment conditions, child labor and forced labor, environmental 103-2 The management approach and its components protection, and the prevention of corruption. These guideBased on Vontobel’s Sustainability Principles, the Vontobel lines are available at www.vontobel.com/principles-poliSustainability Committee defines the Sustainability Stratcies and form part of Vontobel’s general purchasing guideegy and specific targets. This includes environmental and lines. climate protection at Vontobel. The Committee, which is chaired by the CEO, meets on a quarterly basis. Its meetVontobel purchases a large quantity of products and serings are attended by representatives of Human Resources, vices from external providers, including facility manageOperations, Investor Relations, Finance & Risk, Marketing ment services, IT infrastructure, and the design and pro& Communications, Corporate Responsibility, and Corpoduction of printed materials, as well as catering and rate Sustainability, as well as representatives of the busicleaning services. Wherever possible, we work with local ness divisions. suppliers to ensure that goods are transported over short distances. We are committed to building fair, long-term The business divisions and units have responsibility for the partnerships with our suppliers. We purchase fruit for our operational implementation of measures in the areas of employees from a Swiss family-owned company, for examenvironmental and climate protection. In particular, the ple, and all of our print orders in Switzerland are awarded Facility Management, Procurement, and Logistics units to Swiss printing companies. A major proportion of the have an important role to play in this area. advertising and Christmas gifts used throughout the company are also purchased from Swiss providers. In the Our Corporate Real Estate Strategy is linked to our Susreporting year, we continued the “One Two We” program tainability Strategy. When selecting and renovating office introduced in our employee restaurant in 2013 and the buildings, we systematically focus on environmentally related “One Climate Menu” launched in connection with friendly and energy-efficient measures to achieve energy the program. The aim is to offer more meals that mainly savings. High energy standards and the good insulation of use seasonal produce and include fewer products that are building envelopes are part of this approach. The use of transported by air and less meat, while making increased energy-saving LED lighting is a standard feature of all our use of different types of cereals as an alternative to rice – new and renovated office buildings. Wherever possible, thus reducing the carbon footprint in the food chain. we also install LED lighting in existing buildings in view of the massive reductions in electricity and maintenance Vontobel has been carbon neutral since 1 January 2009 costs that can be achieved. This form of lighting results in (Scope 1, 2 and 3). We offset the greenhouse gas emisless waste that requires special disposal. Vontobel has sions we produce each year by purchasing CO2 emissions been purchasing electricity from renewable sources for all certificates to support projects that save the same volume of our locations globally since 2013 – either directly or othof emissions. In 2018, the Sustainability Committee erwise indirectly through regional Guarantees of Origin. selected one climate neutrality project with a focus on forThe indirect purchase of renewable energy in the form of est conservation. Detailed information about the project is regional Guarantees of Origin is the approach taken if it is available at: www.vontobel.com/environmental-sustainnot possible to directly purchase electricity from renewability. As a founding member of the Swiss Climate Founable sources. This is the case if, for example, Vontobel dation, we donate a significant proportion of our refunded leases its offices in one location and cannot influence the CO2 levy to the Foundation, which then uses these funds electricity mix used in those premises. When purchasing to finance projects to improve the energy efficiency of guarantees of origin, we comply with the requirements of smalland medium-sized companies. The projects supCorporate Responsibility & Sustainability 15 ported by the Climate Foundation in 2018 included the We further increased the proportion of recycled paper to development of palm oil-free detergents and a project to 88 %. protect bees. Further information is available at: www.vontobel.com/responsibility-news and www.klimastiftung.ch In the reporting year, a special project was carried out as and the relevant news there. part of the ongoing renovation of our office building at Genferstrasse 27 in Zurich, which will be completed in Each year, we gather comprehensive environmental data 2019. We have already been able to implement various in order to measure our progress. Due to Vontobel’s strong environmentally relevant measures in cooperation with the growth, we refined various data collection processes building owner. For example, the building façade, which during the reporting year. This allowed us to achieve furconsists of cast plates, was completely dismantled, ther improvements in data quality, especially when meareformed and then reused for the same building, with only suring air kilometers. small sections being designated as waste. Materials Energy 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 302-1: Energy consumption within the organization 301-2 Recycled input materials used 302-3: Energy intensity 302-4: Reduction of energy consumption 2018 1, 3 2017 1, 2 2016 1 Materials (absolute) 2018 1, 3 2017 1, 2 2016 1 Water (drinking water, m 3) 16,137 22,902 18,807 Energy (absolute) Food (t) 96 91 103 Heat consumption (MWh) 2,298 3,478 2,494 Paper (t) 127 101 88 Renewable energy consumption Proportion of recycled paper used 88 % 58 % 42 % (MWh) 124 Materials (per full-time position) Electricity consumption (MWh) 6,183 7,009 6,578 Water (drinking water, l / FTE) 8,906 13,714 10,249 District heating / cooling usage (MWh) 309 331 Food (kg / FTE) 53 55 56 Total energy consumption (MWh) 8,914 10,487 9,403 Paper (kg / FTE) 70 61 48 Business travel (1,000 km) 20,887 17,952 14,346 1 Figures are based on the period from October 1 in the previous year of which business flights to September 30 (1,000 km) 19,562 17,227 13,192 2 Figures are based on a broader scope and adapted emissions Commuting (1,000 km) 20,752 17,458 16,545 factors Energy (per full-time position) 3 Without Notenstein La Roche Total energy consumption (kWh / FTE) 4,919 6,279 5,125 Water consumption decreased compared to the previous Business travel (km / FTE) 11,527 10,750 7,818 year, both on an absolute basis and per employee. This of which business flights (km / FTE) 10,796 10,316 7,189 reduction is attributable to the fact that we were able to Commuting (km / FTE) 11,453 10,454 9,017 gather more accurate data in our international locations. 1 Figures are based on the period from October 1 in the previous year to September 30 The slight rise in the total consumption of foodstuffs 2 Figures are based on a broader scope and adapted emissions reflects the increase in headcount. The consumption of factors foodstuffs per employee decreased further in the report3 Without Notenstein La Roche ing year. In 2018, total energy consumption decreased compared Paper consumption rose both on an absolute basis and to the previous year on an absolute basis and per full-time per employee in the reporting year. Preparations for the equivalent (FTE). This was due to the fact that one larger integration of Notenstein La Roche, which resulted in the property in Zurich was not used as it is undergoing renoproduction of large amounts of printed materials for new vation until 2019. We were able to measure electricity conclients, was the main reason for the increase. sumption more accurately in 2018, resulting in improved data quality. This explains the reduction in electricity consumption. 16 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Another significant increase in business travel was We achieved a slight reduction in relative CO2 emissions recorded, primarily involving a rise in business air travel. compared to the previous year. However, there was a furThis reflects Vontobel’s international expansion, which ther increase in absolute CO2 emissions. As already continued in the reporting year. explained in the Energy section, this was clearly attributable to a rise in business air travel. The decrease in absoVontobel installed LED lighting in a further part of the lute and relative emissions resulting from commuting is Zurich Campus during the reporting year. In total, 684 LED due to the more accurate recording of the journeys comlights have now been installed, resulting in around 46,000 pleted. Watts of electricity savings. There are plans to switch to LED lighting in other parts of the Campus in the coming It is essential to have a solid set of data in order to develop years. and implement environmental and climate protection measures in a targeted and effective manner. We carried out a comprehensive project that resulted in significant Emissions improvements in data quality for various environmental key figures – especially for our international locations – in the 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach reporting year. We have thus created a solid basis for the 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions implementation of further measures, both in Switzerland 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions and in our international locations. 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Further information on environmental sustainability at 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Vontobel can be found at: www.vontobel.com/environmental-sustainability. 2018 1, 3 2017 1, 2 2016 1 Emissions (absolute) Total greenhouse gas emissions (t CO2e) 8,177 7,720 6,317 Greenhouse gas emissions scope 1 (t CO2e) 543 856 639 Greenhouse gas emissions scope 2 (t CO2e) 112 1 273 Greenhouse gas emissions scope 3 (t CO2e) 7,521 6,863 5,405 of which business flights (t CO2e) 6,551 5,826 4,444 of which commuting (t CO2e) 418 448 301 Emissions (per full-time position) Total greenhouse gas emissions (kg CO2e / FTE) 4,513 4,623 3,442 of which business flights (kg CO2e / FTE) 3,615 3,489 2,742 of which commuting (kg CO2e / FTE) 231 268 186 1 Figures are based on the period from October 1 in the previous year to September 30 2 Figures are based on a broader scope and adapted emissions factors 3 Without Notenstein La Roche Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability 17 Social Sustainability At Vontobel, we define social sustainability as our responhealth insurers at reduced rates together with their sibility as an employer, our comprehensive commitment to spouse or registered partner and their children. serving communities, and our efforts to promote culture –– We offer an attractive share participation plan as well and education. as mortgage products at preferential rates. –– In the case of both maternity and paternity leave, the Further information about our support for the International benefits that Vontobel grants to working parents go Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) and other social combeyond the statutory minimum. Female employees mitments is available here: www.vontobel.com/servwho have been with the company for up to six years ing-communities. are entitled to four months of maternity leave on full pay. After completing six years of service, they benefit Further information about our efforts to support culture from six months of maternity leave on full pay. and education is available on our website: www.vontobel. Vontobel grants new fathers five days of paternity com/culture-and-education. leave. –– For a number of years, we have been a member of kcc group (globegarden), an organization that offers famiEmployment lies complete childcare solutions. –– In Zurich, we offer lunches to employees free of 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary charge in our UTO Restaurant. The skills and expertise of our employees are vital to –– Wherever possible from an operational perspective, Vontobel’s long-term success. We are aware of the comVontobel endeavors to meet requests for part-time petition that exists for skilled employees: As an internaworking arrangements from employees, including tionally active Swiss wealth and asset manager and prodmembers of middle management. uct specialist, Vontobel has to compete with major players Part-time employees receive the same benefits as full-time and increasingly also with small new players that have employees. Different benefits apply in the case of tempoentered the arena, both in our Swiss home market and rary employees or staff who are available on an “on call” internationally. We therefore want to offer our employees basis. attractive employment conditions. Annual reports are submitted to the Executive Board for 103-2 The management approach and its components the purpose of reviewing the targets and measures impleCorporate Human Resources, which reports to the Execumented in this area. They also serve as a control instrutive Board, is responsible for positioning Vontobel as an ment. attractive employer. Corporate Human Resources defines our Human Resources Principles, which are also set out in Employee Surveys are also carried out at irregular interthe Vontobel Employee Handbook and determine the vals. objectives of our human resources and leadership processes and the measures taken to achieve them. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover The Employee Handbook is available on the Intranet for all Compared to the previous year, the number of employees members of staff and contains comprehensive informaincreased (see also 102-8 Information on employees and tion about employment conditions, social benefits, trainother workers, p. 106). ing, compliance, and security guidelines. It is supplemented by internal policies that can always be accessed by employees via the Intranet. Employee turnover 1 2018 2017 Our measures to support employees include an extensive Turnover rate (in %) 11.4 10.7 range of services: –– Holiday entitlement that exceeds the statutory Employee departures by age category: up to 20: 0; 21–30: 29; requirement. Since 2016, employees have had the 31–40: 61; 41–50: 64; 51–60: 31; 61–64: 14; from 65: 1 Hires by age category: up to 20: 1; 21–30: 75; 31–40: 78; 41–50: 63; option of purchasing a maximum of 10 individual days 51–60: 15 of holiday in addition to their normal holiday entitle1 Without Notenstein La Roche ment. Members of Senior Management can take a sabbatical after a specific number of years of service. –– Employees can join collective agreements offered by 18 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability In 2018, the employee turnover rate increased slightly from draw up a personal development plan. A Web-based plat10.7 % to 11.4 % (see table). A total of 67 female employees form – myPerformance Development – is used for the and 133 male employees left Vontobel during the year. assurance and evaluation of performance. The platform Meanwhile, a total of 232 new employees were hired also includes a development plan that employees define in during the year under review (77 women and 155 men). consultation with their line manager. This forms the basis Employees from the former Notenstein La Roche are not for personal career planning. included in this figure. Vontobel supports employees who want to complete 401-2 Benefits provided to employees external training courses, where appropriate. These Almost 8 % (2017: 12 %) of employees have made use of courses mainly involve business-specific qualifications the option of purchasing individual days of holiday in addisuch as the Master in Banking and Finance, Bachelor or tion to their normal holiday entitlement. Master in Business Administration, CFA or CIIA. The “SeitenWechsel” program gives senior managers the opportunity to further develop their personal and leaderTraining and Education ship skills. 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary We regularly run leadership courses in which members of Today, employees have high expectations regarding the the Executive Board play an active role as part of our execprovision of training and development opportunities within utive dialogue. In this way, we ensure that managers can their company. Lifelong learning is growing increasingly discuss leadership topics with Vontobel’s senior manageimportant. To remain attractive as an employer, we are ment. committed to promoting training and development. To review the quality of the courses and programs that are 103-2 The management approach and its components completed, we provide participants with a questionnaire Training and development are essential in order to keep on aspects such as content, design, applicability and pace with the competition. We recognize our responsibiltransferability, and we evaluate their responses. In addition ity as an employer and therefore offer a comprehensive to qualitative reporting, we generate quantitative reports. range of training and development courses. The HR This enables us to produce a comparison with training and Sounding Board ensures that they are aligned with development activities in previous years and also in comVontobel’s business objectives. parison with the industry benchmark. The completion of various e-learning and classroom train103-3 Evaluation of the management approach ing modules is a mandatory requirement for new employ404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee ees. Since 2018, new employees have been informed about key topics on their first day with the company and Training 1 they are given an opportunity to network. At “Welcome 2018 2017 Day” events, which are held several times a year, new Training costs (1,000 CHF) 1,654 1,464 employees can meet members of senior management, Training costs (CHF / FTE) 829 867 learn about the various services available to them within Number of apprenticeships the company and obtain extensive information about (incl. trainees) 32 28 Vontobel’s strategy, objectives and culture. Welcome Day is mandatory for all employees in Switzerland and for all 1 Without Notenstein La Roche employees from the rank of Director in international locations. The Intranet also features “getting started” pages to While overall training costs rose compared to the previous facilitate the employee onboarding process at an internayear, training costs per employee decreased once again in tional level. This includes a video welcome message from 2018. The number of apprenticeships increased from 28 in the CEO and useful information and tips to help employees the previous year to 32. settle into their new roles at Vontobel. 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and We consider it important for employees to take responsitransition assistance programs bility for their own professional development. As part of In 2018, the Vontobel Academy once again offered a large the annual definition of performance objectives as well as number of internal and external courses on specialist, pertheir evaluation, all employees are given the opportunity to sonal development and management topics. The fourth Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability 19 version of the Vontobel Ambassador e-learning program 2018, Vontobel and the women’s network “Fondsfrauen” was expanded to include further modules and is now mansuccessfully hosted an event including a discussion round datory for all employees. Its aim is to inform all employees about the role of women in the fintech industry. In the about Vontobel’s most important products and services. “Nationality” focus area, we want to ensure that the composition of our workforce reflects our target markets while, 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular at the same time, preserving our “Swissness” that is valperformance and career development reviews ued by our clients. Finally, in the “Demography” focus area, At the end of 2018, 90 % of employees had begun or we aim to achieve a more balanced age mix. Long-term already completed their annual performance review prosuccession planning that addresses the needs of the busicess. Employees from the former Notenstein La Roche are ness divisions is an essential part of Vontobel’s long-term not included in this figure. human resources planning. This is another area in which we take our Diversity & Inclusion focus areas into account. The age structure shows that most employees are aged Diversity, Equal Opportunity and between 30 and 50. Targeted measures are needed to Non-Discrimination align the potential of this age group with the divisions’ staffing needs. 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary The creation of a pleasant working environment that is free We actively address the topic of Diversity & Inclusion with from discrimination and promotes diversity and equal Vontobel’s management in order to bring about changes opportunity represents a further component of our comand achieve our goals in this area. Consequently, Diversity mitment to our employees. & Inclusion is one of the subjects discussed in our leadership seminars. 103-2 The management approach and its components To prevent discrimination in the workplace, the principle of 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach non-discrimination is enshrined in our Employee Hand405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees book. Both the Employee Handbook and the Vontobel There was a slight change in the number of different Code of Conduct form an integral part of the employment nationalities with a trend towards more “Swissness”, pricontract. marily reflecting the integration of employees from Notenstein La Roche. Vontobel wants to strengthen employee awareness of the topic of Diversity & Inclusion. We have therefore defined There was little change in the proportion of employees who three main areas that we will focus on going forward: worked on a part-time basis compared to 2017: The pro“Gender”, “Nationality” and “Demography”. We have forportion of female employees working part-time increased mulated appropriate and realistic goals – referred to as our slighty to 33 % (2017: 31 %), while the proportion of male “Aspirations 2020” – for each area. We provide compreemployees in part-time positions remained stable at 8 %. hensive information about our various activities on the Intranet on an ongoing basis. We plan to establish a DiverFor these as well as further indicators see the tables on sity Counselling Board in the future. p. 104. In the “Gender” focus area, we are striving to continuously 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions increase the number of women at senior management taken level or with leadership responsibilities. For example, in No cases of discrimination were reported in 2018. Breakdown of full-time and part-time positions by gender as of 31.12.2018 NUMBER OF PROPORTION NUMBER PROPORTION TOTAL TOTAL WOMEN OF WOMEN OF MEN OF MEN NUMBER PROPORTION less than 20 % 0 0 2 0% 2 0% 20–49 % 22 3% 3 0% 25 1% 50–79 % 83 13 % 19 1% 102 5% 80–99 % 107 16 % 96 7% 203 10 % 100 % 437 67 % 1,310 92 % 1,747 84 % Total 649 100 % 1,430 100 % 2,079 100 % 20 Number of employees by domicile NUMBER OF NUMBER OF 31.12.2018 NUMBER OF NUMBER OF 31.12.2017 WOMEN MEN TOTAL WOMEN MEN TOTAL Switzerland 521 1,216 1,737 403 1,021 1,424 Germany 43 67 110 42 63 105 USA 28 51 79 31 51 82 United Kingdom 22 44 66 17 40 57 Hong Kong 12 13 25 10 13 23 Italy 9 10 19 8 9 17 Luxembourg 8 9 17 8 9 17 Liechtenstein 0 0 0 7 10 17 Singapore 3 5 8 4 6 10 U.A.E 2 10 12 2 9 11 Spain 1 3 4 1 2 3 Australia 0 2 2 0 1 1 Total 649 1,430 2,079 533 1,234 1,767 Number of employees by nationality Age structure of the Board of Directors 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 NUMBER IN % NUMBER IN % NUMBER IN % NUMBER IN % Switzerland 1,402 67 1,132 64 31 to 40 years old 1 11 2 22 Germany 248 12 228 13 41 to 50 years old 4 44 2 22 Italy 75 4 71 4 51 to 60 years old 2 22 2 22 USA 68 3 68 4 More than 60 years old 2 22 3 34 United Kingdom 74 4 67 4 Total 9 100 9 100 France 39 2 36 2 China 19 1 21 Austria 14 1 18 1 Years of service Spain 16 1 14 1 Other 124 6 112 6 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Total 2,079 100 1,767 100 NUMBER IN % NUMBER IN % < 1 year 266 13 220 12 1 up to < 5 years 739 36 664 38 Age structure 5 up to < 10 years 521 25 415 23 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 10 up to < 20 years 435 21 371 21 NUMBER IN % NUMBER IN % 20 up to < 30 years 80 4 67 4 Up to 20 years old 13 1 28 2 from 30 years 38 2 30 2 21 to 30 years old 267 13 184 10 Total 2,079 100 1,767 100 31 to 40 years old 603 29 527 30 41 to 50 years old 705 34 620 35 Breakdown of rank structure by gender as of 31.12.2018 1 51 to 60 years old 445 21 364 21 More than 60 years NUMBER PROPORNUMBER PROPORold 46 2 44 2 OF TION OF OF TION OF Total 2,079 100 1,767 100 WOMEN WOMEN MEN MEN Average age Employee 119 49 % 123 51 % (in years) 43 1 43 Middle management 266 43 % 357 57 % Senior management 162 17 % 784 83 % 1 Without Notenstein La Roche Executive Board 0 0% 6 100 % Total 547 30 % 1,270 70 % Board of Directors 3 33 % 6 67 % 1 Without Notenstein La Roche 21 Marketing and Labeling, Product Customer Privacy Compliance 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary The trust that clients place in us forms the basis for our Offering each of our clients the right solution or best possuccessful long-term collaboration and is an important sible service is the primary goal of our three business diviasset that is highly valued at Vontobel. We therefore assign sions – Wealth Management, Asset Management and considerable importance to protecting client data and Investment Banking. Regulatory requirements apply in complying with all legal requirements in this context. particular to producers and distributors of products and services for retail and private clients. Depending on the 103-2 The management approach and its components jurisdiction and the product or service involved, these The parameters for compliance with legal requirements duties include the duty to create and supply Key Informarelating to the protection of client data (e.g. banking confition Documents describing the characteristics and funcdentiality and data protection law) are defined and monitions of the products or services and the associated risks tored by cross-divisional departments such as Legal, and opportunities. The Key Information Documents should Compliance & Tax and IT Security. Information about data also ensure the comparability of the products and serprotection in our different locations can be found on our vices. webpage about the EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) at: www.vontobel.com/gdpr. Further informa103-2 The management approach and its components tion on IT security can be found here: www.vontobel.com/ To continue developing our business, each of our three it-security. business divisions carries out product development, client communications and marketing activities. The applicable 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach legal regulations, such as the Swiss Law on Collective 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of Investments or the Markets in Financial Instruments Direccustomer privacy and losses of customer data tive (MiFID II) guide us in this area. We are an active memThere were no substantiated complaints concerning ber of various industry associations and help to shape breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data rules in the area of self-regulation that are designed to in the reporting year. increase the comparability of products and services and provide greater transparency for investors, as well as comFurther information on social sustainability at Vontobel plying with the corresponding provisions. In addition, we can be found at: www.vontobel.com/social-sustainability. follow the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) and we also comply with the requirements set out in the European SRI Transparency Code for a number of our sustainable investment solutions. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling Our products and services meet the applicable legal and regulatory requirements with regard to labeling and transparency. In the reporting year, there were no cases of misconduct or financial penalties for non-compliance with regulations governing the applicable requirements. 22 General Disclosures Organizational profile 102-9 Supply chain Vontobel purchases a large quantity of products and ser102-1 Name of the organization vices from external providers, including facility manageVontobel Holding AG ment services, IT infrastructure, and the design and production of printed materials, as well as catering and 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services cleaning services. Wherever possible, we work with local Information on our activities, brands, products, and sersuppliers. For example, we purchase fruit for our employvices is provided in the following sections of our Annual ees from a Swiss family-owned company. All of our print Report: “Our brand”, pages 10–11; “Wealth Management”, orders in Switzerland are awarded to Swiss printing compage 24; “Asset Management”, page 26, “Investment panies. A major proportion of the advertising and ChristBanking”, page 28. mas gifts used throughout the company are also purchased from Swiss providers. At the end of 2018, we had a 102-3 Location of headquarters total of around 1,460 suppliers, of which 80 % were based Vontobel Holding AG, Gotthardstrasse 43, CH-8022 in Switzerland. Zurich, telephone +41 58 283 59 00, www.vontobel.com. 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its 102-4 Location of operations supply chain Vontobel has operations at 26 locations in 12 countries Information on the development of the business is pro(see “Our locations”, page 244). vided in the “Business Review”, page 13, and in “Participations removed from the scope of consolidation” page 215. 102-5 Ownership and legal form There were no significant changes to the supply chain. Further information about the nature of our ownership and our legal form are provided in the section “Major share102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach / holders and groups of shareholders with pooled voting Sustainability approach rights”, page 35. A systematic client focus, a long-term growth strategy, and a solid capital and risk policy are core elements of 102-6 Markets served economic sustainability at Vontobel. Information and Information on markets served is provided in “Wealth explanations on this topic can be found in the relevant Management”, page 24; “Asset Management”, page 26, chapters of Vontobel’s Annual Report. “Investment Banking”, page 28. Our growth strategy includes a focus on our competen102-7 Scale of the organization cies and on our offering in the area of sustainable investAs of 31.12.2018, Vontobel had a total of 2,079 employees. ing. In terms of environmental sustainability, we take targeted measures when conducting our operations to Further key figures concerning the scale of the organizaachieve a significant reduction in CO2 emissions and other tion are provided on pages 8 and 9. factors that are harmful to the environment. Based on our strong commitment to supporting communities, we invest 102-8 Information on employees and other workers in initiatives and projects to promote social sustainability. Of the total of 2,079 employees at Vontobel as of A dedicated team addresses these topics. In 2019, we are 31.12.2018, 1,747 held full-time positions (see table on planning to start a scenario analysis using scientifically page 103). based criteria to determine climate change-related opportunities and risks to our business model. In addition to employees with permanent contracts, a total of 390 temporary employees worked for Vontobel at the 102-12 External initiatives end of 2018. These individuals either have fixed-term conVontobel has been a signatory to the PRI, a UN initiative to tracts or are available on an “on call” basis to assist the promote sustainable investing, since 2010. The Principles company when needed. were launched by the then UN Secretary General in 2006 and take account of the growing relevance of environmenFor further key figures concerning our employees see the tal, social and governance (ESG) themes in investment section on “Diversity, Equal Opportunity and Non-Discrimpractice. In 2018, Vontobel hosted the PRI Climate Forum ination” (p. 103). at its head office in Zurich (www.vontobel.com/pri-climate-forum). Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability 23 In 2017, our company joined the global network of the Ethics and integrity “United Nations Global Compact” as well as the “Global Compact Network Switzerland”. We have thus pledged to 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of align our operations and strategies with ten universal prinbehavior ciples in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and As a financial services provider, Vontobel is closely conanti-corruption. Within our sphere of influence as a comnected with the economy and society in all the locations in pany, we thus help to promote key sustainability principles which we operate. Consequently, the nature and design of around the globe. our products and services and the way we conduct our banking operations have an impact on sustainable devel102-13 Membership of associations opment in this integrated world. We believe that promoting Vontobel is a member of various organizations and a sustainable development in our markets is both an ecoco-signatory of a number of investor initiatives. In this way, nomic necessity and an ethical duty. we promote sustainable development in an environmental and social context. Two key documents form the basis of Vontobel’s sustainability commitments: In early 2018, Vontobel joined the Sustainable Construc–– The Code of Conduct defines basic principles that tion Network Switzerland. Together with the correspondemployees must observe to ensure that we perform ing stakeholders, the organization is committed to our business activities in a fair and forward-looking ­promoting the sustainable development of buildings, inframanner. structure and settlements in Switzerland. –– The Sustainability Guidelines define the areas in which we take action to implement our sustainability A current overview of all initiatives and memberships can strategy. be found on the Internet at: www.vontobel.com/ratings-­ These as well as fruther principles and guidelines are memberships. available at: www.vontobel.com/principles-and-policies. Strategy Governance 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 102-18 Governance structure See the foreword of the Sustainability Report, page 88. We permanently strive for sustainability, since it goes hand in hand with business success and stability. Sustainability 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities and an effective business strategy are closely interconSee the foreword of the Sustainability Report, page 88. nected. For this reason, Vontobel is committed to the continuous optimization of sustainable business management in all our divisions in the long term. Vontobel strives to continuously improve its own sustainability performance and has two committees that work towards this goal: The Vontobel Sustainability Committee consists of representatives from all divisions and reports to the CEO (see chart). Vontobel Sustainability Committee (VSC) Chair: Dr Zeno Staub, CEO Sustainability ­Management Representatives Asset Management Wealth Management Investment Banking of Business Units Representatives Investor Relations Group Marketing & Communication Group Human Resources Operations of Support Units 24 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Based on Vontobel’s Sustainability Principles, the Com102-42: Identifying and selecting stakeholders mittee defines the Sustainability Strategy and specific tarFor Vontobel, interacting closely with our stakeholders is a gets. In the context of our “Strategy 2020”, the Committee central component of our day-to-day business. We focus defined strategic objectives and key performance indicaon our dialogue with all stakeholder groups on whom tors for the area “Corporate Responsibility & SustainabilVontobel’s business activities have a significant influence ity”. Corporate Sustainability Management coordinates or who have a substantial impact on the success of the the implementation of the measures that have been company. At established points of contact, such as Invesdecided in conjunction with the relevant specialist units tor Relations or Corporate Sustainability Management, (see chart). potential stakeholders are systematically recorded based on the queries we receive. Corporate Sustainability Management 102-43: Approach to stakeholder engagement An open dialogue is key in order to gain a better underChief Executive Officer Dr Zeno Staub standing of the needs of our clients, employees, suppliers, and cooperation partners, and to take account of the interests of local communities and non-government organizaCorporate Marketing & Communication P. Farinato tions (NGOs). We want to engage with our stakeholders by providing clear and comprehensible information on different challenges and opportunities relating to ESG matters. Corporate Responsability & Sponsoring C. Schilz Regular employee and client surveys are key tools in this context, as are targeted discussions with our suppliers. Corporate Sustainability Management N. Ernst, A. Baumast 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised In 2018, we once again carried out an employee survey as well as various client surveys. Issues raised by employees The ESG Investment Council is responsible for the coordiincluded calls for targeted support in the area of career nation of the different investment strategies regarding development and the topic of constructive feedback. The environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues, overmajority of clients indicated that they were very satisfied arching principles and policies, and generally advances with Vontobel but we nonetheless want to achieve ESG throughout the various investment teams in Vontobel improvements in this area and to further strengthen client Asset Management and the Vontobel Group. The Council satisfaction and trust in our company. We are making good consists of portfolio managers and portfolio advisors progress in these efforts: In the financial year 2018, dealing with various sustainable strategies, as well as repVontobel once again received numerous awards, demonresentatives of Wealth Management and Corporate Susstrating our clients’ satisfaction with our services. tainability Management. Information on Vontobel’s overall governance structure is Reporting practice provided in the “Corporate Governance” section, starting on page 34. 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Information on the scope of consolidation is provided on Stakeholder engagement pages 214–215. 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Our sustainability commitments center on our main groups of stakeholders: Clients, shareholders, employees, society and the environment. 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements In Switzerland, all employees up to and including middle management are covered by the Agreement on Conditions of Employment for Bank Employees (VAB) issued by the Employers Association of Banks in Switzerland (AVG). Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability 25 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 102-50 Reporting period This report is based on the material topics that Vontobel Unless stated otherwise, the reporting period is from has identified using the process defined under the GRI G4 January 1 to December 31, 2018. The environmental key guidelines to determine material topics and disclosures in figures relate to the period from October 1, 2017, to Sepvarious workshops and interviews. During this process, we tember 30, 2018. discussed all the GRI topics and the Financial Sector Supplements that apply specifically to the financial sector and 102-51 Date of most recent report determined their materiality for Vontobel. The material topFebruary 2018 ics have been transferred to the reporting based on the GRI Standards. 102-52 Reporting cycle This report has been produced in accordance with the As a provider of financial products, we also incorporate principles set out by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) sustainability aspects into our products and services and for the ninth time. into partnerships and relationships with suppliers. Further information is available in the preceding chapters. Unless 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report stated otherwise, the reporting boundary encompasses Natalie Ernst Vontobel Holding AG with the subsidiaries listed in the Corporate Sustainability Manager consolidated annual financial statements as well as their Telephone +41 58 283 62 18 locations. Annett Baumast 102-47 List of material topics Sustainability Manager Material topics for our reporting: Telephone +41 58 283 68 83 –– Economic performance sustainability@vontobel.com –– Indirect economic impacts –– Materials 102-54: Claims of reporting in accordance with the –– Energy GRI Standards –– Emissions This report was produced in accordance with the GRI –– Employment Standards: Core option. –– Training and education –– Diversity and equal opportunity 102-55: GRI Content Index –– Non-discrimination See GRI Content Index from page 111. –– Anti-corruption –– Product and service labelling 102-56: External assurance –– Customer privacy The report has not been externally assured. –– Product compliance –– Product portfolio –– Active ownership 102-48 Restatements of information We have not made any restatements or corrections to the previous year’s disclosures. It is planned that the list of material topics will be updated in 2019. 102-49 Changes in reporting We have not made any changes to our reporting. Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability 27 GRI Content Index GRI Standard Title Page GRI 101: 2016 Foundation GRI 102: 2016 General Disclosures 106 Organizational profile 106 GRI 102-1 Name of the organization 106 GRI 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services 106 GRI 102-3 Location of headquarters 106 GRI 102-4 Location of operations 106 GRI 102-5 Ownership and legal form 106 GRI 102-6 Markets served 106 GRI 102-7 Scale of the organization 106 GRI 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 106 GRI 102-9 Supply chain 106 GRI 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 106 GRI 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach / Sustainability approach 106 GRI 102-12 External initiatives 106 GRI 102-13 Membership of associations 106 Strategy 107 GRI 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 107 GRI 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 107 Ethics and integrity 107 GRI 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 107 Governance 107 GRI 102-18 Governance structure 107 Stakeholder engagement 108 GRI 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 108 GRI 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements  108 GRI 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 108 GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 108 GRI 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 108 Reporting practice 108 GRI 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 108 GRI 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 109 GRI 102-47 List of material topics 109 GRI 102-48 Restatements of information 109 GRI 102-49 Changes in reporting 109 GRI 102-50 Reporting period 109 GRI 102-51 Date of most recent report 109 GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle 109 GRI 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 109 GRI 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 109 GRI 102-55 GRI Content Index 109 GRI 102-56 External assurance 109 For the Materiality Disclosures Service, GRI verified whether the GRI Content Index is clearly presented and the references for Disclosures 102-40 to 102-49 correspond to the relevant sections of the Report. 28 Reason of GRI Standard Title Page omission Sustainable Investing 89 Product portfolio 89 GRI 103: 2016 103-1 / 103-2 / 103-3 Management approach 89, 93 FS6 Business Lines by specific region, size and sector 93 p.c. FS8 Products and services designed to deliver a specific environmental benefit 93 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental or social FS 11 screening 93 Active Ownership 94 GRI 103: 2016 103-1 / 103-2 / 103-3 Management approach 94 FS10 Portfolio-based engagement on social and environmental issues 94 Economic Sustainability 96 GRI 201: 2016 Economic performance 96 GRI 103: 2016 103-1 / 103-2 / 103-3 Management approach 96 GRI 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 96 GRI 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 96 GRI 203: 2016 Indirect economic impacts 96 GRI 103: 2016 103-1 / 103-2 / 103-3 Management approach 96 GRI 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 96 p.c. GRI 205: 2016 Anti-corruption 96 GRI 103: 2016 103-1 / 103-2 / 103-3 Management approach 96, 97 GRI 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 97 GRI 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies 97 GRI 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 97 Environmental Sustainability 98 GRI 301: 2016 Materials 98 GRI 103: 2016 103-1 / 103-2 / 103-3 Management approach 98, 99 GRI 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 99 GRI 301-2 Recycled input materials used 99 GRI 302: 2016 Energy 99 GRI 103: 2016 103-1 / 103-2 / 103-3 Management approach 98, 99 GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 99 GRI 302-3 Energy intensity 99 GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 99 GRI 305: 2016 Emissions 100 GRI 103: 2016 103-1 / 103-2 / 103-3 Management approach 98, 100 GRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 100 GRI 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 100 GRI 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 100 GRI 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 100 GRI 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 100 29 Reason of GRI Standard Title Page omission Social Sustainability 101 GRI 401: 2016 Employment 101 GRI 103: 2016 103-1 / 103-2 / 103-3 Management approach 101 GRI 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 101 GRI 401-2 Benefits provided to employees 102 GRI 404: 2016 Training and Education 102 GRI 103: 2016 103-1 / 103-2 / 103-3 Management approach 102 GRI 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 102 GRI 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 102 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career developGRI 404-3 ment reviews 103 GRI 405: 2016 Diversity and Equal Opportunity 103 GRI 103: 2016 103-1 / 103-2 / 103-3 Management approach 103 GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 103 GRI 406: 2016 Non-Discrimination 103 GRI 103: 2016 103-1 / 103-2 / 103-3 Management approach 103 GRI 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 103 GRI 417: 2016 Marketing and Labeling, Product-Compliance 105 GRI 103: 2016 103-1 / 103-2 / 103-3 Management approach 105 GRI 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling 105 GRI 418: 2016 Customer Privacy 105 GRI 103: 2016 103-1 / 103-2 / 103-3 Management approach 105 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses GRI 418-1 of customer data 105 p.c. = Omissions due to partial coverage. We are working to increase data coverage in the coming years. 30 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability UN Global Compact: Activities and Results Implementing and supporting the ten principles of the UN Global Compact “Vontobel has been a member of the UN Global Compact and of the Global Compact Network Switzerland since 2017. We have thus pledged to align our operations and strategies with ten universally recognized prin¬ciples in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption.” Dr Zeno Staub, CEO of Vontobel This Sustainability Report is our second Communication on Progress (COP) report about the implementation of the ten principles at Vontobel. The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact PRINCIPLES IMPLEMENTATION AT VONTOBEL: CONTENT-RELATED TOPICS PAGE IN ANNUAL AND COVERAGE ACCORDING TO GRI REPORTING REPORT Human Rights Principle 1: Topic Non-discrimination Businesses should support and GRI 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 103 respect the protection of internaFinancial Sector specific indicators: product portfolio and active ownership tionally proclaimed human rights FS10: Portfolio-based commitment to social and environmental issues 94 FS11: Assets subject to environmental or social screening 93 Principle 2: Topic Organizational Profile Make sure that they are not GRI 102-9 Supply chain 106 complicit in human rights abuses Financial Sector specific indicators: product portfolio and active ownership FS10: Portfolio-based commitment to social and environmental issues 94 FS11: Assets subject to environmental or social screening 93 Labor Principle 3: Topic Organizational Profile Businesses should uphold the GRI 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 108 freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Topic Organizational Profile Elimination of all forms of forced GRI 102-9 Supply Chain 106 and compulsory labor Topic Economic performance GRI 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 96 Principle 5: Topic Organizational Profile Effective abolition of child labor GRI 102-9 Supply Chain 106 Principle 6: Topic Organizational Profile Elimination of discrimination in GRI 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 106 respect of employment and Topic Employment occupation GRI 401-1 New employees hires and employee turnover 101 Topic Training and Education GRI 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance 102 programs GRI 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 103 development reviews Topic Diversity and equal opportunity GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 103 Topic Non-discrimination GRI 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 103 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability 31 PRINCIPLES IMPLEMENTATION AT VONTOBEL: CONTENT-RELATED TOPICS PAGE IN ANNUAL AND COVERAGE ACCORDING TO GRI REPORTING REPORT Environment Principle 7: Topic Materials Businesses should support a GRI 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 99 precautionary approach to GRI 301-2 Recycled input materials used 99 environmental challenges Topic Energy GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 99 GRI 302-3 Energy intensity 99 GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 99 Topic Emissions GRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 100 GRI 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emission 100 GRI 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emission 100 GRI 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 100 GRI 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 100 Financial Sector specific indicators: product portfolio and active ownership FS10: Portfolio-based commitment to social and environmental issues 94 FS11: Assets subject to environmental or social screening 93 Principle 8: Topic Materials Undertake initiatives to promote GRI 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 99 greater environmental responsibility GRI 301-2 Recycled input materials used 99 Topic Energy GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 99 GRI 302-3 Energy intensiity 99 GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 99 Topic Emissions GRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 100 GRI 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emission 100 GRI 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emission 100 GRI 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 100 GRI 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 100 Principle 9: Topic Energy Encourage the development and GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 99 diffusion of environmentally friendly Topic Emissions technologies GRI 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 100 Anti-corruption Principle 10: Topic Ethics and Integrity Businesses should work against GRI 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 107 corruption in all its forms, including GRI 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 97 extortion and bribery GRI 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and 97 procedures GRI 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 97 Legal information This report is intended solely for information purposes. The information and views contained in it do not constitute a request, offer or recommendation to use a service, to buy or sell investment instruments or to conduct other transactions. By their very nature, forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties, both general and specific, and risks exist that predictions, forecasts, projections and other outcomes described or implied in forward-looking statements will not be achieved. This report also appears in German. The German version is prevailing. Vontobel Gotthardstrasse 43 8022 Zurich vontobel.com
