Corporate Responsibility Report Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 2018 Contents / Introduction / About this Report / GRI table of contents / Materiality table GRI SDG Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate Responsibility in Grupo Catalana Occidente 04 Our environment Table of contents Introduction 3 About this Report 4 01. Grupo Catalana Occidente 5 1.1 Introduction 5 1.2 Business model 7 1.3 Corporate governance 9 02. Corporate responsibility in Grupo Catalana Occidente 14 2.1 Materiality 15 2.2 Corporate responsibility plan 16 03. Commitment to our stakeholders 18 3.1 Employees: our most important asset 19 3.2 Customers: at the heart of our activity 24 3.3 Shareholders: the key to sustainability 27 3.4 Intermediaries: agents and brokers 27 3.5 Associates and suppliers: service providers 29 3.6 Society 31 04. Our environment 33 GRI table of contents 35 Materiality table GRI SDG 41 Contents | 2 Contents / Introduction / About this Report / GRI table of contents / Materiality table GRI SDG Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate Responsibility in Grupo Catalana Occidente 04 Our environment Introduction 102-14 For the second year running we are presenting the Corporate our business strategy, focussing on responsible and transparFinally, I would like to thank each and every one of our stakeResponsibility Report of Grupo Catalana Occidente with the ent management. In addition, we have always clearly recognised holders for helping us to be able to continue creating sustainaim of sharing the most important information about our ecothe intrinsic social value of insurance, which contributes to the able social value wherever we are present. I encourage you to nomic, social and environmental performance in 2018. This welfare of society by protecting individuals and companies read this Corporate Responsibility Report that includes, in a document has been prepared in accordance with the Global from the risks they face in their lives and daily activities. simple and transparent way, our reality as a Group. Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards using the essentials option. We have also for the first time included the Sustainable During 2018, we have taken important steps in the corporate Development Goals (SDG) on which we are working to help responsibility strategy of Grupo Catalana Occidente. The achieve the 2030 Agenda approved and promoted by the United Corporate Responsibility Committee, which is formed by very José Mª Serra Nations. different areas representing our Group and also our stakeholdChairman ers, held four meetings in which work was carried out in a The information in this report corresponds to Grupo Catalana cross-cutting manner to promote the identification of the maOccidente and to the companies forming it, leading companies terial issues and the 2019-2021 Master Plan, reaching full conin the Spanish insurance sector and the international credit sensus on both issues which were subsequently approved by insurance sector. The Group has a presence in more than 50 the Management Committee. countries through a business portfolio that is both diverse and balanced. The responsible completion of each step in our busiI would also like to highlight the role of Fundación Jesús Serra, ness chain allows us to relate to our stakeholders, to whom we through which the Group's social action is channelled and which, have made specific commitments based on strong values that in 2018, launched the first edition of its Research Award that define our way of being and doing things: people, commitment, recognises excellence in the professional careers of researchers self-criticism, austerity, long-term vision and innovation. in the fields of nutrition, food and health, in their basic and We are a Group with over 150 years of history behind it that for clinical research areas. decades has integrated corporate responsibility principles into Letter from the Chairman | 3 Contents / Introduction / About this Report / GRI table of contents / Materiality table GRI SDG Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate Responsibility in Grupo Catalana Occidente 04 Our environment Corporate Responsibility Report About this Report Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. This Report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: essentials option. In line with these principles, this 2018 document presents the issues that reflect the significant economic, environmental and social impacts of Grupo Catalana Occidente (GCO) during the year 2018, from 1 January to 31 December 2018. The information it contains may be supplemented with that found on www.grupocatalanaoccidente.com. Scope of information The scope of the information within this Report corresponds to Grupo Catalana Occidente and the entities that form it. The financial information it includes comes from the Consolidated Annual Accounts from the year ending 31 December 2018. If the information reported has a scope which is different to that established, this is specified in the corresponding section or table with a footnote. About this Report | 4 Contents / Introduction / About this Report / GRI table of contents / Materiality table GRI SDG Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate Responsibility in Grupo Catalana Occidente 04 Our environment The Group’s brands Seguros Catalana Occidente Plus Ultra Seguros Grupo Catalana Occidente Seguros Bilbao NorteHispana Seguros 1.1 Introduction Grupo Catalana Occidente is one of the leaders in the Spanish insurance sector and in credit insurance worldwide. Over its Atradius Atradius Reinsurance more than 150 years it has seen steady growth, thanks to its ability to adapt to changes and to remain faithful to its true character as an insurer. The Group has a presence in more than 50 countries through a diversified and balanced business portfolio, serving 4 million customers. Crédito y Caución Its consolidation as one of the largest Spanish capital insurance groups is largely a result of its acquisition model, which has allowed it to gradually extend its brands to the leading companies in their field or geographic area. Grupo Catalana Occidente | 5 Contents / Introduction / About this Report / GRI table of contents / Materiality table GRI SDG Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate Responsibility in Grupo Catalana Occidente 04 Our environment 2018 en xifres 102-7 6th largest insurance 7.621 17.801 group in Spain employees brokers 1.649 4 million 2nd largest credit 50 countries offices customers insurance group in the world No. 1 Net Consolidated Traditional business (53.6%) revenue profit recurring profit No. 4 4.345,2M€ +2,1% 386,4M€ +8,1% 195,7M€ +9,3% (8.9%) No. 4 No. 6 (6.0%) (5.9%) Credit insurance Shareholder No. 10 recurring profit remuneration (2.6%) No. 9 (1.9%) 200,9M€ +5,8% 98,7M€ +6,1% Life Non-life Multi-risk Motor Health Credit insurance Grupo Catalana Occidente | 6 Contents / Introduction / About this Report / GRI table of contents / Materiality table GRI SDG Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate Responsibility in Grupo Catalana Occidente 04 Our environment 1.2 Business Model Distribution of premiums Credit insurance business 102-2, 102-7 Life In terms of credit insurance, the company Atradius Crédito y 36.7% Caución, of Grupo Catalana Occidente, offers products and serMulti-risk The purpose of the group is based on leadership in the protecTraditional 25.4% vices that contribute to the growth of companies throughout tion and long-term provision for families and businesses in insurance Motor the world, protecting them from the risks of non-payment inSpain, through its traditional business, and in the coverage of 25.7% herent in the sale of products and services with deferred paycommercial credit risk at an international level, through the Various ment. This business is structurally linked to economic develcredit business. 12.1% opment and, in particular, the evolution of default and the volume of trade at the global level. Traditional business The profit from the credit insurance business for 2018 represents Distribution by technical result The traditional business provides families and small and me41.5%, standing at the amount of 200.9 million euros. dium-sized businesses with a wide range of insurance products to cover any need, at any stage of life. It is provided through Life The lines of business it offers are: the companies Seguros Catalana Occidente, Plus Ultra Seguros, 30.1% Seguros Bilbao and NorteHispana Seguros, who serve their Multi-risk customers through a network of professional brokers and 1,649 Traditional 32.1% Business of offices throughout Spain. insurance Motor credit insurance Surety insurance Reinsurance 15.4% Various Protects against Protects the Wide range of The lines included in the traditional business are as follows: 22.5% financial losses beneficiary if the reinsurance resulting from the supplier fails to solutions for inability of a buyer meet its contractual insurance companies to pay for goods obligations of the main insurers Multi-risk Motor purchased on credit in the world Family-home, business, Products and services related to Distribution of premiums in credit insurance communities, offices automobiles or transport fleets and SMEs Collection Credit insurance Global unit Special products 73.6% Various Life Surety insurance 6.8% Tailored solutions Helps companies to Structured credit risk Credit Accepted reinsurance on a global basis collect domestic and solutions for specific for multinational international debts complex operations Industrial products, engineering, Products in life insurance, endowinsurance 6.5% accidents and civil liability ment, pension plans and investcompanies whilst maintaining ment funds, as well as funeral and Information good business health expenses revenue 6.9% relationships with Additional activities their customers revenue The profit of the traditional business accounts for 58.5% of the 6.2% total figure for the group and is distributed as indicated below. Grupo Catalana Occidente | 7 Contents / Introduction / About this Report / GRI table of contents / Materiality table GRI SDG Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate Responsibility in Grupo Catalana Occidente 04 Our environment Strategy Innovation 102-7, 103-2, 103-3 103-2, 103-3 Grupo Catalana Occidente bases its strategy on three pillars: growth, profitability and solvency, which are implemented through Grupo Catalana Occidente focuses its transformation plan in 9 lines of action. three main areas: culture, supply and the customer. The Group believes that a culture that embraces change and Strategic pillars 2018 Achievements 2019 Guidelines also encourages and motivates innovation among its employees is the fundamental basis for being able to adapt the supply Growth • 2.1% increase in business volume, • Increase the scale of the agencies and of products and services to the needs of all types of customer. Definition of the markets which the Group targets, reaching 4,345.2 million euros enhance specialist networks As a result, various initiatives designed to achieve this objective development of appropriate products and services • Increase the number of customers • Progress in accessibility: have been launched since 2016. and establishment of appropriate distribution and the satisfaction index digitalisation/connectivity channels to reach the customer • Acquisition agreement for Antares, • Prioritise the “customer concept” in management gaining presence in the health field In 2018, innovation was increased with an additional 23% investment in R&D compared to the previous year, reaching 57.3 million euros. At Grupo Catalana Occidente, various projects Profitability • 8.1% increase in consolidated profit, • Incorporate variables and processes to have been undertaken aimed at improving the customer exRecurring and sustained profitability through reaching 386.4 million euros enhance customer segmentation technical-actuarial rigour, diversification of • Improvement in recurring profit: • Adapt investment management to the perience, process optimisation and risk minimisation thanks investments and processes that allow adjusted cost -Traditional business with 195.7 liabilities and obligations of the business to the processing of macro data. ratios and a quality service million euros, +9.3% • Progress in the systems integration project -Credit insurance business, with 200.9 million euros, +5.8% 2016 2017 2018 • Excellent combined ratio €44,468,099 €46,406,470 €57,385,674 -91.2% in traditional business (non-life) (-0.2 p.p.). Innovation is up to all of us -75.5% in credit insurance business (+0.3 p.p.) One of the most outstanding initiatives on this path towards • 6.1% increase in shareholder remuneration cultural transformation is an intrapreneurship programme, called Xplora, launched in 2017. This programme brings togethSolvency • AM Best has increased the rating of the main • Make the company attractive to employees er training and a platform that is designed so that employees operating entities in both the traditional • Prioritise the generation and continued growth of Advance innovation by incorporating can propose ideas that allow Grupo Catalana Occidente to imown resources in order to finance the expansion business and credit insurance to “a+” (ICR) it into management prove its products and services. of the Group, ensuring a broad fulfilment of • Moody’s improved the rating of the credit • Strengthen the brand, associating it with commitments made and an adequate return to insurance entities to “A2” with a stable outlook our values as a connecting element shareholders • The Group’s estimated Solvency II In 2018, 420 employees participated in the four “Xpeditions” ratio at the close of 2018 is 211% on the Xplora platform, where a total of 273 ideas were presented. Moreover, 95% of the employees who formed part of some of the “Xpeditions” rated this initiative as good or very good. Grupo Catalana Occidente | 8 Contents / Introduction / About this Report / GRI table of contents / Materiality table GRI SDG Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate Responsibility in Grupo Catalana Occidente 04 Our environment 420 participants 1.3 Corporate Governance In 2018, the Group continued to strive towards a model of corporate governance aligned with international best practices, focussing on transparency, rigour and accountability. 273 ideas 95% presented satisfaction Corporate governance model 102-18, 103-2, 103-3 Xplora Grupo Catalana Occidente’s governing bodies are intended to provide appropriate management and control structures to Crowdfunding platform for innovation among the employees of Grupo Catalana Occidente. protect the interests of shareholders, monitor the implementation of the strategy and ensure the creation of value and the The core of the strategy: the customer In December 2018, 72% of credit limit applications were proefficient use of resources in a transparent information frameFor Grupo Catalana Occidente, the customer is at the core of its cessed via Atradius Atrium, which is a great success for Atradius. work. strategy, they are what drives all of the innovation processes. Throughout 2018, there has been work to adapt and improve Big data: taking advantage of technology opportunities The Group applies the recommendations of the Code of Good the different tools and channels in order to be prepared and In the insurance sector, big data is extremely important because Governance of the National Securities Market Commission streamlined when responding to consumer needs. large amounts of data available for analysis can be used to (CNMV) for listed entities as well as advanced practices in corestablish patterns and anticipate the needs of customers, as porate governance. Continuous improvement of operations: Cyber risks well as developing predictive models that allow us to improve Throughout 2018, the cyber risk strategy has been strengthened in risk assessment. Shareholding structure in order to provide a solid level of protection for the company’s information, guaranteeing the control and security of its interIn 2018, the Group designed a unit that will make progress over The main shareholder of Grupo Catalana Occidente is INOC, nal networks and minimising exposure. the coming years in, among other matters, the segmentation S.A., which controls approximately 60.8% of the share capital. of customers through automatic learning methods. The Group has treasury stock of 2,119,698 securities, representNew management tools: Atradius Atrium is a sophisticated ing 1.77% of own shares, through the entity Sogesco. 34.3% is credit insurance policy management tool that brings together Among other advances, a mirror system has been improved free-float, roughly half of this amount is in the hands of instiinformation from the credit insurance policy and business inwith duplicate hardware, data and settings, and sufficient catutional investors. telligence, including the on-line analysis tool, Atradius Insights, pacity to ensure that the company's on-line operations are not into a secure access portal. Atradius Atrium helps minimise interrupted in the event of an emergency, in order to implement the amount of time that a company must dedicate to adminisan improvement in the continuity of its services offered on-line. tration, and allows them to always have access to up-to-date business information. Grupo Catalana Occidente | 9 Contents / Introduction / About this Report / GRI table of contents / Materiality table GRI SDG Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate Responsibility in Grupo Catalana Occidente 04 Our environment Governing bodies Its functioning and activities are regulated by the Articles of Association and the Regulations of the Board of Directors. General Shareholders’ Meeting At the end of 2018, the Board of Directors is comprised of 16 directors of which 10 are nominees and 2 are independent. The representation of women is 6%. Board of Directors Name or business name of director Committees Audit Appointments and Remuneration (representative) Position Category First appointed Committees to which they belong Committee Committee Mr. José María Serra Farré Chairman Executive 1975 GESTIÓN DE ACTIVOS Y VALORES, S.L. Vice-Chairman Nominee 2017 Appointments and RemuManagement Committee neration Committee (Mr. Javier Juncadella Salisachs) Mr. José Ignacio Álvarez Juste Chief Executive Executive 2012 General Shareholders’ Meeting Mr. Francisco José Arregui Laborda Secretary director Executive 1998 The General Meeting is the representative body of the shareMr. Federico Halpern Blasco Director Nominee 1993 holders who make up the share capital of the Group. Its funcMr. Francisco Javier Pérez Farguell Director Independent 2015 Audit Committee, Appointments tioning and activities are governed by the Articles of Association and Remuneration Committee and by the Regulations of the General Shareholders’ Meeting which can be found on the corporate website. Mr. Juan Ignacio Guerrero Gilabert Director Independent 2011 Audit Committee, Appointments and Remuneration Committee Ms. María Assumpta Soler Serra Director Nominee 2009 Board of Directors Mr. Hugo Serra Calderón Director Executive 2013 405-1 Mr. Jorge Enrich Izard Director Nominee 1993 The Board of Directors is the highest management and superJUSAL, S.L. (Mr. José María Juncadella Sala) Director Nominee 2010 visory body in the Company and the Group. The guiding prinCOTYP, S.L. (Mr. Alberto Thiebaut Estrada) Director Nominee 2012 ciple of its activities is to delegate the day-to-day management to the management team and concentrate its activity on overVILLASA, S.L. (Mr. Fernando Villavecchia Director Nominee 1997 sight, which includes, among others: Obregón) • Strategic responsibility, consisting of guiding the Group's INVERSIONES GIRÓ GODÓ, S.L. Director Nominee 2007 policies. (Mr. Enrique Giró Godó) • Oversight responsibility, to control management. ENSIVEST BROS 2014, S.L. Director Nominee 2015 • Communication responsibility, to serve as a link to share(Mr. Jorge Enrich Serra) holders. LACANUDA CONSELL, S.L. Director Nominee 2010 Audit Committee (Mr. Carlos Federico Halpern Serra) Grupo Catalana Occidente | 10 Contents / Introduction / About this Report / GRI table of contents / Materiality table GRI SDG Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate Responsibility in Grupo Catalana Occidente 04 Our environment Delegate Committees Grupo Catalana Occidente Management Committee The Board of Directors has two delegate committees: the Audit Committee and the Appointments and Remuneration Committee. Traditional business Credit insurance business Audit Committee Seguros Plus Ultra Seguros NorteHispana Atradius Atradius Aside from the responsibilities assigned previously and conCatalana Occidente Seguros Bilbao Seguros Crédito y Caución Re tained in the Regulations of the Board of Directors, from the year 2016 and in relation to the Corporate Responsibility Policy, the Group has attributed to the Audit Committee responsibility for monitoring strategy and corporate responsibility practices and assessing its level of compliance. The Audit Committee meets on a monthly basis. Management Committee brokers and associates of Grupo Catalana Occidente in its daily work, with regard to its relationships and interactions with all Appointments and Remuneration Committee Grupo Catalana Occidente has a corporate Management stakeholders. The Appointments and Remuneration Committee ensures, Committee that governs and coordinates the day-to-day manamong other matters, that the candidate selection process does agement of the Group. In addition, the main insurance entities The Code incorporates the principles of the Group and is availnot suffer from implicit bias that hinders the selection of female that are part of the Group have their own Management able on the corporate website www.grupocatalanaoccidente.com directors, raising proposals or informing the Board of Directors, Committees. where appropriate, with complete objectivity and respect for General Principles the principle of equality between men and women, as regards The Group's corporate governance not only encompasses the their professional conditions, experience and knowledge. Board of Directors and other governing bodies, but also extends • Integrity and honesty to all aspects of the organisation and management teams. To • Impartiality Self-evaluation of the Board and Committees ensure that positions are filled by the correct people, the Group • Transparency and confidentiality has a Remuneration Policy and Policy on Suitability and Good • Professionalism Following the good corporate governance recommendations Repute. • Corporate social responsibility of the CNMV, during 2018 an external evaluation was carried out by KPMG, in its capacity as independent expert, on the funcEthical Framework Atradius Crédito y Caución, due to its unique nature, has its tioning of the Board of Directors, the Delegate Committees and 102-16, 103-2, 103-3 own Code of Conduct that observes the guidelines defined in the performance of the Chairman. The result was positive, the Group’s Code of Ethics. highlighting both the suitability of the procedures and the The Group has a code of ethics that encourages responsible and functioning of the bodies. transparent management, considers people to be its greatest In 2018, Grupo Catalana Occidente has continued to disseminate More information on corporate governance is available in the asset, and puts the customer at the heart of its activity. its code of ethics among all employees, it being required readAnnual Report 2018 (p. 42-44 and p. 199). ing and acceptance for all people who work in its companies. The Group's Code of Ethics, prepared and approved by the Board of Directors, is the document that establishes the guidelines that must govern the ethical behaviour of directors, employees, Grupo Catalana Occidente | 11 Contents / Introduction / About this Report / GRI table of contents / Materiality table GRI SDG Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate Responsibility in Grupo Catalana Occidente 04 Our environment Complaints Channel Atradius Crédito y Caución also has its own structure which In 2018, 72 cases of breaches, irregularities and fraud, valued Employees have a confidential complaint channel accessible includes both the compliance function at the entity level as well at 426,000 euros, were reported to Corporate Internal Auditing. from the intranet of each company in the Group. as the functions of local compliance and support of the entity in its compliance with the applicable laws, rules and regulations. During 2018, 816 employees received training in money launComplaints regarding violations of the Code of Ethics are govdering and the fight against corruption and bribery. erned by the relevant provisions in the Procedure in the event In terms of the entities of Grupo Catalana Occidente in Spain, of irregularities and fraud (complaints channel). Once the comthe following tools and procedures are available: Internal control plaint has been received, a first analysis of its relevance is The system is based on a strong control culture, where the funcarried out and it is forwarded to the Human Resources departPrevention of Money Laundering damental principles are clearly defined and communicated to ment. In cases that apply to employees and involve damages The Group has a Prevention of money laundering and terrorist all levels of the organisation. The internal control system is to the company of more than €20,000, an audit report will be financing manual, as well as control processes that integrate subject to an independent monitoring process to verify that it issued. all the computer procedures for purchasing policies, these being is operating correctly over time. The comprehensive monitorapplicable to all employees and brokers of the entities of Grupo ing of the system is carried out by internal audit. The main principles contained in the Group's Code are those of Catalana Occidente based in Spanish territory. integrity and honesty, which implies the avoidance of any form Within the control environment, the Group emphasises the of corruption, implementing the necessary measures to combat The measures implemented by the Group are subject to annual controls over financial and property investments. In this regard, this. analysis by an external expert who prepares a report and rules there is monthly monitoring of the concentration and dispersion whether the Group has a satisfactory money laundering preof fixed income and equity, average rating of the portfolio, exIn 2018, 74 communications were received through the ethical vention system. posures by rating (their changes and reasons for them), evoluchannel. tion of the optional nature of assets according to interest rates The Board of Directors examines this report together with proand control of underlying assets. Compliance and prevention posals for possible improvements. During 2018 the Group pro103-2, 103-3 vided training to 1,703 employees on this subject. Progress in improving the quality of the risk map continued to be made in 2018. In total, the Group has more than 5,000 Operating in a highly regulated sector means that the function Fight against fraud and corruption internal controls. of verifying regulatory compliance is essential, ensuring the The Group has procedures to combat fraud that contribute to effectiveness and efficiency of the Group's operations, the reidentifying potential malicious actions or omissions in taking liability of its financial information and the protection of its out insurance, lodging claims or the accreditation of damages assets. and losses, with the aim of obtaining improper benefits, money laundering or unjust enrichment. This function ensures compliance with the obligations that affect the Group’s organisation, which includes both mandatoAny employee in Spain can bring behaviour that could lead to ry regulations and those assumed voluntarily, including the criminal acts to the attention of the internal audit department legal, regulatory and administrative stipulations that affect through the complaints channel. the Group, as well as its own internal regulations. Grupo Catalana Occidente | 12 Contents / Introduction / About this Report / GRI table of contents / Materiality table GRI SDG Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate Responsibility in Grupo Catalana Occidente 04 Our environment Risk Management Model Risk Management System Transparency 103-2, 103-3 103-2, 103-3 The governance of the Grupo Catalana Occidente risk management system is implemented following the “three lines of defence” The strategy and risk management policies of Grupo Catalana principle, as shown in the image above: In order to be accountable to their stakeholders, Grupo Catalana Occidente fall under the responsibility of the Board of Directors Through the application of this principle, the Group’s own orOccidente makes available both financial and non-financial of the Company. ganisational structure carries out a clear allocation and segreinformation through various documents available on the corgation of responsibilities with regard to risk management. porate website www.grupocatalanaoccidente.com A similar governance structure is repeated within each of the Annual Report 1st line of defence Group’s entities, ensuring that decisions relating to risk are Each year Grupo Catalana Occidente publishes its annual report, Responsible for risk assumed and its management. taken in a controlled manner and that their management is prepared in accordance with the framework of information of present throughout the organisation. the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) and based Grupo Catalana Occidente Management Committee on the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Risk strategy The report contains the consolidated financial statements, the Grupo Catalana Occidente defines its risk strategy as the level corporate governance report and the management report, which Traditional Credit insurance business business of risks that the entities that form it are willing to take on. Its this year includes the statement of non-financial information integration within the business plan enables it to comply with in compliance with Law 11/2018. the risk appetite, tolerance and limits approved by the Board of Directors. Quarterly report Seguros Plus Ultra Atradius Within the quarterly earnings reports there is an annex with Catalana Occidente Seguros Crédito y Caución Risk management policies information on corporate responsibility and the activity of the A structure of risk management policies has been established Fundación Jesús Serra. Seguros NorteHispana Atradius Re Bilbao Seguros to ensure supervision through its measurement, monitoring and information. During 2018, the Group improved the definiFiscal Transparency tion of the risk appetite and tolerance. In January 2017 the Group's Corporate Tax Policy was updated. 2nd line of defence. Define controls that ensure compliance with processes and risk management policies. The objective of this policy is to describe the strategy to meet The risk appetite is defined as the risk in solvency terms that its tax obligations in all the countries and territories in which Verification of Risk Actuarial the entities forming part of the Group expect to accept in order it operates, as well as maintaining an appropriate relationship Management control compliance role role role to achieve their objectives. Tolerance refers to the maximum with the tax agencies concerned. deviation from the appetite that it is willing to assume (tolerate). The Group promotes transparent, clear and responsible com3rd line of defence. Carry out independent evaluations on the effectiveFor more information on risk management see p.46-48 of the munication of its main tax figures by providing its different ness of the governance system, the risk management system and Annual Report 2018. stakeholders with information concerning the payment of all internal control. taxes that are applicable in each of the jurisdictions in which it is present. Internal audit role Grupo Catalana Occidente | 13 Contents / Introduction / About this Report / GRI table of contents / Materiality table GRI SDG Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate Responsibility in Grupo Catalana Occidente 04 Our environment Corporate responsibility policy 102-11, 102-16 In February 2018 the Board of Directors approved the Grupo Catalana Occidente Corporate Responsibility Policy. Its essential principles are the same as those set out in the Code of Ethics. Through this policy, the Group wants to contribute to the folCorporate responsibility in lowing objectives: Grupo Catalana Occidente • Carry out its activities and those of the entities that make up the Group under the criteria of responsibility, ethics, transparency and commitment. • Maximise the creation of sustainable social value for its stakeholders across three dimensions of corporate For Grupo Catalana Occidente, corporate responsibility is the responsibility: economic, social and environmental. voluntary commitment to integrate into its strategy responsi• Prevent, minimise and mitigate potential negative imble management with regards to economic, social and envipacts on social and environmental matters arising from ronment factors, promote ethical behaviour within its stakeits activities. holders, rigorously apply the principles of good governance, • Contribute to improving the reputation of the Group and and contribute to the wellbeing of society through the creation the entities that comprise it. of sustainable social value. In addition, it defines the stakeholders and outlines specific Social value is the result of not only focusing the Group's activcommitments in relation to them. ity on obtaining good financial results, but also promoting the wellbeing of stakeholders that are part of it and those to which The Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. Board of Directors is rethe Group’s entities answer. This value becomes sustainable sponsible for establishing and guiding corporate social responwhen it is integrated not only in the short term, but also in the sibility strategy, which acts in a cross-cutting manner and medium and long term. involves all areas of business. The body responsible for promoting this function is the Corporate Responsibility Committee, The companies in Grupo Catalana Occidente contribute to imwhich is linked to the Management Committee through the proving social and economic conditions in the regions in which Office of the Chairman. This Committee is made up of the heads they operate. The very nature of insurance implies the concept of the different areas that represent stakeholders. of social responsibility, because it is about supporting customers at every moment of their professional and personal lives, anticipating risks to protect them. Corporate responsibility in Grupo Catalana Occidente | 14 Contents / Introduction / About this Report / GRI table of contents / Materiality table GRI SDG Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate Responsibility in Grupo Catalana Occidente 04 Our environment Atradius Crédito y Caución, in addition to integrating the Group's 2.1 Materiality In order to identify the key issues for Grupo Catalana Occidente policy, has also published its own declaration of corporate reand its stakeholders, a materiality analysis was performed for 102-43, 102-46, 102-49 sponsibility on its website, outlining its commitments to socithe first time in 2017. ety (https://group.atradius.com/about-us/corporate-responsibility.html). Coverage* In 2018, the Corporate Responsibility Committee met four times, Origin Involvement** during which, among other matters, it defined the Corporate Responsibility Master Plan 2019-2021. Material issues GRI standards Internal External Direct Indirect External initiatives Economic, profitability and GRI 201: Economic performance 2016 solvency performance 102-12, 102-13, 103-2, 103-3 Risk management and GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 regulatory compliance GRI 307: Environmental compliance 2016 Externally, Grupo Catalana Occidente maintains its adherence to the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact and GRI 419: Socio-economic compliance 2016 is committed to aligning its strategies and operations with these Corporate Governance GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 universally accepted principles in four areas: human rights, Ethics, integrity and GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 labour standards, environment and corruption. transparency GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 GRI 206: Anti-competitive behaviour 2016 In addition, through its current activity and social action, it also Customer experience N/A supports the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) promoting Data Protection. Cyber Security GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016 aspects such as economic growth and progress, equal opportunities, quality learning, energy efficiency and the care of Innovation N/A health and well-being through risk prevention and protection. It also contributes to creating sustainable communities where Quality employment GRI 401: Employment 2016 its entities operate through responsible production and conGRI 402: Labour/Management relations 2016 sumption, creating wealth and employment, which contributes GRI 405: Diversity and equal opportunities 2016 to reducing inequality, and contributing to peace, justice and GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 strong institutions. GRI 407: Freedom of association and collective bargaining 2016 In Spain, moreover, the Group's companies are involved in the Professional development GRI 404: Training and education 2016 main associations in the sector (ICEA and UNESPA), which have Commitment to society GRI 203: Indirect economic impacts 2016 corporate responsibility programmes. GRI 413: Local communities 2016 * Coverage: Indicates whether the impact is internal, external or both Direct: The organisation is directly linked to the impact ** Involvement: Indicates the involvement of the organisation in terms of the impact. Indirect: The organisation is linked to the impact through its business relations N/A: not applicable Corporate responsibility in Grupo Catalana Occidente | 15 Contents / Introduction / About this Report / GRI table of contents / Materiality table GRI SDG Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate Responsibility in Grupo Catalana Occidente 04 Our environment Identification of material issues 2.2 Corporate Responsibility • Maintaining a constant dialogue with stakeholders to The issues that are material for the Group were identified detect their needs and expectations. through the analysis of different leading sources of information Plan for the sector. These include the analysis of competing compa2. Excellence in service: the basis of the insurance business lies nies, as well as Think Tanks and guidelines such as the European The Grupo Catalana Occidente Corporate Responsibility Plan in the desire to provide a service, offering high quality products Directive on reporting of non-financial information and diverfor the 2019-2021 period is based on the Group’s purpose and adapted to the needs of customers and completely customised sity. In addition, the matrix of materiality of the Sustainable is governed by its essential principles: integrity and honesty, professional advice through its employees and network of asAccounting Standard Board (SASB) for insurance has been taken sociates. impartiality, transparency and confidentiality, and professioninto account. Once these material issues were identified, an alism. internal assessment was carried out through interviews with The specific objectives for this area are: directors and members of the Group’s Management Committee, along with an external assessment based on the criteria and The objectives of this Corporate Responsibility Plan are as fol• Continue being a benchmark in the insurance sector and lows: leaders in customer satisfaction. aspects evaluated in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index questionnaire and analysis of the maturity of the aspects in eight • To offer a common framework in the field of corporate • Implementing the digital transformation throughout the responsibility for the entities forming part of Grupo CataGroup and taking advantage of its benefits to improve companies in the sector. In the final phase, the Corporate lana Occidente. efficiency. Responsibility Committee validated the results of the analysis undertaken, reaching a consensus on 10 material aspects, which • To promote those lines of corporate responsibility that • Applying environmental, social and corporate support the Group’s strategic objectives and respond to governance (ESG) principles in the management of were subsequently submitted and approved by the Grupo the challenges identified, both those of the insurance investments. Catalana Occidente Management Committee. sector and those specific to Grupo Catalana Occidente. • To progress in the commitments made to the stakehold3. Positive impact: Grupo Catalana Occidente bases its business Determination of contents ers in the corporate responsibility policy. model on respecting people and maximising the creation of 102-44, 102-46, 102-47, 103-1 • To establish a work programme for the defined period sustainable social value for its stakeholders across three diand responsible parties. mensions of corporate responsibility: economic, social and The Group's definition of materiality covers critical issues and environmental. matters of high relevance. For each of these, their related GRI The Plan has been structured identifying three fundamental standards and the indicators to be reported have been identified, areas: trust, excellence in service and positive impact; and one The specific objectives for this area are: along with the Sustainable Development Goals related to each parallel cross-cutting area, namely dissemination and report• Being a model company in the well-being of its employof them. ing. Specific objectives have been established for each area for ees. (See materiality table GRI-SDG, page 41) the 2019-2021 period. • Promoting the Group’s social action through Fundación Jesús Serra and a volunteering plan. 1. Trust: the insurance business of Grupo Catalana Occidente • Including products with added value in its portfolio of is based on a trust factor that defines its relationship with its products and services. stakeholders. Retaining this trust is essential for ensuring the Group’s sustainability over time. In parallel, a cross-cutting area has been defined, called disThe specific objectives for this area are: semination and reporting, which aims to improve both internal • Being recognised as an honest company that is commitand external communication. ted to its cultural values/keys. Corporate responsibility in Grupo Catalana Occidente | 16 Contents / Introduction / About this Report / GRI table of contents / Materiality table GRI SDG Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate Responsibility in Grupo Catalana Occidente 04 Our environment Basic principles of the Corporate Responsibility Plan Integrity Transparency and and honesty Impartiality confidentiality Professionalism 2019-2021 Corporate Responsibility Plan Regulatory Fundamental areas changes 1. 2. 3. Employees Trust Excellence in service Positive impact Sector challenges Adapting to demand Complying with the commitments made Health and well-being Ethics and Integrity Digital transformation Customers Drive towards Technological Formalising investment the desired evolution in the community and situation: Shareholders volunteering and Investors Data New ways Grupo Catalana Occidente Cultural keys wants to be a benchmark protection of working Products that generate for good governance and added social value responsible management Brokers in the insurance sector, recognised by its values Relationship model with Socially responsible and its commitment to the stakeholders investment Environmental awareness stakeholders. GCO challenges Coexistence of Associates and generations suppliers Cross-cutting areas Encourage Society communication Dissemination and reporting through communication Growth Profitability Solvency Supporting the strategic pillars of Grupo Catalana Occidente Corporate responsibility in Grupo Catalana Occidente | 17 Contents / Introduction / About this Report / GRI table of contents / Materiality table GRI SDG Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate Responsibility in Grupo Catalana Occidente 04 Our environment Chapter in which performance Stakeholders Commitments is reported Employees • Equal opportunities 3.1 • Fair wages Employees: • Ongoing training our most important asset • Work-life balance Commitment to our Customers • Development of competitive products 3.2 Customers: at • Personal advice the heart of stakeholders • Excellence in service our activity • Preserve confidentiality of personal data 103-2, 103-3 Shareholders • Attractive return 3.3 and Investors on investment Shareholders: • Prudent risk management the key to Grupo Catalana Occidente has made a commitment to its stakesustainability • Transparency of holders, meaning that it maintains a continual and transparent information dialogue to allow them to understand and integrate themselves • Long-term strategy into the company's activity. Distributors/ • Continuous support for 3.4 Brokers professional development Intermediaries: The relationship with the different stakeholders involves the and training agents and implementation of specific commitments based on the Group’s • Pay equity brokers cultural keys, which define its way of being and of working: • Trust and security people, commitment, self-criticism, austerity, long-term vision and innovation. Associates and • Objectivity and 3.5 suppliers impartiality in selection Suppliers: These commitments are defined in the Corporate Responsibility and recruitment service Policy and will determine the strategy in this area. Complying • Transparency in providers management with them is one of the objectives of the Corporate Responsibility • Equal treatment Plan. Society • Proactive cooperation 3.6 with sectoral entities Society The various sections in this chapter detail the Group's manage• Contribution through ment in line with these commitments, and present the indicaFundación Jesús Serra tors that allow current performance to be measured and set • Cooperative relations goals for the future. with tax administrations 102-40 Commitments to our interest groups | 18 Contents / Introduction / About this Report / GRI table of contents / Materiality table GRI SDG Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate Responsibility in Grupo Catalana Occidente 04 Our environment Channels of communication, participation and dialogue 102-42, 102-43, 103-2, 103-3 3.1 Employees: our most important asset Stakeholders Channels of communication Grupo Catalana Occidente has identified six stakeholders based on the impact that the Group has on them and the relevance of Employees • Intranet each one to the company. • Bulletin boards and suggestion boxes 102-8, 103-2, 103-3 • Workers’ representatives There are various channels for communication, participation • Complaints Channel The team is the most important asset when it comes to creating and dialogue made available to these audiences to ensure advalue for the customers and shareholders of the Group's entities. Customers • Website equate attention. These include the Group's website, as well as This is why Grupo Catalana Occidente emphasises continuous • Social media that of each of its companies and the Fundación Jesús Serra, learning, a good work-life balance, equal opportunities, team • Customer service department where we publish the most relevant documents such as the • Satisfaction surveys spirit and dialogue. Annual Report, the Foundation’s activity report and this • Offices and brokers Corporate Responsibility Report. • e-client The pillars of the human resources policy are: • Fair and competitive remuneration There are also dedicated helplines and email addresses for Shareholders and Investors • Corporate website • Transparency and truthful information customer service, analysts and investors, shareholders and the • General Shareholders’ Meeting • Respect for the dignity of persons media. Internal communication is carried out through compa• • Roadshows Analysts and investors area and • Sustained cooperation over time ny Intranets. shareholders' attention area At the end of 2018, the Group had 7,621 employees, a figure that These are used to maintain a smooth, close and transparent Distributors/Brokers • Internal portal has been growing steadily over the past three years. Of that relationship with the stakeholders. In addition, the various • Training workshops total, approximately 51% corresponds to employees in the trachannels allow the Group to identify the needs and expectations • Complaints Channel ditional business and 49% to the credit business. By gender, of all of them and thus be able to respond to them. • Corporate app 52% of employees are male, compared to 48% female. Associates and • Intranet suppliers • Annual meetings • Complaints Channel • Prepersa website Number of employees 7,621 Society • Corporate website 7,570 • Social media 7,139 +1% • Fundación Jesús Serra Website +6% • Media 2016 2017 2018 Commitments to our interest groups | 19 Contents / Introduction / About this Report / GRI table of contents / Materiality table GRI SDG Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate Responsibility in Grupo Catalana Occidente 04 Our environment Distribution of staff by age and gender 102-8, 405-1 Distribution of staff by age and gender* Directors 15% 85% 118 > 50 years 40% 60% 2,793 Middle management and 31% 69% 1,523 40-49 years 52% 48% 2,538 technical supervision Qualified administration 50% 50% 4,364 30-39 years 53% 47% 1,714 and sales Administrative support 75% 25% 823 < 30 years 54% 46% 576 ** Represents 91% of staff Women Men ** Covers 100% of staff Women Men Distribution of staff by type of contract and gender** Distribution of staff by type of work schedule and gender** Temporary contract Part time 59% 41% 292 84% 16% 1,022 Permanent contract 48% 52% 7,329 Full time 43% 57% 6,599 ** Represents 100% of staff Women Men ** Covers 100% of staff Women Men Voluntary turnover by age and 2017 2018 There are currently two generations coexisting within the Group's companies: people gender Men Women Total employees Men Women Total employees who have spent more than twenty to thirty years working for the company, possess< 30 years 40% 44% 42% 36% 31% 34% ing valuable knowledge, and another generation of younger professionals, who have 30-39 years 14% 20% 17% 18% 18% 18% joined in recent years and bring new skills to the team. Collaboration between the 40-49 years 9% 11% 10% 7% 14% 11% two is key to the success of the business. > 50 years 4% 7% 5% 8% 11% 9% Total 10% 15% 12% 12% 16% 14% In 2018, 841 people joined the Group, of whom 56% were women. Voluntary turnover is of the same level as last year and stands at 14%, thus reflecting the Group's comTurnover by business 2017 2018 mitment to provide stable and quality employment. 401-1 and gender * Men Women Turnover Men Women Turnover Traditional business 13% 21% 17% 15% 23% 19% Credit business 7% 6% 7% 7% 6% 7% Total turnover 10% 15% 12% 12% 16% 14% * Turnover is calculated as the total number of people leaving the company divided by the total number of employees. * The data cover 89% of staff. Commitments to our interest groups | 20 Contents / Introduction / About this Report / GRI table of contents / Materiality table GRI SDG Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate Responsibility in Grupo Catalana Occidente 04 Our environment Culture Project 102-16, 103-2 Atradius Crédito y Caución climate survey 2016 saw the start of the Culture Project, where the first objecSince 2006 Atradius has performed an annual climate survey among its employees. This tive was to identify the cultural keys of Grupo Catalana Occidente. survey allows the company to understand the perspective of employees, and offers practical These keys define the common values that explain the Group's information to identify areas for improvement and design corrective actions. In this way, it way of being and working and that of its entities. focuses on caring for people, a key aspect of the Evolve+ project. Cultural keys • Persons Equal opportunities e) Promote a balance between the professional, personal • Commitment 103-2, 103-3 and family lives of the staff. • Austerity • Long-term vision • Self-criticism In line with its Code of Ethics, the Group does not tolerate any It is worth mentioning that the composition of the workforce • Innovation kind of discrimination due to birth, sex, religion, opinion or is generally balanced in gender. Although positions of greater any other personal or social condition or circumstance. It also responsibility are mostly occupied by men, during recent years In 2018, the Group continued to deploy the cultural keys in the guarantees respect for human rights. there has been a positive trend towards achieving a balance. organisation as a whole. In particular, workshops were given that involved the participation of over 300 employees from the In addition, several of the entities have an equality plan and The Group also ensures that people with disabilities are emhighest levels of responsibility. In 2017, the focus was the key protocol for the prevention and response to sexual harassment ployed. At the close of the year, 42 people with different disato innovation and in 2018, the focus was on the key people. and bullying. The Spanish Equal Opportunities Commission bilities formed part of the Group’s workforce. is responsible for ensuring compliance with this. As an example of good practice within the Group, Atradius In compliance with the General Law on Disability, direct hiring Crédito y Caución is developing the project Evolve+, the aim of The general objectives of these plans are to: is supplemented with alternative measures such as the purwhich is to enhance innovation and improve the connection a) Promote the principle of equal treatment between men chasing of goods and services from special employment comwith customers in a personal and significant way. Evolve+ is and women, ensuring the same professional opportunipanies whose workforces are formed mainly by people with the continuation of the Evolve initiative, which was launched ties in employment, recruitment, remuneration, training, disabilities. in 2012 in order to support the entity’s business strategy, endevelopment, promotion and working conditions. couraging staff to participate in its continuous improvement, b) Guarantee the absence of discrimination, direct or indiIn 2018, the Group recorded 4 cases of discrimination through increasing efficiency and raising the quality of customer service. rect, due to gender, and especially related to maternity, the channels available. All have been investigated and resolved. paternity, the assumption of family responsibilities, No complaints have been received about human rights. 406-1 marital status and working conditions. c) Prevent all types of harassment, especially sexual harassment and harassment based on gender, introducing a code of conduct to protect the entire staff. d) Use communication actions to promote awareness of equal opportunities at all organisational levels. Commitments to our interest groups | 21 Contents / Introduction / About this Report / GRI table of contents / Materiality table GRI SDG Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate Responsibility in Grupo Catalana Occidente 04 Our environment Professional development Training by category and gender (hours) 404-1 2017 2018 103-2, 103-3 Professional appraisal Directors 5,886 6,761 Grupo Catalana Occidente is committed to the professional de% Women 25.5% 33.1% In 2018, a professional appraisal system was velopment of its employees, strengthening the skills of new Middle management and technical supervision 30,521 23,745 implemented in the traditional business for generations of professionals who, in the mid to long term, will executives, technicians, staff with % Women 26.6% 39.1% occupy positions of responsibility, and updating the skills of development potential and new joiners. more veteran professionals, to help them adapt to the new chalQualified admin. and sales 47,664 50,198 lenges of the business environment. % Women 47.8% 33.7% The process consists of four phases: selfDuring 2018 the Group has maintained its training activities Administrative support 17,002 19,215 evaluation, evaluation by the manager, focusing on professional development, in line with the Training % Women 64.4% 56.4% personal interview and personalised Plan. The training plan is established annually and prepared improvement plan. based on the Group’s Strategic Plan and the questionnaires for Total hours 101,073 99,919 the analysis of training needs sent to each general sub-direc* Note on scope of classification: traditional business. Total hours credit insurance: 41,775 torate. From next year, the specific training needs deriving 2017 2018 from professional assessments will also be considered. Number of courses (traditional business) 1,800 1,217 It is also worth mentioning the creation of the Training and Professional Development Committee, formed by the head of tablishment of professional development pathways. There has Professional Development and the heads of training from the also been work on a Managerial Skills Model in which nine different companies, and whose main purpose is to identify managerial skills have been identified that represent the leadprofessional potential and improve the skills required at the ership style, which is understood to be in line with the Group’s organisation. cultural keys and will be developed in the management training programmes. In 2018, two management sessions were held In the case of the credit business, it has “Atradius Academy”, a in which aspects related to people management were worked learning platform available to all credit business employees on in a way which is fully aligned with the Group's cultural where they can find a wide selection of on-line courses. This keys. year, the platform’s strategy has been updated and new courses have been included. In 2019 the Development Plan will move forward with the mission to strengthen the system of professional development and In total we have carried out more than 136,000 hours of traintalent management, prioritising the identification of career ing, an average of 19.6 hours per employee. potential and improving required skills in the organisation, while also promoting a collaborative culture. Throughout 2018, a common job grading model was developed for all companies as a necessary management tool for the esCommitments to our interest groups | 22 Contents / Introduction / About this Report / GRI table of contents / Materiality table GRI SDG Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate Responsibility in Grupo Catalana Occidente 04 Our environment Fair wages Different conventions apply, depending on the entity, to estabThe aim of such policies is to facilitate the balance between 102-41, 201-1, 405-2 work, personal and family life, for employees, while also enlish salary bands to ensure internal equity and competitiveness In 2018, a common remuneration policy was developed in the in order to attract talent. hancing productivity and efficiency. traditional business, with a wide variety of flexible payment products including an annual offer of remuneration in shares Work-life balance To achieve this, there are a number of internal protocols that for the staff of the insurance business. A total of 105 Group 103-2, 103-3 seek to meet criteria for the work-life balance, as well as reaemployees have taken advantage of this opportunity, through sonable hours, ergonomics in the workplace, hygienic and enwhich they have received 19,193 shares. Grupo Catalana Occidente, in its commitment to equal opporvironmentally-friendly working conditions, facilities for emtunities and the balance between personal and professional ployee training, strict adherence to current laws and, all in all, In addition, the Group employees have an extensive programme lives, applies the work-life balance policies as laid out in current a healthy working environment and levels of comfort that in of social benefits including pension plans, company cafeteria, conventions, as well as Spanish and European regulations. In turn creates better management of each of the employee posifunding for training of employees (university, MBAs, languagaddition, it offers a flexible schedule that allows employees to tions of the Group. es), help for disabled family members, personal loans, etc. accumulate hours for their future free use. Responsible pension fund In 2017, an investment policy was approved to be applied to the employee pension funds and that, for the first time, includes a clause on socially responsible investment. The Committee controlling the “Grupo Catalana Occidente Employee Pensions, Pension Fund” sees socially responsible investment as a long-term commitment to sustainable investment policies that have a positive impact on society and the environment. They intend to progressively consolidate a line of action to move forward in this regard. As such, the control committee is considering non-financial criteria for the control, measurement and management of risks in investment decisions in its portfolio, taking into account its social responsibility as an institutional investor. In 2018, socially responsible investment clauses were included in the Basque Country pension plans (EPSV) marketed by Seguros Catalana Occidente and Seguros Bilbao. Commitments to our interest groups | 23 Contents / Introduction / About this Report / GRI table of contents / Materiality table GRI SDG Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate Responsibility in Grupo Catalana Occidente 04 Our environment Health and safety 103-2, 103-3 3.2 Customers: at the heart of our The Group's entities adhere to the UNESPA guide to good practices on transparency in the marketing of insurance. activity Entities of Grupo Catalana Occidente have a health and safety Customer experience project service in accordance with current labour legislation. In addi103-2, 103-3 tion, there are internal procedures and regulations related to The Group's commitment to continuous improvement of the the prevention of occupational hazards, including self-proteccustomer experience has once again produced high levels of In 2016 the customer experience project was started, a cross-cuttion plans for all buildings, risk assessments and annual action customer satisfaction and loyalty. ting initiative within the traditional business, the main objecplans. tive of which is to create a customer-focused culture to underThe main objective of the relationship between the entities of stand their needs, measuring opinions during all phases of the At the corporate level, there is a joint health and safety service Grupo Catalana Occidente and their four million customers is so-called Customer Journey and ensuring an optimal, consistthat covers most of the Group's insurance entities, allowing for to offer them competitive products and quality services, based ent and dependable experience regardless of the channel of a more consistent management. Entities that are not covered on personal, transparent and holistic advice. contact. by this service maintain their own or outsourced service, adhering to the criteria of efficiency and specialty. The Group also undertakes to provide insured customers with As a tool to identify initiatives to be developed, we have a graphclear and simple information, as well as resolving any doubts ic representation of the Customer Journey, a journey that shows The intention is to achieve the following occupational health that may arise about the content of their policies and services, the different phases in which customers interact with the comand safety objectives: or in the event of an incident. panies of Grupo Catalana Occidente, with special attention paid to claims interactions. The purpose is to better understand the a) Compliance with the current legislation on occupational This commitment goes hand-in-hand with the nature of insurcustomer at each of these stages, in order to meet their different health and safety and the working conditions of employance, in which the concept of social responsibility is implicit. needs. ees. The goal is to provide its customers with continuous support b) The reduction and elimination of occupational accidents in both their professional and personal life, anticipating the and occupational illnesses in all work centres. risks in order to protect them. c) Develop a health and safety culture based on the consideration of people as its main value. No employee of the Group performs any duty with a high risk Observation Action of contracting certain diseases, and as such there have been no fatalities for reasons of health and safety in the workplace. Understand needs Create culture Record customer input Provide an optimal service Design of all points of contact Improve customer relations with customers Commitments to our interest groups | 24 Contents / Introduction / About this Report / GRI table of contents / Materiality table GRI SDG Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate Responsibility in Grupo Catalana Occidente 04 Our environment Customer experience of traditional business Customer Journey SLP REM 34.1% 91.4% Suggested level Intention of customer Share of promotion to remain Inform Manage (promoters critics) >=3 years CSI SSI 90.3% 62.5 Company Service satisfaction satisfaction index index (satisfied dissatisfied) (satisfied dissatisfied) Sign contract Use Credit insurance Traditional insurance Finalise 97.1% 89% Maintain Customer retention Customer retention rate rate Resolve Discover Compare Customer care 103-3 During 2017, the actions undertaken were grouped into four tomers. In this way, we aim to standardise processes in order Good management of complaints and claims from customers blocks: commercial procedure, claims management, commuto provide the highest level of service through our professionals. is a basic element in the quality of service. Grupo Catalana nications and channels, and customer experience. Occidente has regulations governing customer protection adaptIn order to measure progress with all these initiatives, customed to the requirements of Order ECO/734/2004, 11 March, reIn 2018, new self-service features were developed and impleer input was recorded through various surveys conducted at garding the customer service departments and services of fimented into the e-client tool. The user can now see the status key moments in the customer journey. nancial institutions and the commitments made by the of their claim and keep track of its different phases. Customer insurance sector through the guide to good practices of internal experience guides were also developed for the professionals resolution of claims, as supported by the Spanish Union of providing services to them during a claim, establishing clear Insurers and Reinsurers (UNESPA). protocols on how they should relate to and interact with cusCommitments to our interest groups | 25 Contents / Introduction / About this Report / GRI table of contents / Materiality table GRI SDG Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate Responsibility in Grupo Catalana Occidente 04 Our environment The first step in resolving complaints and claims is to offer the The Group's entities have an information security policy apBoth programs include innovative elements around the creation customer immediate attention from whoever is directly in conproved by the Board of Directors. All employees have to unof policies and the presentation of the value proposition to our tact with them. The staff, as well as all branches and operating dergo training in this area. customers and partners. centres that provide a service to the customer, should strive to deal with these claims and complaints with courtesy and There is a data protection committee in the traditional business The underwriting process also uses an IBM Watson text mining promptness, deciding in favour of the customer whenever they which coordinates and updates data protection audits on an application to optimise manual underwriting. are founded and their scope of responsibility allows them to annual and biannual basis. do so. The professional should adopt measures that minimise The culture of innovation working for the benefit of the the risk of reoccurrence and strive to provide a service that Potential cyber attacks are considered one of the main risks of customer reflects the standards that the customer expects from the entity. the sector. Grupo Catalana Occidente has a Data Protection Officer The Group’s innovation strategy is clearly focused on new ways at Group level and in the main traditional business entities. of improving or expanding its main proposal. We will not outIn the event of complaints and claims that exceed the powers source innovation to a separate centre or incubator, our ambiof the customer service offices and centres, or when they have During 2018, Grupo Catalana Occidente did not receive any tion is to create a culture across the entire organisation of not been able to provide a solution in a manner satisfactory to claims regarding customer privacy or data loss through its learning throughout one’s career and being open to change. the customer, companies have a customer care department and communication channels. To be prudent, we are considering 7 also a customer ombudsman who guarantees their rights. substantiated complaints from 2018 which are currently in the The Atradius Business Transformation programme addresses arguments phase. It should be taken into account that the the need for cooperation and collaboration around new digital During 2018, the Group’s entities received a total of 4,149 claims number of complaints is practically non-existent compared to trends (such as big data and blockchain), and offers staff the through its channels (including those available through custhe customer base of the Group’s companies. opportunity to play a role in these new challenges. tomer care and the customer ombudsman), those related to the credit business entities being included in this figure. 80.86% New solutions Grupo Catalana Occidente has scheduled the introduction of these were admissible, with 31.06% resolved in favour of the throughout 2019 of a mandatory web seminar for all staff called customer, 9.96% by agreement and 58.99% in favour of the entity. On the basis of a deep knowledge of its customers, the Group “Shaping tomorrow together”, whose purpose is linked to preworks to design and offer new products adapted to their needs paring to manage the change necessary to address the chalData Protection to give them confidence. The following initiatives stood out in lenges posed by digitalisation and technology. 103-2, 103-3 2018: Nowadays, the on-line availability of services and products is Grupo Catalana Occidente believes the information that it colAtradius launches CIBT and BBT to facilitate essential in a strategy to attract, satisfy and retain customers, lects, processes, stores and transmits to be a strategic asset, one the underwriting process brokers and agents. that is essential to ensure the continuity and evolution of the Atradius updates its main application for the underwriting of business and safeguard the value it offers to investors, sharepolicies and purchase policies in the credit insurance and bond holders, customers and associates. It is therefore a priority to business lines. These are two different programmes: Credit preserve the confidentiality and protection of this information, Insurance Business Transformation (CIBT) and Bond Business as well as the systems that manage and support it. Transformation (BBT). Commitments to our interest groups | 26 Contents / Introduction / About this Report / GRI table of contents / Materiality table GRI SDG Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate Responsibility in Grupo Catalana Occidente 04 Our environment 3.3 Shareholders: Transparency of information the key to sustainability Grupo Catalana Occidente carries out its business in accordance with, among others, the principles of good governance and corporate responsibility, which implies a continuous improveIn 2018, Grupo Catalana Occidente achieved a good result, taking ment in accessibility, quality, frequency and clarity with its another step forward on the path to profitable growth. Shareholder confidence is key to our sustainability over the main stakeholders. 9 223 long term. As such, the relationship between the Group and its The communication and contact policy with shareholders, inRoadshows and Forums Investor meetings shareholders and investors is based on providing as much institutional investors and voting advisers, published on the formation, transparency and proximity as possible. corporate website, describes the various communication tools and channels to ensure the principles of integrity, transparenDividends: Attractive return on investment 0.8224 cy and equality in relations with these groups. 700+ 0.7751 The Group has two specific areas within the organisation to Calls handled 0.7232 respond to queries from shareholders and institutional inves+6.1% + 7.2% tors, their proposals and expectations on the management in 2016 2017 2018 a close and individualised way. The historical behaviour of the distribution of dividends demonShareholder service: +34 935 820 667 3.4 Intermediaries: agents and strates the Group's clear commitment to shareholder remuneraccionistas@catalanaoccidente.com ation. The total remuneration in the 2018 financial year was brokers 0.82 euros per share, an increase of 6.1% in the total dividend Institutional investors and analysts service: +34 935 820 518 per share. analistas@catalanaoccidente.com Brokers are a key part of the Group's relationship with its enDuring 2018 Grupo Catalana Occidente shares maintained very The latter covers relationships with financial analysts, stock vironment. They come into contact with customers, generate positive growth, with a performance similar to the Eurostoxx market analysts and ratings agencies, since all of their reports confidence in order to understand the particular needs, and Insurance and the Ibex 35. The Grupo Catalana Occidente shares and opinions influence the decision-making process of instiprovide value through their professionalism and closeness. closed 2018 with a price of 32.60. tutional investors. As such, they have a key role in the liquidGood communication and a trusting relationship with brokers ity and price of Grupo Catalana Occidente shares. are fundamental to providing good customer service. The historical behaviour of the distribution of dividends demonIn 2018, the Group put forward its value proposition to the fistrates the Group's clear commitment to shareholder remunernancial markets through the quarterly disclosure of the pubGrupo Catalana Occidente's commercial network of companies ation, maintaining a growing dividends policy over the last 10 lished results, on the website in Spanish and English, and other is made up of 1,649 offices and 17,801 brokers, primarily sole years. actions: agents and insurance brokers, throughout more than 50 countries. 102-8, 102-9 More information about the evolution of shares is available on the Group's corporate website. Commitments to our interest groups | 27 Contents / Introduction / About this Report / GRI table of contents / Materiality table GRI SDG Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate Responsibility in Grupo Catalana Occidente 04 Our environment Distribution network composition Seguros Catalana Occidente 18,910 18,514 17,801 The Catalana Occidente Establishment of • Continued individualised training Professional Agents Programme aims to programmes on products, marketing promote the professional development of its techniques and management. agents and is a pioneer in the insurance sector. • Training and supervision from Day 1. A Its prestige and excellent quality in the team of people to support them and help 1,638 1,648 1,649 professional development of agents enjoys great them achieve their goals. 2016 2017 2018 recognition. It is made up of: • Financial support for seven years. Designed Number of offices to consolidate their income level. Number of brokers Professional development and training Trust and security Broker satisfaction Training of agents is a fundamental value, allowing the Group to build its business through quality of service and customer satisfaction and retention. The Group's companies manifest the values of confidence, peace Grupo Catalana Occidente annually monitors the satisfaction of mind and security that they wish to provide to their clients indicators of its brokers in its traditional business entities. The various companies that make up the Group offer their brothrough the broker network. To do this, they are provided with Through the exclusive agent and broker opinion study carried kers training paths and tools focused on facilitating connecsupport that, in addition to training, includes other tools that out by ICEA, whose last edition took place in October 2018, the tivity and access to services, thereby improving efficiency in have a positive impact on their activity. Among these is the Group ascertained the level of general well-being at work of their work. option to create their own website and social media profile under agents and brokers. the brand with which they work, and the corporate material In 2018, training across the distribution network in traditionnecessary to visually explain their services to the end customThe results from this year conclude that the most highly valued al business was focussed on developing the sales force and ers. concepts are those of competitive products and services, support business growth. Projects included management training and for sales work, training and information, staff contact and efentrepreneurship. Special focus was also given to cross-selling, ficiency in the processing of claims. prevention of cancellations, customer loyalty and the use of new tools and systems. Commitments to our interest groups | 28 Contents / Introduction / About this Report / GRI table of contents / Materiality table GRI SDG Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate Responsibility in Grupo Catalana Occidente 04 Our environment 3.5. Suppliers: Supplier selection procedure service providers Selection Contractual Need Approve arises of suppliers the supplier formalisation The companies in Grupo Catalana Occidente work with two Once the needs have been In the selection process, either Once selected, they must be The contract is formalised that types of suppliers: detected, they must be covered by tender or otherwise, the approved by the managecovers, during the stipulated • General, who supply products and services of a general by the suppliers legal and financial aspects of ment responsible for the time, the services to be nature, not directly related to the business: cleaning, the suppliers are analysed. contract. provided by the supplier. maintenance and IT support. Contracts are reviewed and • Specialist, whose services are essential for the perforvalidated by the legal department of the contracting mance of insurance activity: automobile claims adjusters, entity. general claims adjusters, lawyers, medical claims adjusters, workshops and repairers. The workshops are part of a network named AutoPresto and the repairers are from All suppliers explicitly commit themselves to complying with During 2018, Grupo Catalana Occidente suppliers received a the Technical Repairs Service (S.T.R.). a series of clauses that, in summary, include: total of 17,076 hours of training, representing more than 8 hours per supplier. In this way, and by developing the skills of supThe Group adheres to the criteria contained in its internal reg• Compliance with the Code of Ethics of Grupo Catalana pliers, the company extends its commitments to the supply ulations and, in particular, the supplier selection manual, which Occidente. chain. regulates the acquisition of goods, services and supplies, as • Compliance with the European General Data Protection well as the selection of suppliers. These criteria are based on Regulation. Management of suppliers in the traditional business objectivity, impartiality, transparency, equal treatment and • The obligations of the associate with Tax agencies and 103-2, 103-3, 102-8, 102-9 quality, and try to avoid any conflict of interest or personal, with the Social Security. family or financial ties in the selection of suppliers. • Compliance with the Occupational Risk Prevention ReguPrepersa (Peritación de Seguros y Prevención AIE) is the Grupo lations. Catalana Occidente company that manages specialised suppliThe Manual establishes a classification of suppliers according • Confidentiality for the information collected in the perers in resolving claims, except for lawyers. to criticality and details the selection procedures based on the formance of their work. different types of suppliers. Its activity is governed by the UNE-EN ISO 9001-2015 quality Professional development and training certificate, renewed in 2018, that guarantees that its processes are oriented towards continuous improvement and that it has Most of the Group's strategic suppliers those who supply prodan efficient organisation in terms of planning, control and ucts or services with special characteristics within the sector analysis of results. Additionally, the company ensures respect are internalised or are intra-group services within Grupo for the corporate responsibility commitments of the Group Catalana Occidente itself, allowing for better management of through its extensive network of associates. these. Corporate responsibility in Grupo Catalana Occidente | 29 Contents / Introduction / About this Report / GRI table of contents / Materiality table GRI SDG Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate Responsibility in Grupo Catalana Occidente 04 Our environment The amount of assignments that this entity manages increasSuppliers are continuously evaluated according to different Boost for local businesses es each year. In 2018 they allocated 1,044,467 assignments, an parameters, such as activity, cost, time management, treatment increase of 10.8% compared to 2017. of customers and good practices. The results are presented in The business model implemented, which has been followed for reports that are received by the suppliers and doctors in each decades, favours the contracting of local freelance workers or It is worth mentioning the expansion of the regional structure area. Based on the findings, where necessary an action plan small businesses. In this way, the Group contributes to the dethrough the addition of a new associate monitoring area in is developed, which includes actions of control and supervision. velopment of the business sector in the geographical areas where Levante. In this way, closer control of the activity in the area is In 2018 8,289 supervisory actions were carried out. it operates. guaranteed. Average payment period for suppliers 2017 2018 The Group has no pending payments to suppliers beyond the Satisfied STR customers* 72% 77% legal period allowed (30 days, unless there is an agreement Various adjustment reports 35% between parties), with an average period of 17 days. Satisfied AutoPresto customers* 89% 90% STR 19% In the case of Prepersa, companies pay for network associate 1,044,467 * With regard to the measurement taken in 2017, the source of the data has changed. It was based Car adjustment reports on external surveys but it now uses its own measurement model. Moreover, the data reported tasks twice a month, following quick and rigorous payment Assignments 40% last year followed the satisfied dissatisfied/total customers formula, which does not correspond exactly to satisfied customers, which would be satisfied/total customers, as applied this year. terms. Suppliers have at their disposal an app in which they received Vehicle adjustment reports can consult and reconcile payments of assignments and in3% voices issued to the entities in the Group. This prevents the Bodily injury adjustment reports 1% With regards to training, it is worth highlighting customer associate from having to communicate their information reVarious inspections experience programmes given to general experts and S.T.R. quirements to different company departments. 2% about the values to convey and behaviour to maintain in the interpersonal relationships with customers. Promoting corporate responsibility As a new development during 2018, research work began on Prepersa promotes good practices related to efficiency and the new technologies in the field of household repairs in order to minimisation of resources among its suppliers, including repair achieve efficiencies in costs and materials. versus replace policies and the application of new technologies 668 741 that allow water damages to be located and repaired with greatgeneral experts repairers Supplier satisfaction er efficiency. 253 291 motor claim adjusters AutoPresto workshops Twice a year, Prepersa runs a survey to learn associates’ opinions about the company’s doctors, management, and supervi132 sion of the quality of the work of the associate network. The medical claim adjusters results allow measures to be taken to improve in different aspects related to this area. Commitments to our interest groups | 30 Contents / Introduction / About this Report / GRI table of contents / Materiality table GRI SDG Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate Responsibility in Grupo Catalana Occidente 04 Our environment 3.6 Society It is worth noting the role of credit insurance to the benefit of and earn recognition for local social projects. Some of the inisociety, through its support for business activity to ensure there tiatives from this year include support for entrepreneurs in are commercial operations even in times of instability and, developing countries and the donation of the money that would 103-2, 103-3 consequently, stimulating economic growth. Around 2% of the have been spent on Christmas presents, which was used to value of the world’s export trade takes place because of the plant trees. Grupo Catalana Occidente bases its business model on respecting coverage of credit insurance. More than 60,000 companies are people and positively contributing to the environment and its able to operate, mobilise and market close to 800 billion euros stakeholders. Its commitment to the societies in which it operates in goods and services around the world thanks to this insuring has been linked to economic development, well-being and high function. Fundación Jesús Serra 203-1 quality employment for more than a century. Commitments of the Group's entities In parallel, its social action is also organised through Fundación Fundación Jesús Serra is a private non-profit entity created in Jesús Serra. Its articles of association declare and define both its Grupo Catalana Occidente’s social work is implemented through memory of Jesus Serra Santamans, a renowned businessman lines of action and its commitment to adhere to and comply with Fundación Jesús Serra. However, its entities also invest each and patron, founder of Grupo Catalana Occidente. It aims to all policies established at the Group level. year in initiatives related to local communities, with their own support and promote initiatives in research, business and historical past and identity. Atradius also helps contribute to teaching, social action, sports and promoting arts. In 2018, the Group contributed 3,724 million euros to society, society through its employees, such as collecting donations for with customers being the main stakeholder, accounting for 60.5% various causes or charity races. The Foundation undertakes projects in order to make a better of the total. society for all, always guided by values such as solidarity, effort In the traditional business, one highlight is Seguros Catalana and team work. Occidente’s support for the Symphony Orchestra of Sant Cugat Thousands of Euros Economic value generated and and the auditorium in this town where its headquarters are Fundación Jesús Serra approves its action plan on an annual distributed 201-1 2017 2018 located. Plus Ultra Seguros focuses on the promotion of sportbasis, detailing the set of activities it intends to undertake, their Economic value generated 4,225 4,345.2 ing disciplines such as paddle tennis or wheelchair basketball potential beneficiaries and the necessary human and material Economic value distributed 3,641 3,724 by the Illunion team of disabled players. Meanwhile, Seguros resources. In order to ensure objectivity, there is a formal protocol Bilbao focuses on local cultural sponsorships such as the which specifies the selection criteria for proposed programmes Payments made to customers 2,255 2,252 Guggenheim Museum and the Naval Museum. Atradius Crédito and initiatives. The Project Valuation Committee is the Public administrations 388 407 y Caución invests in projects closely linked to its own business, responsible body. Through bi-monthly meetings, they select such as initiatives to support business development. Overall, the set of new projects and assess the state of ongoing projects, Brokers 471 489 the amount allocated to these projects in 2018 amounted to 1.4 among other duties. Employees 479 481 million euros. In addition, Fundación Jesús Serra participates in initiatives Shareholders 88 95 At Atradius, employees run campaigns in order to maximise for the benefit of certain groups and conducts impact assessEconomic value retained 584 621 their social contribution. Among the actions promoted are colments and specific development programmes. In 2018, 70% of lections of donations for various causes and the charity runs the projects and initiatives undertaken worked with particiunder the “Atradius cares” initiative. The initiative came about pation programmes, impact assessments and development with the purpose of allowing the local staff of Atradius to share programs. 413-1 Commitments to our interest groups | 31 Contents / Introduction / About this Report / GRI table of contents / Materiality table GRI SDG Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate Responsibility in Grupo Catalana Occidente 04 Our environment A good example is the Africa Digna-Fundacion Jesús Serra Fundación Jesús Serra investment in social projects 2nd edition of the Fundación Jesús Serra initiative, a scholarship programme for students in Kenya, the objective of which is to provide access to secondary education For more information see the website of Research Awards and a trade for Kenyan students who have a good academic Fundación Jesús Serra. https://www.fundacionjesusserra.org/ Fundación Jesús Serra, within the record but lack economic resources. framework of support for research, held the second edition of its Research Awards in Another highlight from 2018 is the launch of the Luisa Farré 2018 € 2,222,081.54 2018 for nutrition, food and health projects Maternal and Child Health Project in developing countries. It in order to recognise the dedication and is currently being run in Senegal and procedures are already underway for its launch in Cape Verde. progress made by Spanish researchers in 2017 € 2,004,421.28 these fields. The entities to which Fundación Jesús Serra provides support include the Foundation for Cardiovascular Research, the 2016 € 1,751,434.09 For more information see the website for the awards: National Oncology Research Centre (CNIO), the ESADE https://investigacionfjs.com/es/home/ Foundation, the Spanish Federation of Sports for Persons with Physical Disabilities (FEDDF), the Winter Sports Centre for the Disabled (CDIA), Manos Unidas, Doctors without Borders, the Prevent Foundation and Food Banks. • Jesús Serra research • Talent scholarships to award given to scientists business schools such who conduct their as ESADE and Deusto The annual increase in the Foundation's budget is an example Busines s an of the commitment and the positive effective impact that Grupo research in Spain ar ch dt ea • Entrepreneurship • Visiting Research se classes and university Catalana Occidente has on society. Scholars programmes Re ing scholarships for people ch in collaboration with with disabilities various research centres at a national level Socia l ac s or t • Lluisa Farré Sp tio n physiotherapy and training project for • Fundación Jesús African women Pro Serra Ski Trophy m otio n of t h e a r ts • Sporting activities for • Xpress Tennis Cup the disabled family designed to promote members of employees kids’ tennis and intermediaries • Fundación Jesús Serra Poetry Competition, 11th edition • The “Your city is filled with pianos” action and the “It’s my turn to play” project to teach piano to vulnerable children Commitments to our interest groups | 32 Contents / Introduction / About this Report / GRI table of contents / Materiality table GRI SDG Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate Responsibility in Grupo Catalana Occidente 04 Our environment Materials In an effort to achieve effective document management and reduce paper consumption, the implementation of electronic documentation has been promoted in business processes, including those involving the customer. In 2018, paper consumption increased slightly compared to the previous year. Over 19% of the paper consumed is recycled. Our environment In the last two years, around 20% of paper consumption came from recycling processes. Environment The environmental impact of the day-to-day activity of Grupo Consumption of materials* 2017 2018 Catalana Occidente is limited. Even so, the entities in the Group are committed to reducing waste generation, promoting the Paper consumption (kg) 1,504,458 1,616,209 use of biodegradable materials and recycled paper, the optimi% recycled paper 24.5% 19.4% sation of energy consumption, rational water consumption and, as far as possible, the reuse of equipment through making * Includes information from Seguros Catalana Occidente, PlusUltra Seguros, NorteHispana Seguros, donations. Seguros Bilbao and Atradius Credito y Caución, excluding Graydon, Gestifatura, Informes and Iberinform Portugal. * Paper consumption of Atradius Crédito y Caución has been estimated from the number of sheets, assuming 70 g per sheet. The Group carries out its activities in compliance with current legislation on the environment as well as voluntary commitments to promote good environmental practices, as well as energyand eco-efficiency. In 2018, the Group did not receive any environmental claims, nor did it receive any in 2017. The environmental impact of the supply chain in the business is low. However, the Group’s entities take environmental considerations into account in their relations with suppliers. For example, Atradius has incorporated into its dialogue with its suppliers aspects such as the minimisation of waste or the search for eco-efficient solutions. The entity also has an environmental policy that establishes its management approached for the main challenges of the business. Our environment | 33 Contents / Introduction / About this Report / GRI table of contents / Materiality table GRI SDG Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate Responsibility in Grupo Catalana Occidente 04 Our environment Energy The commitment to the environment is also linked to the daily Waste lives of the employees in the Group’s entities. For this reason, electric chargers for vehicles have been installed at some of its The Group has general practices for recycling office materials Grupo Catalana Occidente promotes good energy practices most symbolic buildings. across its different headquarters and branches. In 2018, entities among its entities, encouraging the consumption of renewable energies. For example, 28% of electricity consumption in the in the credit insurance business recycled 21.38% of paper used. credit business came from renewable sources in 2018. Emissions Computers and other electronic items that can still be used are Grupo Catalana Occidente calculates direct (Scope 1, associated sent to different organisations that can use them for their own In 2018 progress was also made in performing energy audits with the combustion of natural gas) and indirect (Scope 2, asactivity or donate them to people with fewer resources. In 2018, at all electrical supply points. In addition, the maintenance and sociated with the generation of the electricity purchased) green281 computers were donated in Spain, which is 13% more than refitting of Group buildings is governed by principles of energy house gas emissions in accordance with the international in the previous year. Remaining items that cannot be reused efficiency, with the aim of reducing their consumption and CO2 guidelines of the World Resources Institute (GHG Protocol, 2004). are delivered and recycled at points established by the relevant emissions. In 2018, new works and reforms included motion It also promotes good energy practices among its entities to authority in the Autonomous Community where the entities in detectors, automatic light intensity regulation and the replaceencourage their reduction. the Group are located. ment of air conditioning facilities with other more energy-efficient units. These actions have helped to reduce energy consumption by more than 50% in the headquarters of the Group In 2018, energy saving measures implemented as a whole manin the traditional business. aged to reduce the direct emissions associated with natural gas consumption by 12%, and the indirect emissions associated with 13.17% of energy consumed energy in the last year came from electricity by 10% compared to 2017. renewable sources. Emissions (kgCO2e) 9,090,113.566 Energy consumption Natural gas 7,988,961.29 25,471,750.00 Electricity (kWh) 24,387,616.88 7,768,883.75 Electricity 7,438,223.148 Natural gas 4,808,173.5 (kWh) 4,225,724.1 2018 2017 2017 2016 * Emissions calculated from the reported energy consumption (See note 1). Source of emission factors used for the electricity purchased: World Resource Institute (2017). GHG Protocol tool for purchased electricity V.4.9, Spain; for natural gas consumption: World Resource Institute (2015). GHG Protocol tool for stationary combustion. V.4.1. Our environment | 34 Contents / Introduction / About this Report / GRI table of contents / Materiality table GRI SDG Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate Responsibility in Grupo Catalana Occidente 04 Our environment GRI table of contents 102-55 GRI standard Content Page number or URL Omissions General Disclosures GRI 102: Organisational profile General Disclosures 2016 102-1 Name of the organisation Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services 7 102-3 Location of headquarters Paseo de la Castellana nº4 28046 (Madrid) 102-4 Location of operations See Annual Report (p.7, 10, 23) 102-5 Ownership and legal form Limited Company 102-6 Markets served See Annual Report (p.7, 23) 102-7 Scale of the organisation 6, 7, 8 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 19, 20, 27, 29 102-9 Supply chain 27, 29 In October 2017, Grupo Catalana Occidente moved its headquarters from 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain Sant Cugat to Madrid 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 14 102-12 External initiatives 15 102-13 Membership of associations 15 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-makers 3 Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour 11, 14, 21 Governance 102-18 Governance structure 9 Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 18 GRI table of contents | 35 Contents / Introduction / About this Report / GRI table of contents / Materiality table GRI SDG Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate Responsibility in Grupo Catalana Occidente 04 Our environment GRI standard Content Page number or URL Omissions General Disclosures GRI 102: Organisational profile General Disclosures 2016 Employees of the various Group entities are covered by the collective 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements agreements that apply to them. In Spain, 100% coverage of these types of agreements is guaranteed to employees. 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 19 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 15, 19 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 16 Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements See page 39 of the Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. Annual Report 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 15, 16 102-47 List of material topics 16 102-48 Restatements of information There has been no restatement of the information 102-49 Changes in reporting 15 102-50 Reporting period 2018 102-51 Date of most recent report 2018 102-52 Reporting Cycle Annual 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Grupo Catalana Occidente This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards essentials 102-55 Index of GRI disclosures 35, 40 102-56 External assurance This report has not been submitted for external assurance. GRI table of contents | 36 Contents / Introduction / About this Report / GRI table of contents / Materiality table GRI SDG Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate Responsibility in Grupo Catalana Occidente 04 Our environment GRI standard Content Page number or URL Omissions Material issues Economic performance, profitability and solvency (GRI 201 Economic performance 2016) GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 16 Management Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 8 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 8 GRI 103: 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 23, 31 Management Approach 2016 Risk management and regulatory compliance (GRI 307 Environmental compliance 2016, GRI 419 Socio-economic compliance 2016) GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 16 Management Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 12, 13 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 12, 13 GRI 307: During 2018, Grupo Catalana Occidente was not subject to any significant 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Environmental compliance 2016 penalties or fines related to compliance with environmental regulations. During 2018, Grupo Catalana Occidente was not subject to any significant GRI 419: 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area penalties or fines related to compliance with laws and regulations in the Socio-economic compliance 2016 social and economic area. Corporate Governance (GRI 102 General Disclosures 2016) GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 16 Management Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 9 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 9 Ethics, integrity and transparency (GRI 102 General Disclosures 2016, GRI 205 Anti-corruption 2016, GRI 206 Unfair competition 2016) GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 16 Management Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 11, 13 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 11, 13 GRI table of contents | 37 Contents / Introduction / About this Report / GRI table of contents / Materiality table GRI SDG Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate Responsibility in Grupo Catalana Occidente 04 Our environment GRI standard Content Page number or URL Omissions Material issues Ethics, integrity and transparency (GRI 102 General Disclosures 2016, GRI 205 Anti-corruption 2016, GRI 206 Unfair competition 2016) At Atradius Crédito y Caución anti-corruption training is compulsory for all employees. GRI 205: 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures In the case of Spanish entities, the required courses for new joiners Anti-corruption 2016 include courses related to the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. GRI 206: During 2018, there were no legal proceedings of this nature that 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust and monopoly practices Anti-competitive behaviour 2016 significantly affected the business of the entity. Customer experience 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 16 GRI 103: 103-2 The management approach and its components 24 Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 24, 25 Data Protection. Cyber Security (GRI 418 Customer Privacy 2016) 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 16 GRI 103: 103-2 The management approach and its components 26 Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 26 GRI 418: In 2018, Grupo Catalana Occidente has not identified any leaks, 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Customer Privacy 2016 thefts or losses of customer data. Innovation 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 16 GRI 103: 103-2 The management approach and its components 8 Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 8 GRI table of contents | 38 Contents / Introduction / About this Report / GRI table of contents / Materiality table GRI SDG Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate Responsibility in Grupo Catalana Occidente 04 Our environment GRI standard Content Page number or URL Omissions Material issues Quality employment (GRI 401: Employment 2016, GRI 402: Labour/Management relations 2016, GRI 405: Diversity and equal opportunities 2016, GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016, GRI 407: Freedom of association and collective bargaining 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 16 GRI 103: 103-2 The management approach and its components 18, 19, 21 22, 23 Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 18, 19, 21 22, 23 GRI 401: 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 20 Employment 2016 In Spain, the minimum notice periods are established in the applicable legislation: Company Collective Agreement, State GRI 402: Collective Agreement, Statute of Workers’ Rights. Labour/Management 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes It is a business practice to convene the trade unions to inform Relations 2016 them in detail of any important operational changes that may affect the staff, with at least one month's notice of such changes, fulfilling all legal provisions. Grupo Catalana Occidente will work 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 10, 20 to maximise the scope of its staff GRI 405: distributions for the 2019 report Diversity and equal opportunities 2016 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 10, 20 GRI 406: During 2018, GCO received four cases of discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Non-discrimination 2016 through its relevant channels, resolving all of them. Grupo Catalana Occidente ensures compliance with regard to GRI 407: Freedom of association and Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining may working relations with workers’ representatives and trade 407-1 collective bargaining 2016 be at risk union delegates, maintaining and constant and smooth relationship with Trade Unions. GRI table of contents | 39 Contents / Introduction / About this Report / GRI table of contents / Materiality table GRI SDG Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate Responsibility in Grupo Catalana Occidente 04 Our environment GRI standard Content Page number or URL Omissions Material issues Professional development (GRI 404: Training and education 2016) 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 16 GRI 103: Management Approach 201 103-2 The management approach and its components 22 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 22 GRI 404: 404-1 Average annual number of hours of training per employee 22 Training and education 2016 Commitment to society (GRI 203: Indirect economic impacts 2016, GRI 413: Local communities 2016) GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 16 Management Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 31 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 31 GRI 203: 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 31 Indirect economic impacts 2016 GRI 413: 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs 32 Local communities 2016 GRI table of contents | 40 Contents / Introduction / About this Report / GRI table of contents / Materiality table GRI SDG Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate Responsibility in Grupo Catalana Occidente 04 Our environment Materiality table GRI SDG Coverage Material issues GRI standards Origin* Involvement** Related SDG Internal External Direct Indirect Economic, profitability and solvency performance GRI 201 Economic performance 2016 SDG 8 Decent Work and Economic Growth GRI 102 General Disclosures 2016 Risk management and regulatory compliance GRI 307 Environmental compliance 2016 SDG 16 Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions GRI 419 Socio-economic compliance 2016 Corporate Governance GRI 102 General Disclosures 2016 SDG 16 Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions SDG 8 Decent Work and Economic Growth GRI 102 GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 Ethics, integrity and transparency GRI 205 GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 SDG 12 Responsible Consumption and Production GRI 206 GRI 206: Anti-competitive behaviour 2016 SDG 16 Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions SDG 3 Health and well-being Customer experience N/A SDG 12 Responsible Consumption and Production Data Protection. Cyber Security GRI 418 Customer Privacy 2016 N/A Innovation N/A SDG 9 Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure GRI 401 Employment 2016 SDG 5 Gender Equality GRI 402 Labour/Management relations 2016 Quality employment GRI 405 Diversity and equal opportunities 2016 SDG 8 Decent Work and Economic Growth GRI 406 Non-discrimination 2016 GRI 407 Freedom of association and collective bargaining 2016 SDG 10 Reduced Inequality Professional development GRI 404 Training and education 2016 SDG 4 Quality Education GRI 203 Indirect economic impacts 2016 SDG 3 Health and well-being Commitment to society GRI 413 Local communities 2016 SDG 11 Sustainable Cities and Communities 17 goals to transform our world Sustainable development goals | 41 www.grupocatalanaoccidente.com
