Communication on Progress Implementing UN Global Compact Principles in International Personal Finance International Personal Finance has been a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) since December 2008. Over the last year we have continued to align our business with the ten Global Compact principles. To inform our stakeholders about how we are advancing those principles within our sphere of influence, we have developed our 2018 Communication on Progress. Our Communication on Progress (COP) submission can also be downloaded from the sustainability section on our public corporate website. I welcome this opportunity to express IPF’s continued support for the work that the Global Compact does to challenge businesses around the world to operate in ways that meet fundamental responsibilities in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. I am pleased to confirm that we will continue aligning our business with these principles. Gerard Ryan Chief Executive Officer – International Personal Finance PLC International Personal Finance PLC (“IPF”) is a London Stock Exchange listed company headquartered in Leeds, West Yorkshire. It is the ultimate holding company of a number of overseas subsidiaries (“the IPF Group”) which provide straightforward consumer finance across 11 markets. The IPF Group operates in two divisions: Home Credit (in Poland, Czech Republic, Hungary, Romania, Mexico) and Digital (in Finland, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Australia, Poland, Spain and Mexico). IPF is dedicated to make a difference in the lives of our customers by providing simple, personalised financial solutions. The following table is structured according to the COP minimum requirements and is compiled from our 2018 Annual Report and the ipfin.co.uk website. This report covers the period January 2018 – December 2018. Principles What we do HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Support and respect IPF works to promote a culture that supports internationally recognised the protection of human rights and seeks to avoid complicity in human rights abuses. Our international human Code of Ethics and Group policies reflect our commitment to act ethically in rights within their all our business dealings and to follow leading international standards in sphere of influence. relation to employment, human rights, and core labour standards. We actively Principle 2 Make sure their own encourage our employees and agents to raise concerns on unethical business corporations are not complicit in human practices and offer an independently operated whistleblowing hotline for rights abuses. those who, for whatever reason, choose not to use internal reporting methods. We have a zero-tolerance approach to modern forms of slavery and provide training on the risk our business faces from modern slavery in its supply chains to employees who are more exposed to such risks. We have undertaken a risk assessment of all existing suppliers to the IPF Group based on a number of risk-factors including the nature of services and spend. All new suppliers are assessed following the same methodology. LABOUR STANDARDS Principle 3 Freedom of Our Group policies cover core labour standards and recognise employee association and rights including the right for collective bargaining and freedom association. the effective Membership of trade unions is not common within the consumer credit recognition of the industry; however part of our office personnel are members of unions in right to collective Poland and Mexico, where we engage in dialogue with the unions to discuss bargaining. the company progress in addressing labour standards. In Poland, our Social Principle 4 The elimination of Dialogue Manager ensures that company policies affecting labour standards all forms of forced are consulted and agreed with the unions; additionally, trade unions are and compulsory invited to cooperate with the local Health and Safety Committee. In Mexico, labour. we annually review the wage conditions in the collective bargaining Principle 5 The effective agreement as stipulated by law; additionally, we review the general working abolition of child conditions every two years. labour. As a financial services provider, the businesses within the IPF Group have Principle 6 The elimination of relatively straightforward supply chains compared with those of other sectors. discrimination in Forced, compulsory, or child labour is not a direct issue for the business as we respect of are office-based, and employ mainly skilled staff. Agents need to be over 18 employment and years old (21 in Mexico). Nonetheless, we have communicated our occupation. commitment to oppose slavery and human trafficking in our direct operations and in the indirect operations of our supply chains and have provided employees in human resources, agent support and procurement with training on our standards and processes, how to spot forced labour and how to react. We consider our workforce, including self-employed agents in those markets where agents are not directly employed, to be valued members and stakeholders of our business and treat them with care and respect. We are committed to promoting equality of opportunity for all our workforce and work to create an environment, free from discrimination and harassment in which cultural diversity and individual differences are positively valued and where decisions are based on merit. Our Code of Ethics and annual business ethics training covers employees’ duty to treat colleagues with dignity and respect at all times as well as the procedures to raise a concern about discrimination. To support our workforce we operate a Group-wide safety management system compliant with OHSAS 18001 to ensure all employees and selfemployed agents are provided with the highest standards of safety supervision, training, education and advice. We are now in the process of migrating all Home Credit markets to the ISO 45001, a new improved Occupational Health and Safety Management Standard that replaced the OHSAS 18001. Additionally, we operate help lines and whistleblowing services, available to all employees and self-employed agents, to ensure that they have access to appropriate advice and support for their safety and wellbeing and can raise concerns directly to senior management. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Principle 7 Support a We recognise that the consequences of climate change are significant and precautionary are being felt globally. All aspects of the Group’s business and related approach to administrative activities are conducted in such a way as to minimise, as far as environmental possible, any environmentally harmful activities or processes and to drive challenges. Principle 8 Undertake resource efficiency. initiatives to We aim to reduce our environmental impact where possible and our fleet promote greater strategy and MyProvi programme our handheld mobile technology environmental application for agents –are instrumental in helping us to achieve this. Our responsibility. fleet vehicles, which play an integral role in serving our home credit Principle 9 Encourage the customers, are under regular review to achieve incremental reductions in fuel development and consumption and CO2emissions. In 2018, we continued offering driver diffusion of training and introducing in-car technologies where possible to promote the environmentally adoption of fuel efficient driving techniques among our drivers. Furthermore, friendly with the roll-out of e-receipting in Czech Republic and Poland we have technologies. reduced paper consumption in both countries. During 2019, we expect to see greater paper savings and less printing with the implementation of digital receipting in Hungary and Romania. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 Work against Our Anti-Bribery and Corruption policy sets our commitment to conducting corruption in all its our affairs so as to combat bribery and corruption. The Group’s trading forms, including activities must be conducted with honesty and integrity and in accordance extortion and with the law, ensuring that the Group is compliant with the anti-bribery bribery. and/or anti-corruption legislation of any jurisdiction applicable from time to time to any Group company. The Group operates controls and procedures to minimise the risk that no one acting on its behalf: • offers, promises or gives a bribe; • requests, agrees to accept or receives a bribe; nor • bribes a public official to obtain or retain business or an advantage. All companies, employees and agents are required to comply with the relevant anti-bribery and corruption legislation in their markets. In addition, because of the extra-territorial application of the UK Bribery Act 2010 to overseas subsidiaries, all employees and agents are also required to comply with the provisions of this Act. We have a group wide methodology for undertaking annual bribery risk assessments in each of our markets which includes a review of the strength of our controls around the six principles of the UK Bribery Act 2010. These assessments are performed locally and identify any control weaknesses that are then addressed as part of our work against corruption. These assessments are independently reviewed by our Group anti-bribery specialist, and any common issues are addressed at a group-wide level. Bribery is considered as part of each markets fraud and corruption risk management process and key safeguards are detailed in the local risk registers. These registers are scrutinised and independently challenged at both a local and group level. Anti-bribery training has been provided by Group to each of our market fraud specialist and this is being rolled out to the wider teams in 2019. We have internal reporting procedures in place for those employees who have concerns regarding any aspect of bribery or corruption by themselves or by others, as well as the external whistle-blowing hotline.
