May 1, 2019 To Our Stakeholders Dear Mr. Secretary General: I am pleased to confirm that Wheel Pros LLC., reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. As an active member, we recognize that a key requirement for participation in the UN Global Compact is the annual submission of a yearly Communication of Progress (COP) that describes our company’s efforts to implement the Ten Principles. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore, in this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Mr. Randall E. White CEO/Managing Director p/ 303.433.3599 f/ 720.208.9195 5347 S. Valentia Way, Suite 200 Greenwood Village, CO 80111 www.wheelpros.com Strategy: Wheel Pros LLC., is committed to creating value for all its stakeholders since joining the Global Compact in 2018. We have placed sustainable development in our business strategy. Below are examples in the principles our company has taken in the year we have been Active member. I. Human Rights: Wheel Pros, LLC., is committed to strategies or policies in the area of human rights. Human Rights management is coordinated by Human Resources and Legal/Compliance departments. This includes: a. We expect our business partners, and any party linked to our operations, to respect Human rights as described in the UN Global Compact Principles. b. Wheel Pros ensures that workers are provided safe, suitable, and sanitary work facilities. c. Wheel Pros’ Human Resource department has written policies in place to protect workers from workplace harassment, including physical, verbal, or sexual, abuse or threats. We have an established reporting system for employees to follow that is communicated to all employees. Any non-compliance with the policies and procedures may be subject to disciplinary actions including termination of employment d. Targeted training for management and employees. e. Wheel Pros uses effective management systems to integrate the human rights principles by: i. Regular reviews to ensure that we and our manufactures adhere to all applicable laws and regulations, as well as our internal standards. This includes adopting human rights standards in all manufacturing agreements. f. We require our Vendors to join the Global Compact and adhere to these principles. g. Our management has audited all our manufacturers to ensure all the agreements contain these principles and that all manufacturers are complying with the principles. II. Labor: Employment practices for both employees and contractors are of high importance to Wheel Pros. We are committed to providing equal opportunities for all its employees and consistently works on strengthening a culture of mutual respect, trust, and openness. a. Increased employee training and zero tolerance for sexual harassment and any form of discrimination. b. An internal reporting system designed to ensure anyone can report what they see and hear at anytime. p/ 303.433.3599 f/ 720.208.9195 5347 S. Valentia Way, Suite 200 Greenwood Village, CO 80111 www.wheelpros.com c. In our manufacturing agreements, we have a section requiring our manufacturers to not use, and specifically prohibits, forced, trafficked, and child labor as well as other Global Compact principles in this area. d. Improving the efficiency and productivity or our workforce through continuous monitoring and improvements of processes, systems, and work organization. e. Wheel Pros regularly has team management meetings and requires reports from Human Resources to get specific updates on each department regarding the adherence to this principle such as percentages of different aspects of our workforce. III. Environment: Wheel Pros, LLC., has taken the following actions: a. Avoid environmental damage via regular maintenance and updates of production processes and equipment. b. Education on quality and environment. c. We are now implementing electric forklifts. d. Regular requirements that our manufacturers have an active ISO14001 in place. e. We are engaged in paper use reduction such as converting to digital files instead of paper files where applicable. f. Wheel Pros requires reports from departments with quantitative measurements of differences in each environmental practice that has been implemented to make sure the practices are producing a measurable difference. IV. Anti-Corruption: Wheel Pros, LLC., is committed to the fight against anti-corruption. We abide by laws and set an example on how to conduct business in an ethical way. Specific policies and procedures against fraud to ensure transparency and compliance. a. We have added this principle into our training manual. b. We have added specific training in this area to our international sales associates in order to recognize in foreign companies including manufacturers and distributors. c. We require all our manufacturers to apply to this principle of the Global Compact. d. Treat the principle as an integral part of business and strategy and day to day operation. e. Work with our foreign management to have regular check-ins with the manufacturers and report back with anything that does not comply with this principle. p/ 303.433.3599 f/ 720.208.9195 5347 S. Valentia Way, Suite 200 Greenwood Village, CO 80111 www.wheelpros.com Sincerely, Randy White Randy White CEO Wheel Pros p/ 303.433.3599 f/ 720.208.9195 5347 S. Valentia Way, Suite 200 Greenwood Village, CO 80111 www.wheelpros.com
