Integrated Report 2019 Year Ended March 31, 2019 To improve lives and contribute to a better society Vision The OMRON Principles OMRON founder Kazuma Tateishi resonated with the public nature of business, saying, “A company shouldn’t be just about pursuing profits...it has an obligation to serve society.” In 1959, he publicly announced the OMRON’s Corporate Motto, to improve lives and contribute to a better society. In 1990, we transformed this motto into the OMRON Principles, evolving with the times. OMRON Principles Sustainability Policy We believe a business should create value for society through its key practices. We are committed to sustainably increasing our long-term value by putting Our Mission and Values into practice. W  e uphold a long-term vision in our business practices to create solutions to society’s needs. We operate as a truly global company through our fair and transparent management practices. We cultivate strong relationships with all of our stakeholders through responsible engagement. We consider Sustainability Policy to reflect the same meaning and content as declared by our Management Philosophy based on the OMRON Principles. Namely, “We are committed to sustainably enhancing our long-term corporate value by putting the OMRON Principles into practice.” 1 Vision Strategy Business Governance Financial Info Corporate Info SINIC* Theory: Predicting the Future Through the Interrelationships of Science, Technology, and Society Our founder, Kazuma Tateishi, believed that solving social issues through business to create a better society required the ability to anticipate future social needs. He believed that a company needed a compass to help predict the future. As our compass, Mr. Tateishi formulated the SINIC predictive theory, which projects the future based on the cycle of interrelationships between Science, Technology, and Society. OMRON first announced this predictive theory to the world at the International Future Research World Congress in 1970. Since then, the SINIC Theory has been our compass for projecting into the future. The basic philosophy behind the SINIC Theory is that the interrelationships among science, technology, and society lead to social change. Let us use the Cybernation Society as an example. We can see how the rise of cybernetics, computer science, and other synthetic sciences in the 1940s became the seeds of electronic control technologies, programming, and other technology. These technologies gave rise to the PC and the internet, leading to the advent of the Cybernation Society. At the same time, the Cybernation Society demanded more data, along with more accurate and rapid data analysis. These demands forced us to produce CPUs and GPUs with faster processing power, make advancements in deep learning and other artificial intelligence technologies, and reach higher levels of sophistication in neuroscience and cognitive science. The evolution of these interrelationships serves as a driving force behind humanity’s desire to progress. * SINIC: Seed-Innovation to Need-Impetus Cyclic Evolution Seed Technology Innovation Impetus Need Progress -oriented motivation Science Society ltural Society Agricu y Ha iet nd oc icr eS af Past le ctiv nal Handi ditio s gricultural Societcyraft t So c Future Col Tra chnicA Techni cs ty y Te Ha ie iet nd oc In icra eS Ancient ft tiv So nal A PrCi c HRaendi Te m le ol y itio Science na cra c ty ch itive ar rad ics TeScchnisisca ft ocie Soc ir m TncTeechn al S Aut A on ien sn stri i z a ti ni iety onom e iety cs ci ce Soc Indu n P on M e ch a S oci o us ce rial Au S n i In o lizati nizat o ci et y yc tonomous ust Primiti t Ancient tria Mecha y Ind S ety Natur on Pri Re ve zation us Science hSooc Te mit y na ar e ty t al S riali S ocie c C gy T Sc issa Ind Socie ch ive Soc t yc rim enc ec -Biety oci Prim nii on Natur ien n ust ati lo tci iety Religi vs e i ety ce ty Te ho al S c hn io P c C gy om no on Ind ocie S S ati olo Aut Tech ch -Bi ol logi oci Primiti og e ty ve Primit tom hn no olo c Mode Arun Tec y i Religi ve log gic Meta-Psycho Modern Technology on ty y logi ie edhnology c Meta-Psycho Technology c liTze logic ria logy ut d lize o ti on st S o m at iz a Technology ria logy du hno ce i m ty c ie i o n O p t S o ci e Me ien ty st C y b er n atio n o c e l Sc tadu n Te dern enCcontro ro S o ciety Ps Me Psy l ch Mo nce trol Sci Ele uto tachon Te dern lti on e on ctSro ma etics Sci C Seed o Psy r a Mo nce nt i z Tecocnieic Cto io c Co im ty Cy hnoty nntrol Cy Biologi Oopltogoycie chon e Sci ce Innovation bernationechn S s etics be logy T ic rn ro S o c ie t y et Need eti cs l Pshon yc Ele s Seed ctro ol P Impetus ntr Tec nic Cont c Co Cy hno Bioronletics Biologi ology s Innovation be logy Techn ic Cyclic Evolution rn et Need eti h on cs yc Ps Impetus Bionetics Cyclic Evolution 2 Vision What We Mean by Better Society OMRON has identified factory automation, healthcare, mobility, and energy management as four business domains in which new social issues are most likely to emerge. We will pursue innovation driven by social needs in these domains, striving to contribute to a better society. Factory Automation Unique OMRON Value What We Mean by Better Society Innovations to manufacturing by automation Bring innovation to manufacturing by automation, to enrich lives of people all over the world. Healthcare Unique OMRON Value What We Mean by Better Society Optimal health for all through personal daily vital sign All for Healthcare and lifestyle information To help realize healthy and comfortable lives for people around the world 3 Vision Strategy Business Governance Financial Info Corporate Info Corporate Video Watch a video presentation about how OMRON technologies will change society. https://youtu.be/20HPAokyDoY Mobility Unique OMRON Value What We Mean by Better Society Stress-Free Urban Traffic (No Accidents, No Congestion) Contributing to a Seamless Relationship Between Balance Between Car Society and Global Environment People and Automobiles in the Future Car Society Creating a Society in Which the People of the World Live in Safety, Security, and Comfort Energy Management Unique OMRON Value What We Mean by Better Society Spread and stable supply of renewable energy Using energy conversion and control technologies to Distributed electricity infrastructure popularize the use of renewable energy and contribute to a sustainable society 4 Vision A History of Creating Value Since our founding, OMRON has pursued innovation driven by social needs, leading the world in innovative ideas. We will continue to improve lives and contribute to a better society by creating value for the future. Social Issues/Needs Automation Society (1945-74) Cybernation Society (c) Tokyu Corporation /amanaimages Productivity improvements to Congestion in urban public Rising concern for personal health support high economic growth transportation resulting from changes in lifestyle OMRON Solutions Wider use of in-home Factory floor automation Social systems automation blood pressure monitors FY1960 FY1966 FY1967 FY1973 World’s first non-contact switch General purpose relays World’s first automated Digital blood pressure monitors (MY Series) train station system History and Sales Trend 1933 Founded as Tateisi Electric 1970 Announced the SINIC Theory 1988 Manufacturing Company 1974 Established Tateishi Institute of Life Science Established Management 1959 Established Corporate Motto Center in the Netherlands 1960 Established Central R&D Laboratory and Singapore 1989 Established Management Center in U.S. FY 1960 1960 1970 1970 1980 1980 1990 1990 5 Vision Strategy Business Governance Financial Info Corporate Info (1974-2005) Optimization Society (2005-) Population decline and Advanced information society Global warming soaring labor costs Technology speeding the wider Wider adoption of renewable Advanced labor savings use of digital devices energy and energy saving solutions for factories FY2018 Collaborative Robot FY2015 NX Series machine automation controller FY1995 FY2011 FY2012 OKAO® vision image sensing PV inverters DC/DC converter for FY2018 technology idling stop system FY2016 Automated X-Ray AI-equipped mobile robots Inspection System 1990 2003 2012 Established Management Center in India and Brazil Change in corporate name, to OMRON Established Keihanna Technology 2015 Third revision to the OMRON Principles publication of the OMRON Principles Innovation Center 2017 Established Management Center in Korea Net sales 1994 2006 2018 Established OMRON SINIC X Corporation Established Management Center in China Second revision to the 1998 OMRON Principles Target First revision to the OMRON Principles ¥1 trillion VG2.0 VG2.0 ¥500 billion Long-Term G'90s G'90s GD2010 GD2010 VG2020 VG2020 Vision 2000 2000 2010 2010 2020 2020 6 Vision Value Creation Model OMRON value creation is anchored to future social needs as we work toward our vision of a better society. Innovation driven by social needs means creating new value through inspired solutions to social issues. At OMRON, we base value creation on the OMRON Principles and the SINIC Theory (future predictive model). We commercialize innovations as products and services for our customers, contributing to a better society as these solutions are put into use. Our value creation model results in business growth and sustainable corporate value improvement. As we grow, we generate larger amounts of management capital for use in creating innovation driven by new social needs. Business Creation Process at OMRON Management Capital (Input) Human Capital Inn Employees 35,090 ova tio (As of March 2019) n Dr Social and Relationship Capital Demographic iv e 1 Trends Identify Social n No. of Countries 117 Limited Issues by (As of March 2019) Resources Nears Financial Capital Technological eed lN Innovation Future Design cia Ratings AA-(R&I)/A(S&P) So 5 2 (As of March 2019) Sensing & Control Intellectual Capital + Think Patents 9,782 Launch (As of March 2019) and Core Open R&D Expenses Monetize Technology Innovation Businesses Evolution ¥270 billion and (FY2017 to FY2020 plan) Business Manufactured Capital Model Capital Investment ¥160 billion 4 Develop 3 Design (FY2017 to FY2020 plan) Products and Co m Services Intellectual Capital, m Manufactured Capital, er cia Social and Relationship liz ati Capital on Growth Investment* ¥100 – ¥200 billion (FY2017 to FY2020 plan) *M&A + Alliances OMRON Principles 7 Vision Strategy Business Governance Financial Info Corporate Info Business Creation Process at OMRON Innovation Driven by Social Needs Identify Social Issues Identify signs of change in the world and search for social issues (including customer issues) in key areas of focus. Implement Near-Future Design Develop near-future design for the next three to ten years, anchored to our future vision of social issues, technological innovation, and developments in science. Evolue Core Technology and develop Model Design Evolve core technologies and design business models necessary for achieving our vision of the near future. Commercialization Develop Products and Services Develop products and services for customers and society. Launch and Monetize Businesses Incubate and grow businesses to solve social issues, while identifying new and emerging social issues. Goals for Domains Products and Services (Output) Social Value FY2020 Contribute to economic Factory Customers: growth through social Automation Manufacturers productivity Digital improvement Industrial Automation Auto Business Factory Automation Equipment Food and more P43 Contribute to healthy Healthcare Customers: and vibrant lifestyles for Users including people around the Healthcare Business world healthcare professionals and 4 Domains P55 Healthcare & consumers Medical Equipment Contribute to safe, VG2.0 Mobility secure, pleasant, and Automotive Electronic Customers: Targets clean lifestyles for Components Business Auto makers people around the world P19 Social Systems, Solutions Station and Traffic Railway / Roads Automotive and Service Electronic Equipment Maintenance / P51,53 Business Components Services Contribute to Energy sustainable society by Management Customers: promoting the use of Housing Makers, renewable energy Other Businesses and more P59 PV Inverters, Other Sustainability Goals OMRON Device Modules Support Customers: P21 Home Appliance Growth Makers and more Electronic and Mechanical Relays, Other P49 Components Business Open Innovation Human Capital Manufacturing, Risk Management Environment Management Corporate Governance 8 Contents Vision Strategy 1 The OMRON Principles VG2.0 Medium-Term 19 Management Plan What We Mean 3 by Better Society Sustainability Initiatives: 21 Progress 5 A History of Creating Value 7 Value Creation Model Financial and Non-Financial 25 Highlights 9 Contents 11 CEO Interview 25 E arnings Structure and Global Business 27 M arket Share and Sales by Product 29 Financial Highlights 30 Non-Financial Highlights 31 1 1-Year Financial and Non-Financial Highlights 33 CFO Interview Integrated Report 2019 Year Ended March 31, 2019 37 ROIC Management About the Cover OMRON practices the OMRON Principles, solving social issues through our To improve lives and businesses. contribute to a better society Our employees are the main drivers of this mission. Every day, every OMRON employee takes one step forward in contributing to a better society. 090_0394387911909.indd 1 2019/09/25 18:32:27 Editorial Policy The boundary of this report covers the 170 companies of the OMRON Group, consisting of 150 consolidated subsidiaries and 20 nonconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates accounted for under the equity method (as of March 31, 2019). OMRON Corporation contributes to the creation of a sustainable society by offering solutions to social issues through our business and by engaging in sustainability initiatives. We voluntarily disclose information to our stakeholders. This integrated report conforms to the integrated reporting frameworks recommended by the International Integrated Reporting Council and the World Intellectual Capital Initiative and refers to Guidance for Collaborative Value Creation issued by Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. Sustainability-related disclosures have been written with reference to the GRI Standards. See our Sustainability website for a comparative table. https://www. omron.com/about/sustainability/guide_line/ 9 Business Governance 39 CTO Interview 73 Message from the Chairman Industrial Automation Business 75 Corporate Governance 43 (IAB) 79 O  utside Officers Round Table Discussion Electronic and Mechanical 49 Components Business (EMC) Automotive Electronic Financial Information 51 Components Business (AEC) 93 Financial Section and More Social Systems, Solutions and 53 Service Business (SSB) Corporate Information 55 Healthcare Business (HCB) Corporate Information Other Businesses (Environmental 107 and More 59 Solutions Business) 61 Human Resources Management 67 Environment 69 Risk Management 71 Responding to Natural Disasters Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements Statements in this integrated report with respect to OMRON’s plans and strategies as well as other statements that are not historical facts, are forward-looking statements involving risks and uncertainties. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from such statements include, but are not limited to, general economic conditions in OMRON’s markets, which are primarily Japan, the Americas, Europe, Greater China, and Asia Pacific; demand for and competitive pricing pressure on OMRON’s products and services in the marketplace; OMRON’s ability to continue to win acceptance for its products and services in these highly competitive markets; and movements of currency exchange rates. 10 CEO Interview Accelerating OMRON Principles-Based Management for Self-Driven Growth Aspirations for Unique OMRON-Style Value Creation August 2019 President and CEO Yoshihito Yamada It was in 1959 that OMRON founder Kazuma Tateishi established the OMRON Corporate Motto, saying, “business should create value for society through its key practices.” For the past 60 years, OMRON has taken on the challenge to lead the world in innovation driven by social needs to improve lives and contribute to a better society. In recent years, complex changes and rising uncertainties have made predicting the future a difficult proposition. In such a severe business environment, how can we confront social issues and generate values unique to OMRON? We spoke to president and CEO Yoshihito Yamada about his vision and strategy. (Interviewer: Integrated Report Production Team) 11 Vision Strategy Business Governance Financial Info Corporate Info sales declines due to the deterioration of the global Fiscal 2018 Review and business environment. On the other hand, Social Systems, Solutions and Service Business (SSB), Fiscal 2019 Outlook Healthcare Business (HCB), and Environment Solution businesses under the direct control of – Editor The first half of the OMRON VG2.0 headquarter remained strong. medium-term management plan is now We defined the first half of VG2.0 (fiscal 2017-2018) completed. What do you see when you look as an investment phase for future growth. In fiscal back on Fiscal 2018? 2018, we focused on the IAB and HCB in an Yamada: In fiscal 2018, we were affected by a increasingly challenging business environment. Our rapidly deteriorating business environment, which intent here was to strengthen technology began in the second quarter. As a result, full-year development, marketing capabilities, organizational net sales were level with fiscal 2017, which was a reform, and human resources. As of the end of the record high. Profits were lower year on year. year, we completed the investments necessary for Our mainstay Industrial Automation Business (IAB) mediumto long-term growth in these areas. The recorded historic high sales in Japan, Europe, the EMC has seen a steady implementation of United States, Asia and China. Unfortunately, sales structural reforms, including the consolidation of fell sharply in Korea due to a deterioration in market production bases. conditions for the digital industry, mainly in In terms of shareholder returns, we provided an semiconductors. ¥84 per share dividend, our highest ever. This was Our Electronic and Mechanical Components an increase of ¥8 over the previous fiscal year, Business (EMC) and Automotive Electronic resulting in a total shareholder return of Components Business (AEC) also experienced approximately 130 percent. We also conducted ¥25.7 billion in stock buybacks as another example FY 2018 Results of our management focus on shareholder value and capital efficiency. FY2018 Results Y/Y Net Sales ¥859.5 billion – 0.1% – Please tell us about your outlook for fiscal Gross Profit ¥354.1 billion – 1.0% 2019, which signals the second half of VG2.0. Our fiscal 2019 business plan calls for lower sales Operating Income ¥76.6 billion – 11.2% and profits based on an assumption of a continued Net Income ¥54.3 billion – 14.0% tough operating environment. In light of the risk of Gross Profit Margin 41.2% – 0.4%pt further global macroeconomic deterioration, we have incorporated a negative ¥10 billion in sales and ¥5 billion in operating income into our plan to reflect the risk of earnings fluctuations. FY 2018 Results Sales by Business Segment However, we expect gross profit margin (GP FY2018 Results Y/Y margin), which is an indicator of our earning power, Industrial Automation to exceed 0.8 percentage points over last year. We Business ¥391.8 billion – 1.1 % Electronic and Mechanical plan to find further improvements through the sales Components Business ¥99.7 billion – 4.5 % contributions of high-value-added IAB products and Automotive Electronic Components Business ¥130.5 billion – 0.5 % the results of EMC structural reforms. This high GP Social Systems, Solutions ¥75.0 billion + 6.7 % rate, which has been steadily improving over the and Service Business years, is a great weapon in today’s challenging Healthcare Business ¥115.5 billion + 6.5 % business environment. After all, GP margin is the Other Businesses ¥41.7 billion – 5.9 % source of investments that are essential for growth. 12 Vision CEO Interview Therefore, in fiscal 2019, we will continue to areas that represent global social issues: improve this GP margin and continue to manage cardiovascular disease, respiratory disease, and our business under multiple scenarios that can pain management. respond flexibly to environmental changes. In our mainstay cardiovascular disease field, quickly The challenging business environment is also a aging demographics in developed countries and the terrific opportunity to establish a competitive increase in lifestyle-related diseases associated advantage others in our industry. In the short term, with the expansion of the middle class in emerging headwinds are intensifying due to the effects of countries have resulted in a rise in serious diseases U.S.-China trade friction. But mediumto long-term caused by high blood pressure. These diseases social issues that can be solved through OMRON include stroke and myocardial infarction. The technology and businesses are becoming more and OMRON vision for Zero Events is our stance to more apparent. These include labor shortages eradicate these diseases. To achieve this vision, we caused by the declining birthrate and aging are developing new devices that enable population and lifestyle-related diseases that are measurement of biological information and rapidly increasing in the world. In fiscal 2019, we diagnostic support services that utilize will focus on our mainstay IAB and HCB businesses electrocardiogram monitoring. to solve these issues. We will also accelerate forward-looking The IAB will meet rising needs for machines to investments, which include enhancements and automate the skills of craftspersons in solving the quality improvements in our global IT infrastructure, shortage of skilled workers. We will also meet the so important to group management. We will also needs in higher-precision manufacturing for bolster our IAB production and development bases advanced, more compact, higher-quality electronic in Japan. It is precisely because of the challenging devices. OMRON’s unique manufacturing business environment that we see headwinds as innovation concept, innovative-Automation, is an opportunity to generate buoyancy. By investing designed to meet these needs and solve other steadily in our future, we will acquire the power to problems. We will continue to evolve as OMRON grow dramatically when the market tailwinds blow engineers work with customers to leverage again. production site data, achieving growth through the P43 Industrial Automation Business (IAB) i-BELT subscription service, which facilitates P55 Healthcare Business (HCB) maintenance, upkeep, and the evolution of production lines. The HCB grew steadily, pushed by a wind of increasing global health needs. In particular, we aim Transfer of the Automotive to provide personalized healthcare by offering Electronic Components Business innovative devices and services in three focus and New Focus Domains FY2019 Plan – You have announced the transfer of Automotive Electronic Components Business FY2019 Plan* Y/Y (AEC) shares to Nidec Corporation (formal Net Sales ¥830.0 billion – 3.4% transfer scheduled for October 2019). What were Gross Profit ¥349.0 billion – 1.4% your reasons for this decision? Our decision to transfer the AEC was based on the Operating Income ¥65.0 billion – 15.2% return to the OMRON Principles that we contribute Net Income ¥42.5 billion – 21.8% to a better society through our businesses. We had Gross Profit Margin 42.0% + 0.8%pt three reasons. *Includes the Automotive Electronic Components Business The first reason was for the sake of further AEC 13 Vision Strategy Business Governance Financial Info Corporate Info growth. The automobile industry is entering a resources within more narrowly defined domains once-in-100-year period of great change, called to accelerate competitive and growth strategies. CASE*1. The automotive parts business is now in We intend to use the cash obtained from this share the midst of a major shift to modularization and transfer for future growth investments, including standardization. No industry player can get away M&A activity and alliances, mainly in the IAB and from this fact. The key for survival among in-vehicle HCB businesses. component manufacturers is to continue to provide P33 ROIC Management strong modules. At OMRON, our strength is in *1 CASE: Connected, Autonomous, Shared, Electric control technologies built into electronic control units (ECU). However, it is difficult to construct – Have there been any changes in your strong modules with ECU alone. Combining ECU business fields due to the transfer of the with the motor that is a particular strength of Nidec automotive business? In what fields do you makes for a very competitive module. That’s why expect to increase the value of your presence? we chose Nidec for this transaction. Under VG2.0, we defined four domains of focus: The second reason is to make the OMRON factory automation (FA), healthcare, mobility, and business portfolio stronger and more flexible. The energy management. We pursued growth scope of the AEC business is in excess of ¥130 strategies in each area, but we are now billion, with earnings on par with the industry reorganizing our domains in response to the average. Within the OMRON business portfolio, transfer of the automotive business. however, our IAB and HCB have a competitive Specifically, we will set up three new focus advantage not only in terms of profitability but also domains: FA, Healthcare, and Social Solutions. The in terms of market competitiveness. By third domain, Social Solutions, is a domain that concentrating resources on these businesses, we aims to create new value in social infrastructure, will survive the changing times and create a mainly in social systems, such as roads and structure that provides self-driven growth in any transportation, and energy management-related business environment. businesses. The third reason is to implement a long-term Each of these focus domains include many core growth strategy. We will focus our management products and services that enjoy barriers to entry, New OMRON Focus Domains FA Sensing & Control + Think Social Healthcare Solutions Devices and Modules Business 14 Vision CEO Interview as well as high market share. This is a significant and long term. Companies are a legal entity with competitive strength for OMRON. something regarded as a personality. However, EMC, as an electronic components business, will different than human beings, companies have no continue to be a device and module business defined life expectancy and are not allowed to die. supporting focus domains and aiming for continued Companies have a wide range of stakeholders and growth. an assumption that the entity will be a goingP53 Social Systems, Solutions and Service Business (SSB) concern in perpetuity. At the same time, companies P59 Environmental Solutions Business are also in a very precarious situation. Regardless P49 Electronic and Mechanical Components Business (EMC) of the size of a company, it can be blink out of existence instantly if society does not allow it to exist. Today, we are in the challenging VUCA*2 era that OMRON Principles Management presents a hazy future. At the same time, society to Accomplish Our Responsibilities asks us to contribute to a sustainable world through for the Future as ESG and SDGs. For OMRON to be a company needed by society in these times, and continue to – OMRON pursues the OMRON Principles, raise corporate value, it is essential that we which consist of Our Mission and Our Values. continue to improve lives and contribute to a better Why is OMRON so passionate about society through our practice of management based management based on the OMRON Principles? on the OMRON Principles. We are passionate because we believe practicing *2 VUCA: Volatility, Uncertainty, Complexity, Ambiguity the OMRON Principles will lead to a sustainable improvement in corporate value over the medium OMRON employees are selected from each area to present their projects inspired by the OMRON Principles at the TOGA Global Convention held every May 10th, which is the anniversary of the founding of OMRON. (May 10, 2019) 15 Vision Strategy Business Governance Financial Info Corporate Info – So, how does OMRON practice the OMRON employees embrace the OMRON Principles and Principles for lasting development? approach their work with excitement. We must instill the OMRON Principles in every P61 Human Resources Management P63 TOGA corner of our organization and every employee *3 VOICE: VG OMRON Interactive Communication with Employee must continue to have an internal fire to improve lives and contribute to a better society. As individual – OMRON has led the world in many beliefs expand this circle of resonance inside and innovations. What has made this possible? outside the company, we will see incredible power A mediumto long-term perspective is critical for to solve social issues. quickly identifying and confronting social issues. Therefore, OMRON began a movement to share This is why OMRON engages in management and recognize the efforts of employees who through future-oriented backcasting. Since 1970, practice the OMRON Principles, striving to expand our compass has been the SINIC Theory, a this circle of resonance both inside and outside the predictive theory formulated by our founder. This company. This is The OMRON Global Awards theory projects the future based on the cycle of (TOGA), which we’ve been holding since 2012. The interrelationships between Science, Technology, number of participants has increased year by year, and Society. Today, we are in the process of the up from 20,828 in the first year to 62,469 (6,957 Optimization Society. From the Cybernation projects) cumulatively as of fiscal 2018. With Mechanization Society to the current Optimization approximately 35,000 OMRON Group employees, Society, we will be advancing next to the many participants have entered multiple projects. Autonomous Society, a society in which people to Today, TOGA is an indispensable activity in express themselves while living in harmony with management based on the OMRON Principles. others. One of the most important internal dialogues in See diagram on P17 engaging with management based on the OMRON Principles is our VOICE*3 engagement survey, For OMRON to create this Autonomous Society conducted for all employees globally. In fiscal 2018, and remain a venture-type company on our own, approximately 85 percent of our employees we must continue to create innovation driven by responded with and 8,500 responses received. I social needs. For this reason, we are engaged in a personally look over every response and we use type of technology management that focuses on this feedback to improve management issues. technological innovation, leveraging near-future By accelerating Diversity & Inclusion through design and clearly defining our strategic purpose. human resources strategies such as TOGA and In 2018, we established the Innovation Exploring VOICE, we aim to be a company in which all Initiative HQ (IXI) and OMRON SINIC X Corporation 16 Vision CEO Interview (OSX). IXI was founded on the concept of nearfuture design as a platform to create innovations A Sustainable Growth Structure through backcasting. OSX is engaged in near-future Unique to OMRON design research. By making OSX a separate company with a flexible employment and management system, leading engineers from the – What does OMRON require to become a fields of AI and robotics in Japan and overseas are strong company engaged in self-driven growth? allowed to conduct their work alone, in partnership I define a strong company by three elements: with others, on an ad-hoc project basis, etc. growing capability, earning capacity, and Benefited by a mechanism to remove internal and responsiveness to change. With all three of the external barriers, top-level researchers work to elements, a company can build a self-driven growth create new innovations in an open environment. structure for itself. In this sense, although OMRON One such project is research into robots equipped experienced lower profits last year due to with human finger sensations. By combining this environmental headwinds, we are in the process of technology with industrial robots deployed in FA establishing a self-driven growth structure that sites, humans and robots may be able to co-exist grows independently in any environment. not only on production floors, but also in all aspects As I mentioned earlier, headwinds are also a terrific of daily life. opportunity to gain a competitive advantage. This In this way, IXI and OSX are taking on the is why we continue to engage in forward-looking challenges of answering social needs and creating strategic management to overcome uncertainties business models through state-of-the-art in the future. We look beyond the immediate future technology human resources and open innovation. and prepare for several different future scenarios. By strengthening our technology and human We intend to tack into these headwinds proactively, resources, we will continue to create innovation investing in structural reform and growth strategies that leads the world. for a stronger group-wide earnings capacity. By P2 SINIC Theory P39 Technology Management mastering knowledge management, which Social Change Predicted by the SINIC Theory 1876 1945 1975 2005 2025 2033 Optimization Autonomous Natural Society Society Society Second Industrial Priority on productivity Higher degree of Society offering information Society allowing people to Sustainable society Revolution to produce goods in individual freedom; IT and functions tailored to the express themselves while incorporating abundance revolution individual living in harmony with mechanisms of life others Conflict The Optimization Society is a transition between Cybernation Mechanization Society and the Autonomous Society. It is a time of confrontation and conflict between old and new values as the focus changes from products and goods to more mindful endeavors. The SINIC Theory predicts that overcoming this cycle of destruction and creation will lead to an Autonomous Society in which people are allowed to express themselves while living in harmony with others. 17 Vision Strategy Business Governance Financial Info Corporate Info standardizes and develops the knowledge of our strengthened the resources needed for growth. For entire organization, we aim to create innovations the second half of VG2.0, which begins this year, driven by social needs using technology, human we will use the resources we have cultivated and resources, and expertise as our advantage, aiming the skills we have developed to create value unique for a sustainable growth structure that balances to OMRON. It is precisely in these difficult times both economic and social value. that we must always be moving forward. We will continue to be a company that sees change as an – Last, what are the future prospects and opportunity, taking on the challenge to improve challenges for OMRON? lives and contribute to a better society and serving We expect the current uncertain business as an organization that continues to live up to the environment to continue for some time to come. high expectations of people from all over the world. However, as I mentioned before, mediumto longThat is the vision for which OMRON strives. term social issues that can be solved through OMRON technology and businesses are becoming more apparent. These include labor shortages due to the declining birthrate and aging population and lifestyle-related diseases that are rapidly increasing in the world. It is time for us to demonstrate our true worth. During the first half of VG2.0, we sufficiently 18 Strategy VG2.0 Medium-Term Management Plan A Road Map Anchored in the Future In 2011, OMRON started Value Generation 2020 (VG2020), a plan that outlines a 10-year vision for our company. VG2.0, our medium-term management plan launched in fiscal 2017, is the last stage of VG2020. Spanning four fiscal years, VG2.0 also defines our long-term strategy to respond to social change beyond the timeframe. In drafting VG2.0, we forecast future world trends and social changes, incorporating these projections of the future into our strategies. VG2.0 also reflects considerations of the SINIC theory (OMRON’s unique future predictive model) and Sustainable Development Goals*. Innovation driven by social needs. It is a core tenet of the OMRON Principles and a concept driving us to solve social issues through leveraging open innovation with customers and partners. To achieve this, we have set four focused domain in growing market where we can exhibit our strength: Factory Automation, Healthcare, Mobility, and Energy Management. * Goals for sustainable development adopted by the United Nations. OMRON Growing Concern for Social Issues Sustainability VG2.0 Labor shortages Frequent traffic accidents, Adapting to changes in congestion Business Strategies manufacturing Deteriorating urban environment 1. Redefine focus domains and maximize the strength of businesses 2. Evolve business models Aging society Soaring medical costs Advancing climate change 3. Reinforce core technologies Rapid Technological Innovation Collaborative Creation with Partners Operations/Functional Strategies AI Human Capital Management, Manufacturing / Environment, and Risk Management IoT Robotics 19 Vision Strategy Business Governance Financial Info Corporate Info VG2.0 and Sustainability Initiatives OMRON has aligned sustainability targets with our VG2.0 goals to pursue sustainable corporate value through the generation of social value. Based on the OMRON Sustainability Policy, we identified social issues in VG2.0 to be solved through four focus business domains, while selecting core sustainability issues to support our execution of VG2.0 as well as answer the expectations of our stakeholders. We set goals in these areas to achieve by fiscal 2020, and began working toward these goals in fiscal 2017. In the same year, we added progress toward VG2.0 and sustainability indicators* evaluated by third parties into the mediumand long-term performance-linked stock based compensation system for our officers and directors. P77 * Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) Principles Policy VG2.0 Targets A global valuecreating group that is Sustainability Initiatives qualitatively and quantitatively superior Social Issues to be solved through our Business P21 Net Sales ¥1 trillion FA Healthcare Mobility Energy Management Operating Income ¥100 billion P11 CEO Interview 2030 Shared Goals (SDGs) Collaborative Creation with Partners Among International Society Issues Responding to Stakeholder Expectations P23 Human Capital Management Manufacturing / Environment Risk Management https://www.un.org/ sustainabledevelopment/ 20 Strategy Sustainability Initiatives: Progress Sustainability Initiatives: Progress In fiscal 2018, OMRON established a company-wide management structure aimed at achieving our fiscal 2020 Sustainability Goals. We have made steady progress in solving individual issues through Sustainability Promotion Committee and Executive Council discussions and engagement activities in response to stakeholder evaluations. The Board of Directors receives reports from operating divisions, oversight and supervising initiatives related to sustainability issues. Board of Directors Supervision Board of Director Supervision Report Executive Council Operating Divisions PDCA for Sustainability Issues Fiscal Year Results Fiscal Year Plan (Policy Formulation Act Plan (Target Selection) and Revision) Executive Council Sustainability Issues Executive Council Progress Monitoring Check Do Implementation and (Identify Gap Between Social Advancement of Trends and Evaluations) Sustainability Issues Sustainability Committee Use in Information Company-Wide Management Cycle Evaluations Disclosure Stakeholder Engagement Company-wide management structure for promote sustainability goals Solving Social Issues Through our Businesses (Four Domains) Factory Automation P43  abor shortages (shrinking labor force in developed countries and lack of skilled workers L Social Issues in emerging economies) to be Solved Respond to increasingly advanced and diversified manufacturing processes Fiscal 2020 New innovative-Automation products across four focus industries Goals – Control technology for manufacturing innovation – Created innovative applications and new products through co-creation with important customers; introduced innovations to production floors integrated: Provided sensory testing to replicate skilled technicians adapting to evolutions in high-speed, high-precision motion control Fiscal 2018 intelligent: Started providing i-BELT service; i-BELT utilizes production floor data, Progress contributing to knowledge management of skilled workers and production floor improvements interactive: Introduced a cooperative robot that performs simple operations instead of workers; contributes to flexible production floors harming between worker and machine D  oubled speed of 3D high-precision PCB inspections using Automated X-Ray Inspection Case Studies System stemming from developments based in the three is. 21 Vision Strategy Business Governance Financial Info Corporate Info Healthcare P55 Increased incidence of brain diseases and cardiovascular diseases attributable to Social Issues hypertension to be Solved Increased worldwide prevalence of asthma and other respiratory diseases B  lood pressure monitor sales: 25 million units/year Fiscal 2020 Develop technologies to continuously monitor blood pressure fluctuations Goals Nebulizer and asthma wheeze monitor sales: 7.65 million units/year Sales area for blood pressure monitors and nebulizers currently expanding Fiscal 2018 D  eveloped wearable blood pressure monitors to track blood pressure variations; Progress introduced in the US in December 2018 (Response to brain diseases and cardiovascular diseases) Published Consensus Thesis Regarding the Significance of Nighttime Measurement of Case Studies Hypertension in the Journal of Hypertension of the European Society of Hypertension; goal of publication was to spur the development of analysis tools that enable monitoring of blood pressure fluctuations Mobility P51,53 R  apid rise in the risk of accidents in developed countries, as well as accidents and traffic Social Issues congestion in emerging economies to be Solved Increase in traffic congestion and increased environmental burden in emerging economies  reation driving safety support systems, technologies (SSB) C Creation front-of-vehicle recognition technologies for advanced driving support/selfFiscal 2020 driving vehicles (AEC) Goals Number of vehicles equipped with ecofriendly products: 12 million/year (ratio of high fuel efficiency products; 50%) (AEC) B  egan adoption of the DriveKarte safe driving management service (SSB) Completed advancements in safe driving indicators, completed verification tests towards Fiscal 2018 commercialization (SSB) Progress As sales of vehicles featuring eco-friendly products increased, ratio of high-fuel-efficiency products also increased (AEC) A dopted the DriveKarte safe driving management service in several hundred OMRONowned vehicles in January 2019. Activity trackers were provided to employees who make Case Studies particularly frequent use of company vehicles. Verification tests conducted to determine relationship between sleep and other lifestyle habits (health condition) and safe driving. Energy Management P59 Social Issues Global warming from CO2 emissions, and slow growth of the renewable energy market to be Solved Cumulative shipped capacity of solar power/storage battery systems: 11.2GW Fiscal 2020 B  uild the energy resource aggregation business using solar power/storage battery Goals systems (Japan) Fiscal 2018 Cumulative shipped capacity of solar power/storage battery systems: 8.8GW Progress Strong performance in storage battery systems P  articipated in verification tests on electricity charge and discharge control (increase Case Studies electricity usage efficiency within buildings) and area electricity stability 22 Strategy Sustainability Initiatives: Progress Solving Issues Responding to Stakeholder Expectations OMRON has set a total of 11 sustainability targets for issues to respond to stakeholder expectations. Here, we will provide six examples of these targets. We intend to publish information related to all targets on our website. Human Capital Management P61 Talent Attraction and Development Continued expansion of TOGA*1 to encourage the practice of OMRON Principles Major Fiscal Ratio of non-Japanese in managerial positions overseas: 66% 2020 Goals Accelerate the PDCA implementation via employee engagement surveys VOICE*2 Increase in employee participation in TOGA: 22% vs. prior year Fiscal 2018 Ratio of non-Japanese in managerial positions overseas: 62% Progress Increased opportunities for communications between management and employees based Highlights on VOICE results (VOICE) Use VOICE results to identify issues common to organizational units and implement Case Studies countermeasures, including better communication of our entire vision/strategy structure, increased personnel training, and improved business productivity Wellness Management Major Fiscal Improve awareness of wellness management (encourage activities based on Boost5*3 2020 Goals globally) Fiscal 2018  stablished Boost5; promoted the program throughout our domestic group E Progress Set Boost5 activity goals for each overseas region; launched initiatives Highlights P  ublished the OMRON Health White Paper; educated employees on the relationship between Boost5 and employee health and performance Case Studies Selected for the first time by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and the Tokyo Stock Exchange as a Management Health Brand 2019 (February 2019) Respect for Human Rights and Labor Practices Major Fiscal Define and adopt due diligence process for human rights 2020 goals Implement human rights risk analysis and corrective actions at production centers Fiscal 2018 Carried out a survey into actual conditions of employees at on-site contractors in Japan Progress Investigated and analyzed risks to human rights at 21 global production centers (increase Highlights of five centers year on year) Identified potential risks to human rights such as forced labor, child labor, harassment, and Case Studies foreign workers in production centers; implemented preventative measures (e.g.: review of employment rules, training) 23 Vision Strategy Business Governance Financial Info Corporate Info Manufacturing / Environment P67 Product Safety and Quality Major Fiscal Product safety assessments for newly developed products: 100% 2020 Goals Improve product safety assessments Fiscal 2018 Product safety assessments for newly developed products: 100% Progress Improved details of assessments; started trials using new processes Highlights Revised guidelines for OMRON Group rules*4  xpand assessments to include the latest safety standards, laws and regulations, and E Case Studies market/customer usability improvements; apply to assessment processes in each business. Environment Major Fiscal  educe total GHG emissions by 4 percent (vs. fiscal 2016) R 2020 Goals Environmental contribution to exceed CO2 emissions from production centers C  ompleted creation of an action plan for a 4 percent reduction by fiscal 2020 Fiscal 2018 Promoted wide-scale energy-savings and use of clean energy Progress Environmental contribution of 1.055 million tons of CO2 saved vs. 193,000 tons of CO2 Highlights emissions from production centers  etermine potential of GHG reductions, and formulate a plan to introduce energy-savings D Case Studies and renewable energy Starting procurement of zero CO2 electricity in the Kanto and Kansai regions Risk Management P69 Information Security, Personal Information Protection Major Fiscal Build a new information security system 2020 goals Fiscal 2018 Completed support for laws and regulations such as GDPR*5 Progress Started intensive monitoring of threat information related to information security Highlights Concluded contract for data migration between group companies  urveyed personal information protection laws in each country; updated OMRON Group S Case Studies rules Improved training of employees in personal information security *1 TOGA: The OMRON Global Awards *2 VOICE: VG OMRON Interactive Communication with Employee *3 Boost5: Five areas of physical and mental health (Exercise, Sleep, Mental Health, Nutrition, Smoking) *4 OMRON Group Rules encompass 24 separate topics, including ethical conduct, risk management, unauthorized control, information security, safety assurance business management, IT controls, accounting and funding, labor and occupational health, environmental management, purchasing, and brand logo management. *5 GDPR: EU General Data Protection Regulations 24 Strategy Earnings Structure and Global Business OMRON manufactures and sells market-leading sensing and control products in 117 countries around the world. Our products include control equipment, electronic components, automotive electronic components, social systems, and healthcare. Other Businesses Eliminations and Corporate Identifying and developing the next generation of OMRON businesses 1 % Industrial Automation Healthcare Business (HCB) ¥5.2 billion Business (IAB) Providing a comprehensive lineup OMRON’s mainstay of healthcare products for home and hospital use 4% business; innovating global manufacturing through factory 41.7 billion automation 13% ¥115.5 billion Fiscal 2018 9% Net Sales 46 % ¥75.0 billion by Segment ¥391.8 billion ¥859.5 billion 15% ¥130.5 billion 12 % ¥99.7 billion Social Systems, Solutions Automotive Electronic Electronic and Mechanical and Service Business (SSB) Components Business (AEC) Components Business (EMC) Offering social infrastructure Developing new ideas in Providing the market with systems for a safer, more automotive electronics to make sophisticated components that comfortable society automobiles safer and more create seamless relationships environmentally friendly between people and machines Fiscal 2018 Earnings by Business Segment (Billions of yen) BUSINESS SEGMENT NET SALES OPERATING INCOME (LOSS) OPERATING INCOME MARGIN Industrial Automation Business (IAB) 391.8 62.9 16.1% Electronic and Mechanical Components Business (EMC) 99.7 8.2 8.2% Automotive Electronic Components Business (AEC) 130.5 6.3 4.8% Social Systems, Solutions and Service Business (SSB) 75.0 5.8 7.7% Healthcare Business (HCB) 115.5 13.0 11.3% Other Businesses 41.7 (0.5) — Eliminations and Corporate 5.2 (19.1) — Total 859.5 76.6 8.9% At a meeting held April 16, 2019, the OMRON board of directors resolved to transfer the business of AEC OMRON operating segment, namely all shares of consolidated subsidiary OMRON Automotive Electronics Co., Ltd. (Note 1), all shares, etc., of two consolidated subsidiaries, including OMRON AUTOMOTIVE ELECTRONICS de Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V., and the automotive electronic components businesses of three consolidated subsidiaries for compensation in the amount of JPY100 billion (Note 2) to Nidec Corp. The share transfer agreement was executed on the same day as the meeting of the board of directors. In connection with this decision, OMRON has classified the above-referenced businesses as discontinued operations as of the first quarter of the current consolidated fiscal year. We have classified results as continuing operations and discontinued operations for presentation herein. This transaction is scheduled to be completed by the end of October 2019; however, the transaction must receive approval by the antitrust regulatory authorities in each country. Accordingly, the effective date of this transaction has yet to be determined. OMRON is currently assessing the impact of this transaction on our financial statements. If deemed necessary, we will make the appropriate disclosures promptly upon determination. 25 Notes: 1. Nine subsidiaries of OAE will also be transferred, removed as consolidated subsidiaries of OMRON. 2. The total transfer price will be finalized at a future date based on the conditions including financial data stated in the transfer agreement. Accordingly, the figures stated above may change in the future. Vision Strategy Business Governance Financial Info Corporate Info Direct Exports 1% ¥8.9 billion Asia Pacific 13 % ¥108.4 billion Fiscal 2018 Japan Ratio of overseas Greater China Net Sales 39 % sales to net sales Approx. 20 % by Region*1 ¥335.2 billion ¥169.6 61% ¥859.5 billion billion Europe 14% Americas ¥122.4 billion 13% ¥115.0 billion Asia Pacific 19% Japan 6,558 Ratio of overseas Fiscal 2018 32% 11,365 employees to Employee Ratio total employees by Region*1*2 35,090 Approx. 68% Greater China 30% Employees 10,533 Worldwide Americas Europe 12% 4,186 7 % 2,448 *1 Regional categories are defined as follows: Americas: North America, Central America, South America Europe: Europe, Russia, Africa, Middle East Greater China: China, Taiwan, Hong Kong Asia Pacific: Southeast Asia, Korea, India, Oceania *2 As of March 31, 2019 26 Strategy Market Share and Sales by Product The six OMRON business segments each feature product lines that boast top share in global or Japanese markets. Industrial Automation Business Share of the Control-Related Equipment Market (Japan) Approx.40% Source: Nippon Electric Control Equipment Industries Association Output + Robot Input 11% Servo Motors and Drivers Vision Sensors 37% Safety Light Sales by Curtains Product Mobile Robots Logic 52% Fiber Sensors Programmable Motion Safety Controllers Controllers Controllers Electric and Mechanical Components Business Share of the Relays Market (Global) Approx.20% Source: Internal survey Other Electric Components Relays, Switches, Connectors (Amusement Equipment, Image Sensing, MEMS Sensors etc.) 23% Power Relays for Printed Circuit Boards Sales by Power Supply Units for Amusement Devices Product 77% Surface-Mounted Switches Image Sensing MIL Connectors MEMS Pressure Sensors Automotive Electric Components Business Share of the Body Control Units for Miniature Vehicles Market (Japan) Approx.20% Source: Internal survey Other Switches (Passive Entry/ (Power Window Switches, Push-Button Engine Power Seat Switches, etc.) Start Systems, Keyless Entry 23% Systems, etc.) Power Sales by Window 52% Switches Product Motor Controllers 25% (Electric Power Steering Controllers, Power Sliding Door Controllers, etc.) Electric Power Steering Controllers 27 Vision Strategy Business Governance Financial Info Corporate Info Social Systems, Solutions and Service Business Share of the Station Equipment Market (Japan) Approx.50% Source: Internal survey Other Public Transportation (Automated Ticket Gates, Ticket Vending (Software Development, etc.) 5% Machines) Uninterruptible Power 10% Ticket Vending Machines Supply Units (UPS) 31% Sales by Product Automated Ticket Gates Engineering, Environmental Solutions 40% 7% Road Traffic 7% (Road Traffic Management Systems, etc.) Payment Systems Healthcare Business Share of the Home-Use Blood Pressure Monitors Market (Global) Approx.50% Source: Internal survey Other (Activity Trackers, Blood Pressure etc.) Monitors Body Composition 15% Monitors 4% Thermometers 7% Sales by Product 7% 56% 11% Low-frequency therapy equipment Nebulizers Other Businesses Share of the Residential-Use PV Inverters Market (Japan) Approx.30% Source: Internal survey Environmental Solutions PV Inverter Backlights LCD Backlights † Fiscal 2018 results 28 Strategy Financial Highlights Gross Profit Margin ROIC EPS 41.2% 10.6% ¥260.8 Gross profit margin Selling, general and administrative expenses ratio Earnings per share Cash dividends per share (excluding R&D expenses) R&D expenses ratio Operating income margin Dividend payout ratio Dividend on equity (%) (%) (Yen) (%) 50 15 300 296.9 40 283.9 260.8 13.4 31.1 31.6 40 41.6 41.2 12.7 10.6 219.0 30 39.3 39.3 209.8 215.1 32.2 38.5 38.5 11.3 37.1 10 200 10.3 27.0 30 9.7 25.3 25.0 25.6 8.6 137.2 20 23.4 24.7 24.3 24.7 25.6 20 23.5 23.4 Expected cost 5 of capital 100 84 71 76 10.2 10.0 6% 68 68 10 8.8 7.5 8.6 8.9 53 10 7.0 37 6.7 6.2 6.3 6.4 6.9 6.7 5.7 3.4 3.2 3.3 3.5 2.4 2.9 3.1 0 0 0 0 FY 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 FY 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 FY 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 We set a 40% over for gross profit margin, Our focus on ROIC management resulted OMRON paid dividends of ¥84 per share, driven by stronger earnings capacity in a 10.6% ROIC, far above our 6% representing dividend payout ratio above expected cost of capital. our target of approximately 30% and group-wide. dividend on equity above our target of approximately 3%. Cash and Cash Equivalents Ratio of Overseas Sales to Total Capital Expenditures Net Sales ¥110.3billion 61.0% ¥41.9billion Cash and cash equivalents Overseas total Japan Capital expenditures Total interest-bearing liabilities Depreciation and amortization (Billions of yen) (%) (Billions of yen) 150 70 50 126.0 60 41.9 60.3 61.8 61.0 60.1 58.4 40 38.1 38.9 113.0 110.3 51.1 36.9 55.4 102.6 50 33.7 100 48.9 31.5 90.3 30.5 30 28.3 28.3 29.0 29.5 82.9 40 44.6 41.6 25.1 25.7 39.9 39.7 38.2 39.0 22.5 55.7 30 20 50 20 10 10 5.6 2.1 0.5 0.0 0.0 0.2 0.3 0 0 0 FY 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 FY 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 FY 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 We continued to conduct essentially OMRON’s overseas sales ratio continues OMRON increased production facilities for debt-free management, as cash balances to exceed 60%. future growth and established new bases remain in excess of interest-bearing debt. for strengthening development capabilities. 29 Vision Strategy Business Governance Financial Info Corporate Info Non-Financial Highlights Ratio of Non-Japanese in Ratio of Women in Managerial Roles Ratio of Employees with Disabilities Managerial Positions Overseas (OMRON Group in Japan) (OMRON Group in Japan) 62% 5.2% 2.5% Ratio of women in managerial roles (left) OMRON Group in Japan Japanese national average No. of women in managerial roles (right) (%) (%) 8.0 (%) 80 8 100 4 66 85 62 60 6 75 3 2.6 2.5 2.5 49 49 5.2 2.4 2.4 2.4 46 59 2.2 42 42 53 40 4 50 2 2.1 2.0 3.6 1.9 1.9 36 1.8 1.8 3.3 1.7 30 27 20 2 2.3 25 1 1.8 1.9 0 0 0 0 FY 13 14 15 16 17 18 20 FY 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 FY 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 (Target) (Target) Depending on the size of the overseas We are increasing the ratio of women in We are striving to create more employment OMRON Group companies, we will leadership-level managerial roles in Japan. opportunities and fulfilling work for disabled increase the ratio of local employees to the persons. number of important positions determined by OMRON. * Figures represent results as of April 20. * Figures represent results as of June 20. * In the domestic OMRON group, the number of women in * For companies subject to the Act on Employment * From FY2018, concurrent positions for governance and managerial positions ratio. Promotion etc. of Persons with Disabilities. development positions are excluded. In the case of the * Employment rate calculation is based on the Act on conventional calculation standard, it is 57% in FY2018. Employment Promotion etc. of Persons with Disabilities. Environmental Contribution Greenhouse Gas Emissions 1,055 235 Energy-Generation Product thousand thousand ton-CO2 ton-CO2 Environmental contribution Greenhouse gas emissions CO2 emissions of production sites Net sales to CO2 emissions (Thousand ton-CO2) (Million yen / ton-CO2) (Thousand ton-CO2) 1,200 5 500 1,055 PV inverters 4.47 4.12 4.22 1,000 3.83 3.94 4 400 851 3.60 800 Energy-Saving Product 3.21 661 659 3 271 300 593 250 235 600 508 2 200 400 313 203 215 221 202 202 204 1 100 193 200 0 0 0 FY 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 Electricity monitors (left) Environment ANDON (right) FY 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 We are expanding the environmental contribution of OMRON OMRON established its new environmental target “OMRON products and services that reduce the impact on the environment. Carbon Zero” with the goal of reducing greenhouse gas We also strive to reduce CO2 emissions at our production centers emissions to zero by 2050. OMRON 12 13 has14set 15 greenhouse 16 17 gas 18 through the use of our own energy saving products. emissions as a new indicator to achieve that goal. * Environmental Contribution = Volume of CO2 emissions reduction contributed by * Net sales to CO2 emissions: Net sales per one ton of CO2 emissions society’s use of the OMRON Group’s energy generation and savings products and * Since fiscal 2016, OMRON has been using the following published figures for the CO2 services. emissions coefficient associated with electric power: Calculation method : https://www.omron.com/about/sustainability/environ/ Japan: Ministry of the Environment-By Power Company (updated annually); China: contribution/products/ National Development and Innovation Committee – By Power Company (updated annually); Other: IEA, by country (2011) https://www.omron.com/about/sustainability/environ/reduce/co2/ Indicates independent assurance performed by a third party. P113 Indicates independent verification or review performed by a third party. P113 30 Strategy 11-Year Financial and Non-Financial Highlights OMRON Corporation and Subsidiaries (As of and for the years ended March 31) Long-Term Management Strategy Grand Design 2010 (GD2010) FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 Financial Indicators: Operating Results: Net sales ¥627,190 ¥524,694 ¥617,825 ¥619,461 Gross profit 218,522 184,342 231,702 227,887 Selling, general and administrative expenses (excl. R&D expenses) 164,284 133,426 142,365 145,662 R&D expenses 48,899 37,842 41,300 42,089 Operating income 5,339 13,074 48,037 40,136 EBITDA (Note 1) 38,835 40,088 71,021 62,753 Net income (loss) attributable to OMRON shareholders (29,172) 3,518 26,782 16,389 Cash Flows: Net cash provided by operating activities 31,408 42,759 41,956 31,946 Net cash used in investing activities (40,628) (18,584) (20,210) (26,486) Free cash flow (Note 2) (9,220) 24,175 21,746 5,460 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 21,867 (20,358) 3,333 (33,492) Financial Position: Total assets 538,280 532,254 562,790 537,323 Cash and cash equivalents 46,631 51,726 74,735 45,257 Total interest-bearing liabilities 52,970 36,612 45,519 18,774 Total shareholders’ equity 298,411 306,327 312,753 320,840 Per Share Data: Net income (loss) attributable to OMRON shareholders (EPS) (132.2) 16.0 121.7 74.5 Shareholders’ equity 1,355.4 1,391.4 1,421.0 1,457.5 Cash dividends (Note 3) 25 17 30 28 Dividend payout ratio — 106.4% 24.7% 37.6% Other Financial Data: Gross profit margin 34.8% 35.1% 37.5% 36.8% Operating income margin 0.9% 2.5% 7.8% 6.5% EBITDA margin 6.2% 7.6% 11.5% 10.1% Return on invested capital (ROIC) (7.6%) 1.0% 7.8% 4.8% Return on equity (ROE) (8.7%) 1.2% 8.7% 5.2% Ratio of shareholders’ equity to total assets 55.4% 57.6% 55.6% 59.7% Total return ratio (Note 4) — 106.7% 25.2% 37.7% Capital expenditures 36,844 19,524 23,192 28,341 Depreciation and amortization 33,496 27,014 22,984 22,617 Ratio of overseas sales 49.7% 50.7% 51.4% 52.2% Non-Financial Indicators: Number of employees 32,583 36,299 35,684 35,992 Ratio of overseas employees to total employees 63.4% 68.1% 67.8% 67.7% Ratio of non-Japanese in managerial positions overseas — — — 34% Ratio of women in managerial roles (OMRON Group in Japan) — — — — No. of women in managerial roles — — — — Ratio of employees with disabilities (OMRON Group in Japan) 2.1% 2.1% 2.2% 2.2% Number of patents held (Note 5) 5,205 5,218 5,452 5,959 Environmental contribution (thousand ton-CO2) — — 193 189 CO2 emissions of production sites (thousand ton-CO2) — — 187 193 Net sales to CO2 emissions (million yen / ton-CO2) — — 3.31 3.21 Greenhouse gas emissions (thousand ton-CO2) — — — — Notes: 1. EBITDA = Operating income + Depreciation and amortization 2. Free cash flow = Net cash provided by operating activities + Net cash used in investing activities 3. Cash dividends per share represent the amounts applicable to the respective year, including dividends to be paid after the end of the fiscal year. 4. Total return ratio = (Total dividends paid + Amount of shares repurchased) / Net income (loss) attributable to OMRON shareholders (does not include repurchases of less than one trading unit) 5. Patent information is as of March 15 each year. 31 Vision Strategy Business Governance Financial Info Corporate Info Value Generation 2020 (VG2020) FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 (Millions of yen) ¥650,461 ¥772,966 ¥847,252 ¥833,604 ¥794,201 ¥859,982 ¥859,482 241,507 297,208 332,607 320,812 312,161 357,812 354,093 152,676 181,225 198,103 205,735 193,093 212,481 219,683 43,488 47,928 47,913 52,790 50,539 59,077 57,777 45,343 68,055 86,591 62,287 68,529 86,254 76,633 67,795 93,144 114,930 93,747 97,495 115,719 107,092 30,203 46,185 62,170 47,290 45,987 63,159 54,323 53,058 79,044 77,057 84,207 77,875 73,673 71,245 (28,471) (31,125) (39,517) (67,116) (15,041) (55,842) (34,957) 24,587 47,919 37,540 17,091 62,834 17,831 36,288 (18,550) (16,298) (29,303) (31,550) (15,012) (33,082) 40,783 573,637 654,704 711,011 683,325 697,701 744,952 749,878 55,708 90,251 102,622 82,910 126,026 113,023 110,250 5,570 488 0 0 156 298 2,086 366,962 430,509 489,769 444,718 469,029 505,530 504,212 137.2 209.8 283.9 219.0 215.1 296.9 260.8 1,667.0 1,956.1 2,254.4 2,080.0 2,193.7 2,400.4 2,455.2 37 53 71 68 68 76 84 27.0% 25.3% 25.0% 31.1% 31.6% 25.6% 32.232.2% 37.1% 38.5% 39.3% 38.5% 39.3% 41.6% 41.2% 7.0% 8.8% 10.2% 7.5% 8.6% 10.0% 8.9% 10.4% 12.1% 13.6% 11.2% 12.2% 13.4% 12.5% 8.6% 11.3% 13.4% 9.7% 10.3% 12.7% 10.6% 8.8% 11.6% 13.5% 10.1% 10.1% 13.0% 10.8% 64.0% 65.8% 68.9% 65.1% 67.2% 67.9% 67.2% 27.0% 25.3% 49.1% 62.7% 31.6% 48.2% 79.5% 28,285 33,653 38,143 36,859 25,692 38,852 41,861 22,452 25,089 28,339 31,460 28,966 29,465 30,459 51.1% 55.4% 60.1% 60.3% 58.4% 61.8% 61.0% 35,411 36,842 37,572 37,709 36,008 36,193 35,090 67.4% 69.1% 69.7% 69.3% 68.3% 68.1% 67.6% 36% 42% 42% 46% 49% 49% 62% 1.4% 1.5% 1.8% 1.9% 2.3% 3.3% 3.6% 22 23 27 30 36 53 59 2.2% 2.4% 2.4% 2.4% 2.5% 2.6% 2.5% 6,448 6,635 7,194 7,686 8,224 8,774 9,782 313 661 851 508 593 659 1,055 203 215 221 202 202 204 193 3.21 3.60 3.83 4.12 3.94 4.22 4.47 — — — — 250 271 235 Operating Income OMRON applies the single step presentation of income under U.S. GAAP (that is, the various levels of income are not presented) in its consolidated statements of income. For comparison with other companies, operating income is presented as gross profit less selling, general and administrative expenses and research and development expenses. Changes in Accounting Policies With the company’s adoption of US GAAP in fiscal 2018, we have reclassified consolidated statements of income for fiscal years 2016 and later for presentation herein. 32 CFO Interview ROIC Management: Powering the Growth Cycle with Discipline and Boldness August 2019 Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer CFO and Senior General Manager, Global Strategy HQ Koji Nitto “The OMRON mission is to improve lives and contribute to a better society by implementing the OMRON Principles. So says CFO Koji Nitto, who is responsible for “ROIC management,” the company’s system for accelerating management of the OMRON Principles. Building a “self-driven growth structure” is essential to solving social issues. Through ROIC management, we are implementing self-driven growth and incorporating the creation of innovation into management mechanisms. We spoke with CFO Nitto about building systems to increase earning ability and powering the growth cycle with a combination of discipline and boldness. (Interviewer: Editorial Department) 33 Vision Strategy Business Governance Financial Info Corporate Info these two elements. We can engage boldly with social The Role of the CFO Management issues and continue OMRON’s own unique cycle of based on the OMRON Principlest growth. and Self-Driven Growth Increase Gross Profit Margin to – Editorial Department (in bold below): Could Refine Earning Capacity and Make you talk about management based on the principles that OMRON is striving for and about your role as Necessary Investments CFO in putting these principles into practice? Nitto (omitted below): What are OMRON’s goals and – In the first half of VG2.0, the company what is the purpose of its existence? We are always continued its focus on investment for growth and asking ourselves about the true meaning of the the gross profit margin. Could you explain the corporate motto given to us by our founder Kazuma reasons for that? Tateishi and of the OMRON Principles which have The first 2 years of VG2.0 we have aggressively made inherited the spirit behind that motto. The answer is the necessary investments toward achieving self-driven that it is the duty of all the people working at OMRON growth. We focused on the growth engines of our to practice the OMRON Principles and to improve lives industrial automation and healthcare businesses, and contribute to a better society through our business. extending the range of solutions to make up for where My role as CFO is evaluate investments and to we were short by expanding technologies and redistribute resources with a sense of discipline. products. What we are continuing to focus on toward the – What are the essential elements needed to achievement of self-driven growth is our gross profit solve social issues as called for under the OMRON (GP) margin. That’s because the gross profit margin Principles? represents pure profit attributable to the production of It is essential for OMRON to establish a self-driven physical goods by subtracting from sales the cost of growth structure to solve social issues and achieve sales. Since the gross profit margin is the source of our continuous growth. How can we build that structure? investment resources, we will increase our ability to First, we must continue to create businesses that invest to the extent that the gross profit margin contribute to the betterment of society. Although we increases. In this way, we will set the growth cycle in are currently buffeted by headwinds in the current motion by increasing our competitiveness through business climate, it’s not stopping all economic activity investing. It is vital that we continue to invest for or social initiatives. Mediumand long-term social growth, even in the midst of a tough business climate. issues that we can solve through our businesses are That is why the gross profit margin is so important: it is increasingly apparent. These issues include labor the source of those resources. shortages due to low birth rates and aging It takes more than production to increase the gross demographics. If we can keep our focus on these profit margin: every division of the company, from sales trends and invest in businesses where there are and development, to headquarters, must act in a barriers that our competitors cannot imitate or where coordinated way to increase the gross profit margin. there we have latent competitiveness, we will create For example, it’s exceedingly hard to achieve a 3% cost value in spite of challenges, a veritable “growth engine” reduction with production, but if the gross profit margin that can make meaningful contributions to society. is 50% and sales gives a 1.5% discount, the entire 3% To create this new growth engine, OMRON is cost reduction that production had sweated blood to increasing its spending on development and has set up get to will be wiped out. Since gross profit margin is new organizations like the Innovation Exploring Initiative variable, we make sure everyone in the company HQ and OMRON SINIC X to serve as platforms for understands the importance. As a result, the 36.8% innovation. Through OMRON VENTURES CO., LTD., we gross profit margin in fiscal 2011 at the start of VG2020 are actively investing with venture firms around the increased to 41.2% by fiscal 2018. world to stimulate open innovation. If this 4.4 points increase is calculated backwards from Another element essential for self-driven growth is to net sales of ¥859.5 billion in fiscal 2018, it is apparent continue to grow our businesses and improve that we’ve picked up ¥37.8 billion in investment profitability. We will not be able to achieve self-driven resources. We have significantly increased spending on growth only by creating new businesses. Although we development and SG&A expenses using the resources certainly need new businesses, it is just as important generated by this increase in the gross profit margin, to increase the profitability of and grow all of OMRON’s but we have been able to increase the operating profit businesses through ceaseless structural reform. margin by 2.4 points. We will achieve self-driven growth by accelerating In the second half of fiscal 2019, we will evaluate the 34 Strategy CFO Interview Net Sales, Operating Income, GP (Gross Profit Margin) Results (FY2011-FY2018) Net Sales (billions of yen) Operating Income (billions of yen) GP (Gross Profit Margin) (%) GP Growth Rates, 2011 to 2018 +4.4 points 860.0 859.5 42.0% 847.3 833.6 830.0 41.6% 41.2% 794.2 773.0 39.3% 39.3% 38.5% 86.6 38.5% 86.3 650.5 76.6 36.8% 68.1 68.5 37.1% 65.0 62.3 619.5 45.3 40.1 Year 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 Plan assets acquired as a result of investment for growth to same direction toward the creation of value. Therefore, improve profitability and restructure to build a more our aim is to connect actions through all levels of our muscular OMRON. P37 ROIC Management organization, linking policies set by management to improvement actions performed by employees. Also, to ensure that ROIC management is more deeply understood, we have introduced an interpreted formula ROIC management requires called ROIC Management 2.0. By deploying management discipline ambassadors in each division, we are sharing advanced case studies throughout the company. – In addition to raising the GP margin, what – OMRON also considers portfolio management other unique measures is OMRON taking to to be important. contribute to sustainable corporate value growth? While the business environment is keep changing, not It takes monitoring of return on investment, evaluation, all businesses grow as planned. Disciplined and maximization to make effective use of limited management will be essential for OMRON to achieve resources and to achieve self-driven growth. self-driven growth. With that in mind, we must always Businesses must have earnings capacity in addition to look at the makeup of our business and rebuild our growth power. It is the combination of both of these portfolio to focus our efforts on business that have factors that underlies ROIC management. ROIC is a significant profitability and growth potential. There are crucial management indicator because it measures the nearly 90 business units in OMRON. We are constantly return on invested capital and can be used to assess assessing the economic value and market performance according to the type of business. competitiveness of each of our businesses to make However, approached as a management indicator, critical management judgments about whether to employees on the front line may not see the continue a business or to divest ourselves of it and connection to their own work. That is why we have whether to shift resources to new growth businesses. introduced the Down-Top ROIC Tree. The Down-Top This kind of business assessment using portfolio ROIC Tree breaks down ROIC into the key performance management is essential for sustainable business indicators (KPIs) of the automation rate, the failure cost management. Moreover, disciplined management is ratio, and the facilities turnover rate to find out which necessary in the pursuit of the OMRON Principles. improvements would lead to greater efficiency in As public institutions that should create value, business processes and how these efficiencies would companies are made up of a wide range of in turn lead to improved results. The Down-Top ROIC stakeholders. In the case of institutional investors, Tree is way to visualize this analysis. Each and every there are many people who depend for their livelihood employee must take responsibility for boosting profits on pensions. Profits must be duly returned to these and sustaining growth because if our activities are not indirect stakeholders. In other words, businesses that consistent with one another, we will not move in the cannot generate a minimum level of earnings do not 35 Vision Strategy Business Governance Financial Info Corporate Info make an adequate contribution to the betterment of – Finally, could you talk about sustainable society. To the extent that earnings are a measure of improvements in corporate value with a view to the value a company provides to the world, I believe post Value Generation (VG)? companies must exercise highly disciplined investment This year, due to uncertain economic situation we management through clear rules defining individual expect the factory automation and other industries will activities in a given business field and how much suffer significant impact. We see these challenging income growth is generated. conditions as an excellent opportunity for corporate OMRON has established ROIC of 10% as the bar that reform. Accordingly, we intend to strengthen our each of our businesses must clear. When a business’s corporate infrastructure through more consistent ROIC falls below 6%, we start considering divestiture. implementation of ROIC management. Our expected cost of capital is around 6%. If we carry We also believe that the key to sustainable businesses that do not produce ROIC of at least 6%, improvement in corporate value lies in our ability to we will not generate the capital we need for future innovate. What this means is that during the last two growth. That would contradict the OMRON Principles years of VG 2.0 and beyond, we will forge ahead of contributing to a better society. steadily with discipline and boldness to drive the As a result of various strategies, including Down-Top innovation creation cycle, and we will make sure that ROIC Tree and Portfolio Management, OMRON this system is firmly built into the company’s achieved fiscal2018 ROIC of 10.6%, even while we management mechanism. We will set up a self-driven increased R&D expenses as well as SG&A growth cycle that is unique to OMRON to enhance expenditures in expectation of growth. This level of corporate value by solving social issues –. My ROIC is significantly higher than the average 6.75% for mission as CFO is to continue this work. all publicly-traded companies in Japan. P37 ROIC Management OMRON has established a unique growth cycle to enhance corporate value by solving social issues – Tell us about policies and strategies for the improvement of shareholder value. VG2.0 growth cycle Going forward, we will continue to accelerate our growth cycle by steadily implementing a growth strategy based on ROIC, and we will achieve further growth by allocating profits generated by high GP rates to growth investments. Our plans call for investing the profits generated by this growth cycle in accordance Sales Growth Improve GP with appropriate cash management and profit margin distribution policies. In improving shareholder value, we (Improve gross will implement investment for growth, stable dividends, Growth profit margin) and opportunistic stock buybacks, in that order. The Cycle annual dividend for fiscal 2019 is calculated by applying the dividend on equity ratio (DOE) standard due to uncertainty about the business climate. There has been a growing demand in recent years for companies to demonstrate sustainability in terms of Growth ESG and SDGs. This means that these days, shareholders will select companies that use the assets investments entrusted to them by shareholders to build a better society while being able to provide solid returns. To respond to their expectations, OMRON will achieve business growth by accelerating ROIC management while solving social issues with OMRON’s unique technology and services as contribute to building a better world. We will achieve both of these goals. 36 Strategy ROIC Management ROIC management consists of Down-Top ROIC Tree and Portfolio Management. OMRON encompasses a number of business divisions with varied characteristics. We believe ROIC is an excellent measure for assessing business performance fairly for each business. Using operating income or operating income margin as an indicator doesn’t account for variances due to the nature or scope of a business. ROIC, on the other hand, measures return on invested capital, providing a fair assessment. Under VG2.0, we have defined four focus domains. ROIC is an indispensable tool as we continue to grow our unique business portfolio. ROIC Management Down-Top Portfolio ROIC Tree Management Down-Top ROIC Tree Down-Top ROIC Tree breaks ROIC into key performance indicators for each department, allowing us to improve ROIC at the most basic operating level. Down-Top ROIC Tree Using simple ROS or invested capital turnover as ROIC indicators are ineffective, since they do not KPI Drivers relate directly to front-line operations. On-site Sales in Focus Industries / Areas Gross Profit Margin managers would have trouble thinking of ways to Sales of New / Focus Products improve ROIC using these indicators. However, we can break ROIC down into automation/head count Selling Price Control Added-Value % reduction or facilities turnover as KPIs of Variable Cost Reduction, Value % manufacturing departments. With these indicators, Defect Cost % ROS managers can finally see how their goals tie directly Per-Head Production #Units Fixed Manufacturing to ROIC improvement initiatives. At OMRON, one of Automation % Costs % (Headcount Reduction) our greatest strengths is our unified approach to improving ROIC from the ground level up. Labor Costs-Sales % SG&A % Invested Capital Turnover R&D % ROIC Inventory Turnover Months Working Capital Slow-Moving Inventory Months Turnover Credits & Debits Months Facilities Turnover Fixed Asset Turnover (1/N Automation Ratio) 37 Vision Strategy Business Governance Financial Info Corporate Info Portfolio Management OMRON consists of approximately 90 business units, each subject to a portfolio management system that assesses the economic value of the unit according to (1) ROIC and (2) sales growth rate. In this way, OMRON management can make proper and timely decisions related to new business entry, growth acceleration, restructuring, or divestiture to drive improvements in OMRON Group value. We consider both the economic value and the market competitiveness of a business to allocate limited resources in an optimal manner. This assessment system allows us to identify the growth potential of each business unit, making an optimal allocation of our resources. Assessing Economic Value Assessing Competitiveness B S B S Sales Growth Rate (%) Market Growth Rate (%) Expecting Growth Investment C A C A Profit Restructuring Examining Regrowth ROIC (%) Market Share (%) Embracing ROIC Management To promote ROIC management more widely, we introduced ROIC Management 2.0 in 2015. ROIC Management 2.0 incorporates a qualitative interpretation of ROIC. The interpreted formula tells us to add needed management resources (N) and generate greater levels of value to our customers (V), while reducing loss-making management resources (L). Using this simple interpreted formula, our employees in charge of sales or development functions who may be unfamiliar with financial statement concepts are able to envision ROIC improvement measures in their day-today work. Staff in charge of business unit accounting and finance act as ambassadors responsible for promoting ROIC Management 2.0. Ambassadors provide simple case studies of successful ROIC Management 2.0 initiatives to raise awareness of ROIC on the front lines of our businesses around the world. ROIC Translation Under ROIC Management 2.0 Actively invest needed management resources (N) in order to create value (V) Realize value to our customers (V) more Value to our Customers ROIC than the investment amount (N) (L) Needed Management Loss-Making Reduce loss-making management resources (L) Resources Management Resources Goods, Money, Time Muri, Muda, Mura and shift/invest it to (N) (overburden, waste, unevenness) 38 CTO Interview Innovation driven by Social Needs with Technology and Human Resources The Challenge of Evolving Technology Management August 2019 Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer, CTO and Senior General Manager, Technology & Intellectual Property HQ and Senior General Manager, Innovation Exploring Initiative HQ Kiichiro Miyata OMRON is implementing management based on the OMRON Principles to create Social Needs for solving social issues. Management based on the OMRON Principles is supported by Technology Management. OMRON has leveraged the power of technology to create a series of the world-first products and systems such as non-contact switches and automatic ticket gates. With the ever-increasing pace of technological innovations such as AI, IoT, and robotics, how does OMRON envision the future and what social issues will the company solve? We asked CTO Miyata, who has been given the job of accelerating OMRON innovation, about evolving technology management. (Interviewer: Editorial Department) 39 Vision Strategy Business Governance Financial Info Corporate Info and business validation. We accumulate knowledge Creating a Template for generated by this organization in-house. OMRON-style Innovation – This organization consists of the Innovation Exploring Initiative HQ (IXI), which started full– Editorial Department (following in bold): scale operations in April 2018, and its subsidiary Regarding OMRON-style innovation, How do OMRON SINIC X Corporation (OSX). It’s been a you define it and how are you trying to year since this organization started up. What’s accelate? been the response so far? Miyata (omitted below) : OMRON-style innovation IXI is an organization that has all the capabilities relies on technology innovation to perform nearnecessary to do backcasting innovation, and can go future design tailored to solving social issues. This through the entire process in a single operation. is what OMRON’s technology management is all The role of the OSX subsidiary is to do the nearabout. future research that is the starting point for the Since coming on as CTO, I have worked to pick up process of creating innovation. OSX has brought in the pace with which OMRON as an organization many top talents from outside in the fields of AI, innovates by establishing and strengthening IoT, robotics, and other leadingedge technologies. technology management to enhance our ability to This company makes the best use of talented staff, create solutions to social needs. By developing and while working with research groups inside and implementing a company-wide technology strategy outside OMRON, engaging in open innovation and we have sharpened our Sensing & Control + Think performing near-future design. core technologies. Especially since the start of When IXI was set up, the focus was on making it VG2.0 in 2017, we have created a template for an innovation platform for OMRON. OMRON has OMRON-style innovation that meets the needs of tried, but failed, several times in the past to the era to improve our technology management establish a department that creates new and speed up the creation of innovative businesses. When we looked back on why these technologies. Specifically, we have set up a attempts failed, we found the answer. That was professional organization to create backcasting because it was a “remote island.” In addition to innovation that begins from the standpoint of nearbeing highly independent, there was a “show us future design and extends to developing strategies what you’ve got” attitude from the standpoint of Innovation Exploring Initiative HQ (IXI) as Group-Wide Innovation Platform Innovation Driven by Social Needs Near Future Design Strategy Development Business Verification IXI Project Management Responsible Project Management OMRON SINIC X Team Organization Team Corporation Business Incubation (OSX) Center Business Division Theme creation Implementation OMRON Group Members 40 Business CTO Interview our existing business units, and the business units – This means that the “template” for were not able to provide compelling ideas or OMRON-style innovation is starting to work. On leadership. The challenge was how to change this the other hand, the technology to create situation. innovation is essential. What has been the To achieve this change, we have actively promoted response to the strengthening of core IXI since its establishment both inside and outside technologies? of OMRON. As a result, IXI has brought in over 60 It takes people to create and refine technologies. In ideas over the past year from inside and outside of the process of implementing our company-wide the company, and nearly 20 projects have been technology strategy, we have been paying particular launched that promise to have a real impact. In attention to hiring and training technical people. addition, over 20 young strategic candidates from One result of this is that we have been raising the across the company have participated in IXI. number of technical presentations and the quality One of the projects launched by IXI is the and quantity of our patent holdings. In FY2018, we Cooperation agreement to solve problems in increased both the number of technical Japan’s regional cities with a view toward 2030 presentations and number of patents held by a which was announced jointly in April 2019 by the substantial factor of 1.4 over FY2014. In terms of city of Maizuru in Kyoto Prefecture and OMRON’s the quality of our technology as well, the number of Social Systems, Solutions and Service Business. OMRON technical papers selected by leading The impetus for this project came about when scientific meetings has increased, while we have Mr.Yamaguchi who is deputy mayor of Maizuru nearly doubled the ratio of patents offering promise became aware of the existence of OSX and of making significant contributions to our business. indicated that he wanted to work with OMRON on These are solid results. This shows how far we’ve regional development in Japan. The decision was raised the bar on our ability to implement into made by IXI to start up the project immediately technologies into society from across OMRON. after discussions between the deputy mayor of We are also seeing the creation of near future Maizuru and the CEO of OSX, and a project team technologies and concepts such as technology that consisting of people from the city of Maizuru, IXI, integrates the learning models of artificial and SSB was formed. The project team held intelligence (AI) using distributed data, platforms discussions about what framework needs to be that remotely control robots, and the image built to revitalize regional cities with populations inspection technology that can replicate human between 50,000 and 100,000 people, what these senses and other unique near future technologies. cities should look like in 2030, and what sorts of technologies and business models are needed to As We Advance into the Future, We achieve these goals. The project is currently at the stage where demonstration tests are being will Move to Still-higher Levels of conducted toward the implementation of the nearInnovation. future designs that have been created. This is an example of IXI’s innovation creation process, one – I can see how you’ve managed to improve which develops near-future in response to social both the template and the technology. What are issues, formulates strategies and business some of the tasks that lie ahead for OMRON? validation, and demonstrates the dependability of As we have improved our skills in technology the system that makes this all possible. management, new issues have emerged as we There are a number of projects like this that are further accelerate our response to Innovation driven now under way. Management needs to be patient by social needs. That is, how do we create because it takes time to achieve great results. innovation with high social value that is There really is a great deal of potential here. I’m accompanied by technological innovation. As we really looking forward to seeing what develops. see in the case of the city of Maizuru, we have set P53 Social Systems, Solutions and Service Business (SSB) up a process for creating innovation with high value to society that involves designing for the near 41 Vision Strategy Business Governance Financial Info Corporate Info future with social issues as the starting point, and Advancing into the Future and Moving to Stillthen implementing these designs in society. We higher Levels of Innovation. are also training people who can engage in that Social Project in cooperation OMRON’s goal: innovation with the city of Maizuru process. However, for OMRON to continue as a (Social value Innovation that has high social venture that on its own creates an autonomous is high) value and new society, we need to create innovation that has high technology social value and technical innovation that can solve future social issues that no one can anticipate. In the project with the city of Maizuru, we are demonstrating social value and are studying ways to further enhance innovation through technology. To that end, in FY 2019, we will closely focus on Technical innovation creating new value to increase social value and on strengthening competitiveness with advanced technology to bring about technological innovation. continuing the training of human resources through Specifically, we will focus on strengthening human the implementation of policies that facilitate the resources, structure, and on knowledge search for new technologies. management. We’re also creating opportunities for people to gain It is urgent in particular that we train architect experience in testing out intuitive ideas and giving human resources that can build the technology and shape to these ideas through systems designed to intellectual property strategies and business enhance both social and technical value. We are models that will be essential to run the innovation creating opportunities for team members to refine creation process at IXI. We also need people at the their ideas through the process of discussion and Technology & Intellectual Property Headquarters debate with people who have a different outlooks who can leverage AI, robotics, and other core and a diversity of knowledge. technologies to fuel the process of technical The expertise gained from success stories at IXI innovation. These types of people are hard to find through the experience of running their processes in the employment marketplace, so we have to along with the value creation expertise of the train them and increase their numbers ourselves. Technology & Intellectual Property Headquarters That’s why IXI has created a new internal strategic will be accumulated as organizational knowledge to human resources development organization. In FY ensure reproducibility and continuity. This 2018, we identified conceptual ability, organizational knowledge will be transformed into communications ability, and the ability to carry assets that can be deployed throughout OMRON. tasks to completion as the three elements required OMRON’s technology management has of architect human resources. These are the frameworks such as stances, strategies, processes, abilities needed in the areas of technology strategy, organizations, and systems as well as the human intellectual property strategy, and creating business resources to put these in to action. Going forward, models. We also assessed the degree to which we will develop knowledge management, which is each of these abilities are needed. To expand our an all-out battle to bring together company-wide capabilities in these areas, we will be training knowledge that are organically linked to strategic human resources candidates who are frameworks and human resources to maximize participating from throughout the company by results. We will also create the conditions in which having them engage in a variety of experiences in we generate a series of responses to social needs the innovation creation process that has been in every OMRON organization. developed by IXI. Core technology human You can expect more innovation driven by social resources start from the definitions of capability needs from OMRON. requirements, making reference to IXI’s human resource development process. Meanwhile, the Technology & Intellectual Property Headquarters is 42 Business Industrial Automation Domain Factory Automation Corresponding SDGs Business (IAB) Vision Bring Innovation to Manufacturing by Automation, to Enrich Lives of People All Over the World. The Industrial Automation Business leverages OMRON technologies to create innovations in manufacturing. These innovations contribute to productivity advancements in the world’s manufacturing industry. The pace of automation on production floors is increasing. Today, the automation of production floor are growing rapidly. Setting our unique innovative-Automation concept, our aim is to enrich the lives of people around the world by generating/making manufacturing innovations through our technologies and solutions based on the widest range of control devices in the industrial market. Executive Vice President Company President, Industrial Automation Company Yutaka Miyanaga Common Issues on Production Floors Production floors are entering a period of major transition. This includes changes of nee needs in manufactured items and methods, manufacturing locations, and manufacturing personnel. Changing needs in manufactured items and methods reflect urgent requirements to produce more advanced, more compact, high quality products associated with CASE*1, 5G, and other industry changes. Changing needs in manufacturing locations have been affected by trade friction between the United States and China. This trade frictions lead to accelerated local production and consumption, requiring standard product quality from production sites distributed around the world and faster rampup of production facilities. Changing needs in manufacturing personnel reflect rising personnel costs and an aging society. Every manufacturer struggles with a serious shortage of personnel on production floor and skilled technicians, in particular. These needs rapidly increase as time passes. Meanwhile, the pace of advancement is accelerating for AI, IoT, robotics, and other technological innovations and changes in seeds. These rapid technological changes will prove to be a tailwind in resolving the changing needs of production floors. *1 CASE: Connected (connected vehicles), Autonomous (autonomous vehicles), Shared (shared vehicles), Electric (electric vehicles) The Genesis of innovative-Automation To use innovation in solving production floor issues, in 2016, we came up with the IAB value creation concept. This conistss the [three “’’i”] of the innovations driving automation on the production floor. These concepts are integrated (evolution in control), intelligent (intelligence developed through ICT), and interactive (new harmonization between humans and machines). This is the intersection of changes in needs, changes in seeds, and OMRON’s unique approach. Evolution in control refers to achieving ultra-high-speed and ultra-high-precision machine control. This is a combination between the IAB lineup of the widest range of control devices in the industry and software. Intelligence 43 Vision Strategy Business Governance Financial Info Corporate Info developed through ICT refers to the incorporation of AI and IoT into all manufacturing control devices, driving machines themselves to learn and evolve. The ultimate goal is to create production lines that experience zero stoppages and create high-quality products with zero defects. A new harmonization between humans and machines means machines that autonomously move, working together with humans. The machine and the human each leverage their own strengths in cooperation, leading to a new reality for production floors. Intelligence Developed Through ICT Machines That Learn and Evolve Craftsmanship High-Speed, ntelligent High-Precision Fabrication, Innovative Machine Control ntegrated Zero Equipment Failures Predictive Maintenance innovative-Automation Sensory Inspection Integration of Workplace Replication of Human and Office Senses Integration of Equipment and Management Technologies Intelligent Cell-Line Collecting, Storing, and Analyzing Data Mechanized Cell-Line Mobile Robot Harmonization of Humans Conveyor-Less Production and Machines nteractive Practical Implementation of innovative-Automation at the AISIN? AW Smart Factory The Aisin AW Okazaki factory is the world’s leading Before After automotive parts manufacturer. This is an innovativeAutomation Smart factory developed in cooperation with OMRON. Here, production floor innovations have become a reality. These innovations include ceilingsuspended electronic control unit (ECU) assembly Fully automated robots suspended from the ceiling install parts in robots and mobile robots that transport advanced devices and move parts between processes, tasks which formerly required 10 workers. board inspection equipment and parts autonomously. For more about this topic. OR Read more for a detailed article on AISIN AW smart factory. 44 Business Industrial Automation Business (IAB) Evolution of innovative-Automation integrated (Evolution in Control) Increased Production of Many Innovative Control Applications Since the Birth of innovative-Automation OMRON is the industry leader, offering 200,000 control devices across a wide range of applications. This advanced combination of overwhelming product lineup and software has achieved new levels of smooth, high-precision, and high-speed control. Specific advancements include vibration control technologies that use software to control sway, slip, and spillage that occur when transporting products, as well as high-speed synchronization control to precisely align different parts moving at high speed. We make investments in innovative control applications to respond to the ever-increasing range of problems encountered on production floors. Solving Social Issues in the Automobile Industry Through innovative-Automation Ongoing advancements in self-driving require highly precise and efficient inspection of entire control boards, which serve as the brains of these vehicles. The inspection of electronic control boards, on which sophisticated electronic components are mounted, is the most important production process in ensuring safe, automated driving. The electronic control board is used in areas such as Automated X-Ray braking and engine control which impact human lives directly. Errors cannot be Inspection System tolerated. OMRON’s Automated X-Ray Inspection System has solved this issue. This imaging inspection equipment uses X-Ray technology to visually inspect items mounted on the board. A unique characteristic of our technology is speed and accuracy. This enables continuous, nonstop capture of 3D images with a dramatic 2.3-times increase in speed compared to traditional methods. Stereoscopic inspection image of electronic control board taken with automated X-Ray inspection system [Employee Comments] In 2007, we saw signs of a major transition in adopting tiny components used in consumer products for use in cars. OMRON has developed automatic inspection equipment incorporating 3D-CT technology *2 by using innovative-Automation control technology to provide a detection speed capable of handling mass production,. We will continue to provide high-quality inspection equipment, pursuing our mission to create vehicle safety and security. Planning: Inspection System Business Department, Product Manager, Yujin Fujita Our history of Automated X-Ray Inspection System development stems from repeated co-creation with customers, focused on creating something that will benefit customers. This philosophy gave birth to revolutionary Automated X-Ray Inspection System developed through design innovations that increase speed without compromising performance. The result is dramatic improvements to quality and maintainability. Development: Inspection System Business Department, Development Department, Makoto Shichiro We want to contribute to the safety and security of the world by promptly and reliably delivering world-leading Automated X-Ray Inspection System featuring optimal quality, cost, and delivery time. Reflecting this stance, we integrated production, development, and planning from the initial product planning stage. At the same time, we achieved a manufacturing system that can also respond to rapid increases in incoming orders. We are proud to be responsible for important inspection processes. We will push forward to solve more social issues and create value for our customers. Production Manager: Ayabe Factory, Shusuke Fujiwara *2 3D-CT technology: A technology that uses X-Rays to obtain continuous cross-sectional images of the interior of structures that are invisible to the human eye. 3D-CT technology processes these images via computer to generate 3D images. 3D-CT technology uses technology similar to that used in medical facility CT scanners. 45 Vision Strategy Business Governance Financial Info Corporate Info intelligent (Intelligence developed through ICT) OMRON’s Main Battleground is in Real-world Automation OMRON’s main area of focus is in manufacturing innovations that make use of practical automation. Connecting OMRON’s more than 200,000 different types of control devices to a network enables real-time collection of production line and device status. In April 2017, we introduced an industry first—a machine automation controller incorporating AI. In October 2018, we released the AI Predictive Maintenance Library for AI controllers. This technology creates learning devices that collect, analyze, and control vast amounts of workplace via an AI controller, resulting in zero-stop production lines that produce zero defects. We are working on further technical development using open innovation through a tie-up with AI venture company AISing Ltd. Launched in November 2018T this project is developing the world’s fastest embedded AI. interactive (New harmonization between humans and machines) Humans and Machines Complementing Each Other’s Strengths and Working in Harmony OMRON aims to create new relationships between humans and machines on the production floor. In these relationships, humans and machines complement each other’s strengths and work in harmony. Humans and machines, working together on the production floor as machines understand and complement human action and intention. This is the future of manufacturing. To this end, we acquired industrial robot company Adept Technology , in 2015. Today, we sell mobile robots worldwide, providing flexible, automated transport. In May 2018, we partnered with Techman Robot Inc., a Taiwanese collaborative robot manufacturer, aiming to advance cooperation between humans and robots on production floors. By adding an arm-equipped collaborative robot to our product lineup, we have accelerated toward the future of production floors in which humans and machines work in harmony. Fiscal 2018 Initiatives to Enhance the Three “i”s Taiwanese Collaborative Robot Manufacturer Partnership with Techman Robot Inc. (May 2018) Techman Robot Inc. is the world’s leading company in arm-equipped collaborative robots used together with humans on production floors. Technman Robot signed a strategic partnership with OMRON in the field of collaborative robots, which is experiencing rapid growth. Together, we work on the development of next-generation collaborative robots to bring innovation to production floors, where humans and machines work in harmony. Collaborative arm robots Embedded AI Development Venture Partnership with AISing Ltd. (November 2018) AISing Ltd. is the world’s leading AI venture company. AISing owns AI algorithms that enable high predictive accuracy and high-speed processing, using with even limited learning data. Through this partnership, we have developed AI engines for control devices. The goal of this project is to provide future production floors with smart production lines to prevent manufacturing product defects. This requires instantaneous collection of sensing data and Announcement of partnership with AISing feedback to machine controllers. (L) Fukui, General Manager of Technology Development Division (R) CEO Dezawa, Representative *Read more for a detailed article on Director of AISing Ltd. OMRON’s partnership with AISing Ltd. 46 Business Industrial Automation Business (IAB) Further Evolution of the i-BELT Subscription Service In 2017, OMRON launched i-BELT, a business model that offers innovative-Automation to customers. This is a subscription service in which OMRON engineers work together with customers at their production floors using data to provide service and maintenance, as well as to improve production lines. Working closely with customers on their production floors allows us to collect and analyze a range of data. This, in turn, allows us to identify issues and propose new solutions. Furthermore, the expertise in controls gathered from production floors leads to new businesses. By building closer, ongoing relationships with customers through i-BELT, we reproduce the craftsmanship Diagnostic Services at Customer Manufacturing Facilities required for tasks that include predictive maintenance for device abnormalities and the adjustment of cutting speed in fabrication equipment. These activities were once the sole domain of highly skilled workers. Further Expansion of Automation Centers We will bring more innovations to production floors as we expand innovative-Automation and leverage i-BELT to continue building relationships with customers. What makes this possible is our Automation Centers (ATC), situated around the world, and our service engineers who work in close cooperation with our customers. The ATC is home to sales engineers who consider the equipment actually used by customers on their production floors. The goal here is to verify and test solutions that solve customer manufacturing issues. As of fiscal 2018, OMRON operated 35 ATC facilities, up from 17 in fiscal 2017. Additionally, sales engineers experienced in manufacturing increased 20 percent compared to fiscal 2016. Today, over 1,000 sales engineers are co-creating with customers to solve problems on production floors worldwide. Sweden (Malmo) UK Russia (Milton, Keynes) (Moscow) Canada Germany Poland (Dich) Global (Toronto, Montreal) 35 (Stuttgart) Beijing Chicago New Hampshire Turkey Detroit (Istanbul) San Jose Spain Italy Shanghai (Milan) Cincinnati (Barcelona, Nashville Shenzhen locations Madrid) India (Mumbai) Mexico Thailand (Mexico) (Bangkok) Singapore Indonesia Brazil (Sao Paulo) (Jakarta) Sales Engineers Co-Create With Customers to Solve Production Floor Issues 47 Vision Strategy Business Governance Financial Info Corporate Info A New Harmonization Between Humans and Machines, Driving innovative-Automation into the Future Company founder Kazuma Tateishi proclaimed, “To the machine, the work of the machine; to humankind, the thrill of unfettered creativity.” “To the machine the work of the machine; to man the thrill of further creation,” OMRON strives to create a new relationship of harmony between humans and machines. In this world, machines do not take work away from humans. Instead, humans and machines work cooperatively. At present, we are developing a Mobile Manipulator (MoMa) that works together with humans when and where required. We plan to introduce this new technology in fiscal 2019. MoMa is an arm-equipped mobile work robot that moves about freely. On-board detection technology helps MoMA avoid bumping into people and obstacles. This robot recognizes objects as images, allowing automation not only in transportation, but also in item stacking and assembly tasks. We are quickly heading toward a dream world in which numerous robots work in harmony with human employees as co-workers on production floors. OMRON leverages innovative-Automation to create production floors around the world that enrich the lives of workers and consumers. The challenges to innovate on ever-changing production floors are never-ending. innovativeAutomation will continue to evolve into the future. The Mobile Manipulator Stacking Products Relay Socket Mobile Manipulator The Mobile Manipulator Inserts Relays into Sockets for Assembly 48 Business Supporting OMRON Electronic and Mechanical Development Device and Modules Corresponding SDGs Components Business (EMC) Vision Provide Leading-Edge Electronic and Mechanical Components Globally Through Advanced Manufacturing Capabilities Our Electronic and Mechanical Components Business leverages extensive success in core products (relays, switches, connectors, etc.) to offer a wide product lineup of devices and modules that meet diverse customer needs. Digital products have become an intimate part of our everyday lives, making society more convenient. These products include smartphones, home appliances (air-conditioners, refrigerators, and microwave ovens), and industrial equipment (from vehicles and machine tools to automotive fields). We provide advanced electronic and mechanical components which use cutting-edge technologies and manufacturing capabilities honed over many years. This support the society by connecting people and machines across a wide range of fields. Managing Executive Officer Company President, Electronic and Mechanical Components Company Shizuto Yukumoto The Electronic and Mechanical Components Business, Growing Together With OMRON The relay technologies became the basis to establish the Tateishi Electronics Company by our founder Kazuma Tateishi The relay technologies refined by our founder Kazuma Tateishi Inoue Electric Manufacturing Company became the basis upon which the Tateishi Electronics Company was later established. A relay is a part that receives an external electrical signal to turn an electrical circuit on and off. Relays are also used for switching. Relays that are incorporated in electronic devices receive an electrical signal, turning a switch on or off to transmit the signal to another device. For example, pressing a button on a remote sends a signal to a relay within the television, which turns the main power switch on. Relay has many types depends on the amount of electric current,and circuits, and application. This technology eventually led OMRON to the development of the world’s first contactless switch, the driver behind our rapid advancements in this age of machine automation. In these days, our relay technologies are used in high-capacity DC relays for hybrid and electric vehicles and supporting the high demand. In the same way, the range of technologies underpinning the Electronic and Mechanical Components Business have developed in step with changes in society and are used for many familiar products in our daily life. For example, the face detection technology, (the OKAO Vision) is used in digital cameras and other devices to detect human faces automatically. Ultra-compact, advanced MEMS microphone chips are used in compact microphones for mobile devices. Sensor technologies were initially utilized in automated production floors, and now those have been adapted to detect human movements. These detectors provide notice of guest arrivals and are used as environmental sensors in agricultural applications. In fact, sensors are useful in various scenes as part of the social infrastructure. Factory automation Mobility Electric appliance and communication Amusement equipment HEMS Healthcare Environment (Home Energy and energy Management System) Building automation Electronic Components That Support Society 49 Vision Strategy Business Governance Financial Info Corporate Info The Electronic and Mechanical Components Business in the Coming Smart Society Our strength lies in our ability to develop products and in our reliable production capabilities. This has been developed since our very founding and to meet the changing needs of customer requirements for advanced, compact, and quickly delivered electronic and mechanical components. As we look ahead to the society of the future and a rising number of smarter products, OMRON will use our strengths to provide a broad range of electronic components that meet customer needs. An example of this is mouse and mechanical keyboard switches used in the rapidly growing esports market, which has competitive population over 100 million people. In esports, players are required to perform the quick and delicate movements. Accordingly, these players are very particular about the touch and click feeling of mouse and mechanical keyboard switches. Young People Immersed in esports OMRON measurestouch and click feeling of switches that players feel comfortable. Then we visualize and quantify that data to create switches customized to individual needs. This is possible precisely because OMRON has been working closely with customers for long years i which led to perfecting our technologies. Since our establishment, our electronic and mechanical components technologies have been developing throughout history These technologies remain as a foundation supporting a variety of OMRON businesses Well-Regarded esports Mouse and Keyboard Switches in these days Robust Restructuring for the New Step of Growth The smarter home appliances and factory automation will accelerate even more. This trend is supported by advanced and high quality electronic and mechanical components. To provide a stable supply of components, OMRON is engaged in structural reform of our production, focusing on optimizing production centers and increasing production capacity. We will continue to provide advanced electronic and mechanical components across the globe to support world-wide development in society. Restructuring Production: Relocation and Major Expansion of Our Shenzhen Factory Electronic components are essential in creating innovation in new markets such as smart communities. To meet the various needs of our customers and provide large quantities of high-quality electronic components at low cost, we have carried out major reforms to the structure of our production system. Details of this plan include relocating and expanding 36 production lines for products such as relays, switches, and connectors. At full capacity, these lines can produce products worth an additional ¥10 billion in sales. This lage relocation and expansion project required the use of 370 trucks. Reconfiguring our quality systems and facilities, as well as major changes in how we source and train OMRON ELECTRONIC COMPONENTS industrial engineer , has resulted in our quality control receiving high praise from (SHENZHEN) LTD. customers, leading to increased orders. Furthermore, our improved delivery times have Dong-Hua Yuan contributed to increased value for customers. 50 Business Automotive Electronic Domain Mobility Corresponding SDGs Components Business (AEC) Vision Contributing to a Seamless Relationship Between People and Automobiles in the Future Car Society The Automotive Electronic Components Business (AEC) provides products aimed toward a safe, secure, and comfortable car society. The mission of the AEC is to contribute to a seamless relationship between people and automobiles through our invehicle products. We provide car electronics essential for advanced automotive functionality. Looking to the car society of the future, the AEC continues to develop manufacturing capabilities that will let us play a role in a more safe, secure, comfortable, and clean mobile society for people around the world. Managing Executive Officer OMRON Automotive Electronics Co. Ltd. President and CEO Katsuhiro Wada Social Issues to be Solved by the Automotive Electronic Components Business Automobiles have spread throughout the world as a convenient form of transportation. This convenience, however, comes at a cost. One is a rising number of deaths due to traffic accidents. Here, OMRON and others are developing technologies related to safe driving assistance. Another issue is the increasing number of deaths in emerging economies attributable to respiratory diseases resulting from automotive emissions. CASE: Connected, Autonomous, Shared/Service, Electric is a trend leading to the next-generation mobility society. The development of CASE offers new value in terms of product configuration, value chain, and the ideal form of business model. At the same time, we are seeing this industry evolve, including accelerated collaboration, selection and concentration, forays into different industries, and changing business formats. C A S E Connected Autonomous Shared/Service Electric 51 Vision Strategy Business Governance Financial Info Corporate Info An Evolution in Manufacturing for Self-Driving and Automotive Electrification To raise our contribution to safety, security, and environmental friendliness, we focus on products vital to connected and electric-based driving based on the four industry changes called for under CASE (Connected, Autonomous, Shared/Service, Electric). We have two particular strengths here: Active safety for automated driving and power supply control for electrification. We deploy advanced forward-recognition technologies in the field of advanced driving support and other areas of active safety to help make automated driving a reality. We incorporate on-board driver protection technologies that determine whether a driver is concentrating on driving, and we are developing products and services for advanced sensing inside and outside the vehicle. In this way, we create new value in driving support and safety. Our power supply control products use DC/DC voltage converters capable of high-efficiency power conversion used in electric vehicles. This is one way in which we meet customer requirements for the new mobility society. Our ultra-high-efficiency power units increase the performance of electric vehicles and environmentally friendly devices to convert DC voltage efficiently. An Innovative Production Model Line for Eco-Friendly DC/DC Converters DC/DC converters are an essential component for electric vehicles. Compared to other products manufactured at OAE( Omron Automotive Electronics), DC/DC converters are relatively large and heavy with a large number of components. These products are also very complex to assemble. Production line design was extremely challenging given the customer requirements for stable high quality. To overcome these challenges, we chose to pursue a new production model line concept rather than attempt full automation. This concept incorporated an optimal relationship between human and machine, a production line producing only quality products, and non-stop production. Our ongoing efforts to meet these challenges has led to co-creation in our production technologies, leading to innovative production model lines and greater appreciation by our customers. Nothing great is ever achieved without taking on challenges. We had the courage to take the first step and to keep believing in our job, all the while maintaining a steady focus on Production Control Office the OMRON Principles and the needs of society. Our insistence on involving other Production Technology Division parties was on key leading to the success of this large, global-scale project. Kazuya Tanaka Mobility 3.0 is an Engine Driving the Future Aiming for a zero-accident, clean car society, OMRON Safer, More Secure, More Comfortable, and Cleaner Mobility will continue to pursue evolution in electronics and technologies closely linked with vehicles. OMRON continues to evolve our Sensing & Control Zero technologies and manufacturing capabilities. These Accidents technologies and capabilities include sensors for advanced driving support and self-driving control, used Reduced to prevent automobile accidents, as well as motor and Congestion voltage control components for improved fuel Mobility Reduced efficiency. We are taking on the challenge to create a Society Environmental mobility society that is safe, secure, comfortable, and Impact environmentally friendly. Stress-Free (no accidents, no congestion) Urban Mobility Balancing the Development of the Car Society With the Global Environment OMRON’s Goals for Mobility Society 52 Business Mobility Corresponding Domain Social Systems, Solutions Energy SDGs Management and Service Business (SSB) Vision Creating a Society in Which the People of the World Live in Safety, Security, and Comfort ~Achieving a Smart Society~ The Social Systems, Solutions and Service Business (SSB) provides a range of systems that underpin the infrastructure of society. These systems include railway station systems (automated ticket gates, ticket vending machines, etc.), traffic and road management systems, accounting systems, IoT solutions (power and data protection, etc.), and energy management. This segment provides software-based solutions built on core technologies used by railroad, road operations, and other infrastructure companies. The SSB also constructs solutions through comprehensive maintenance services. Together with our customers, we contribute to building a better society. We confront the social issue of worsening labor shortages via social automation that utilizes IoT, AI, and other advanced technologies combined with our proprietary service and data platforms. Our aim is to create a smart society in which anyone can live in safety, security, and comfort. Managing Executive Officer OMRON Social Solutions Co., Ltd. President and CEO Toshio Hosoi Issues Facing Japan’s Social Systems Japan’s declining labor base has triggered a variety of inconveniences in Japanese society. These inconveniences have become evident and more serious, including declines in transportation services, difficulties in maintaining the functions of smaller cities, and deteriorating social infrastructure. At the same time, social systems face a wider range of demands, including higher inbound tourism and heightened safety and security requirements related to disaster prevention and mitigation, etc. Social Systems, Solutions and Service Business Initiatives The SSB has identified four new business domains to confront social issues that will become all-the-more serious in the future. In addition to the fields of transport (rail, police) and energy, we are expanding into other fields of lifestyle services, aiming to create safe, secure, and comfortable lives for all. We are also striving to build autonomous regional communities as part of our overall efforts to solve social problems. The strengths of this business lie in consulting (industry knowledge), equipment and software development, design, and manufacturing, as well as maintenance and operation services. In other words, the SSB provides one-stop solutions for customers throughout Japan.* *A business methodology that categorizes operations flow by function, aiming to improve efficiency and competitiveness Social Systems, Solutions and Service Business: Four business Domains Transport (rail, police) Energy Lifestyle Services Community Value Chain Supporting Our Businesses Energy management Automated ticket gates, ticket vending machines Uninterruptible Standard services power supply nationwide Traffic and road equipment management systems (UPS) Accounting systems Contact center Equipment and Software Equipment and Maintenance and Consulting Construction Development Design Systems Operations Social Systems, Solutions and Service Business Domains 53 Vision Strategy Business Governance Financial Info Corporate Info New Social Systems, Solutions and Service Business Initiatives Looking Ahead to 2030 The Social Systems, Solutions and Service Business (SSB) is active in the four domains of transportation, energy, lifestyle services, and community. In the community domain, the SSB uses a storehouse of expertise to work with local governments, such as Maizuru City (Kyoto Prefecture), to launch initiatives for creating a smart society looking ahead to the year 2030. The genesis of this project was a suggestion from OMRON SINICX Corporation, an OMRON company facilitating open innovation. Case Study: Initiatives with Maizuru City Regional cities in Japan are seeing continuing declines in population. This means a shrinking revenue base for local governments, which makes providing satisfactory services to residents more difficult. To solve this problem requires regional cities become autonomous. By “autonomous,” we mean cities that make the most of their resources for their own betterment, that look for ways in which residents can enjoy physical and mental health, that offer help when needed, and that encourage residents achieve their own desires. Our efforts in Maizuru City (Kyoto Prefecture) are leading toward a cooperative, fulfilled society that utilizes IT to help each other. We believe that projects forming connections between people, between people and communities, and between communities and communities create closer relationships in which people look out for one another. In this case, we are developing a matching system in which those requiring help with various aspects of daily life can connect to those willing to provide help. The key to success for this type of matching system is to tailor to the needs of the local community and environment, designing in trustworthiness guarantees and incentives. This is in contrast to general matching systems used in major metropolitan cities and overseas. The team formed by Maizuru and OMRON is current conducting local surveys NEXT Business and validation tests for the system. Many challenges exist in creating a new type of Headquarters Project cooperative story that has no monetary objective. We believe that solving these Leader problems one-by-one will help Japan’s regional cities achieve sustainable growth. Miki Yokota The Social Systems, Solutions and Service Business Vision of Japanese Local Government in 2030 Mutual Help Platform A Society of Mutual Help A Fully Cashless Through Matching Society Cooperation Cashless An Autonomous Renewable Energy Society Monitoring Increasing Self-Sufficient Protecting Cities Using Renewable Energy Use Big Data and AI Youth Challenge Raising Youth Who Possess IT skills 54 Business Healthcare Business Domain Healthcare Corresponding SDGs (HCB) Vision All for Healthcare, To Help Realize Healthy and Comfortable Lives for People Around the World Healthcare Business provides medical equipment and services that contribute to the healthy and confortable lige of everyone around the world. Over 40 years in the blood pressure monitor business, we have earned trust in our highly accurate devices used in clinical practice and certifications that guarantee levels of quality and safety worldwide. These are the greatest strengths of our business. We intend to move forward actively in developing innovative devices and promoting digital health across three main areas of focus: cardiovascular, respiratory and pain management business. By providing personalized medical devices and services tailored to individuals, we will confront the challenges in preventing theprogression of diseases and in increasing healthy life expectancies. Managing Executive Officer OMRON HEALTHCARE Co., Ltd. President and CEO Isao Ogino Social Issues Confronting the Healthcare Market The growing middle class population in emerging economies are a cause of rising lifestyle diseases in these countries. Developed countries are experiencing a growing gap between average life expectancies and healthy life expectancies, stemming from the super-aging societies. And the increase of medical costs has been a major social issue globally. Our three focus domains, which target numerous patients and pre-symptomatic individuals, are particularly positioned to meet these demands. The first of these domains is cardiovascular. This includes strokes and cardiac infarctions, which are caused by blood pressure attributable to changes in dietary and other lifestyle habits. 17.5 million people have been suffering from these diseases, and it costs approximately ¥120 trillion to treat medically. The second domain is respiratory diseases, which are increasing worldwide due to air pollution and other factors. Respiratory disease is believed to affect 440 million people worldwide. The third domain is pain management. This includes lower-back and joint pain, which can interfere with daily life. Approximately 73 million people in Japan and the United States suffer from chronic pain. Many rely on medications to alleviate their conditions. Cardiovascular diseases Respiratory diseases Pain management Patients with brain/ Global patients suffering from Patients suffering from chronic cardiovascular events*1 respiratory diseases*2 pain in Japan and the U.S.*3 17.5 million 440 million 73 million Medical costs related to Medical costs related to respiratory Market for analgesics in Japan cardiovasular diseases*4 diseases in Japan and the U.S.*5 and the U.S.*6 ¥120 trillion ¥19 trillion ¥2.4 trillion *1 WHO report *2 International Respiratory Societies report *3 Pain in Japan (Japan), National Health Interview (U.S.) *4 Estimate based on World Bank and OECD data *5 Estimate based on data published by the Ministry of Health and Welfare, the European Respiratory Society, and a survey conducted by Creative Biotech Inc *6 Global Analgesic Market Survey 2013 55 Vision Strategy Business Governance Financial Info Corporate Info Achieving Zero Events on Cerebrovascular and Cardiovasucular Going for Zero refers to preventing the onset of serious of disorders (events) such as strokes and myocardial infarctions that are caused by high blood pressure. New sensing devices measure vital data both during daytime activities and at night. This has been difficult to achieve in the past. By analyzing this newly accumulated data, we can provide more effective high blood pressure diagnosis and treatment services, all with the aim of achieving Going for Zero. Unveiling innovative devices The HeartGuide™ is the world’s first wearable blood pressure monitor in a unique compact wristwatch configuration. The HeartGuide™, which has received medical device certification, has been released for sale in the United States. Wearable blood pressure monitors track fluctuations in blood pressure throughout the day with medical-grade accuracy, a task difficult to achieve in the past. Wearable blood pressure monitor released in December 2018 HeartGuide™ Achieving Zero Events requires the stress-free measurement of blood pressure during everyday living. OMRON blood pressure monitors have always been high-quality devices trusted by physicians. However, the bulky design remained an impediment to everyday carry. The advent of our compact wearable HeartGuide™ lets users participate easily in their own health care by tracking their own health status at any time. Reducing the size of the device while still meeting standards for medical devices was no mean feat. The product required significant efforts in development. Given the importance of HeartGuide™ success in achieving Zero Events, OMRON staff worldwide united behind the product to ensure its status as a global top brand. HeartGuide™ was first unveiled in North America at the January 2019 CES event, the world’s largest consumer electronics show. Our device was featured in articles and reports by many media outlets. Sensing the excitement behind HeartGuide™, our staff around the world will use these expectations as a source Omron Healthcare, Inc. (USA) of pride and confidence to accelerate ongoing development. Executive Director Product Strategy and Technology Jeff Ray Promoting Going for Zero through the integration Providing Diagnostics and of devices, evidence, and services Innovative Devices Medical Support OMRON blood pressure monitors are used in many Services major clinical studies. The medical evidence obtained in these studies enables the creation of diagnostics and B  ehavioral Patients modification Doctor medical support services in connection with Blood Pressure Activity Sleep support hypotensive evidence stemming from behavioral ECG P ersonalized modification support programs and medication medical care optimization support programs. We intend to provide Data Collection and Analysis these services, including telemedicine and corporate wellness services, tailored to cultures, lifestyles, and medicine and insurance systems for each country to achieve Going for Zero. Personalized medical care to achieve Going for Zero 56 Business Healthcare Business (HCB) Aiming Asthma Attack Zero Families who have a child with asthma are all too familiar with the daily worry of asthma attacks and when to administer asthma medicine. The OMRON respiratory business strives for ease of use and easy care for nebulizers, which are used by patients to inhale asthma medication. We are developing new sensors and services that detect and analyze the sound of wheeze which typically accompanies with an asthma attack. We intend to use this technology in devices for early detection of the symptoms of asthma attack. Through these initiatives, we contribute to the prevention and mitigation of asthma attacks, which can be serious in small children. Unveiling Devices to Reduce Knee and Lower-back Pain, Extending Healthy Life Expectancies Japan is experiencing a widening gap between average life and healthy life expectancies. This gap, quickly becoming a social issue, is approximately nine years for men, and 12 years for women. The main barriers to healthy living (cause of nursing care) are motility disorders such as joint and back pain. The pain management business has unveiled a number of new devices in this field. These new products include Knee TENS that applies electrical stimulation below the knee to alleviate knee pain. This device is used for walking support by people who started feeling knee pain. We also offer Wireless TENS to aid recovery from the so-called national disease of back pain. Athletes also use this product for muscle pain relief. By relieving the pain and physical fatigue that hinder people in their daily lives, we can maintain and improve quality of life, and bring about a society in which people enjoy active, healthy lives, regardless of age.  ap Between Average and G M  ain Causes Knee Pain of Lower-back Pain, Fatigue Healthy Life Expectancies Requiring Nursing senior Widespread in Recovery for Care generation Japan Athletes Average Life Damage to Expectancy 80.21 Period of Restricted musculoskeletal Healthy Life Expectancy Lifestyles Stemming Other system Male 71.19 9.02 years From Health Issues Average Life 25.2 % 22.3% Expectancy 86.61 Cerebral and Healthy Life Expectancy cardiovascular Female 74.21 12.40 years Age-related diseases 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 weakening 13.3% 21.2% (Year) HV-F710 HV-F602T HV-F601T Source: Average life expectancy, Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare 2013 Abridged Dementia Life Table Knee TENS Released in December 2018 Wireless TENS Released in November 2018 Wireless TENS Released in November 2018 Life expectancies extracted from Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare 2013 Abridged Life Table, 2013 Demographics Statistics, 2013 National Livelihood Survey; and Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications 2013 Estimated Population 18.0% To prevent and relieve knee pain, the muscles that support the knee must remain strong. Walking is a very important preventive measure. However, the act of walking for people suffering from knee pain can be a challenge, both physically and mentally. Unable to put up with this pain, people often stop walking, which leads to a negative cycle of decreased muscle strength and even further aggravation in muscle pain. Knee TENS supports the knee during walking, while providing electrical stimulation to relieve knee pain. This device makes walking easier, helping strengthen the muscles and creating a Pain Management Product Department positive cycle which prevents and mitigates knee pain. Yoshito Asai We want to improve the quality of life for as many people who suffer from knee pain as possible, stopping the negative circle of locomotive syndrome, the resulting difficulty in walking, and the need for nursing care. 57 Vision Strategy Business Governance Financial Info Corporate Info Further Advances in Our Matsusaka Factory, Global Base of OMRON Manufacturing Europe Production China Production Center Center Italy Dalian Japan Production Center Matsusaka Factory Asia-Pacific Production Center Vietnam Central-South America Production Center Brazil In March 2020, our Matsusaka Factory will be as OMRON’s global base for manufacturing capabilities. The factory will play a bigger role as our mother factory supporting global production, serving as a production center for cutting-edge manufacturing technologies to be deployed worldwide, focusing on low-cost, flexible automation. Advanced automation will result in a three-fold production gain, as well as optimized production that can respond flexibly to diversifying products and customer demands. Further, we intend to deploy leading-edge production lines built in Japan to production centers worldwide. OMRON is developing high-quality automation, precision processing technologies, and improved quality control in pursuit of the providing high-quality products faster and in a more stable manner. Towards the Future of Personalized Medical Care The OMRON Healthcare Business has developed innovative devices, accumulated and analyzed data in collaboration with medical professionals, provided highly reliable services Lifestyle Information stemming from these collaborations, and produced advanced manufacturing technologies and modularization. These activities have created business models to promote healthcare. We will continue to focus our effort on cardiovascular, respiratory, and pain management fields, Optimized Healthcare accelerating our pace as we go. Leveraging overwhelming and Improved global market share, we will combine and analyze Medication Regimens Through information on vital signs, treatment, and lifestyles to create Personalized Medical Care diagnosis and treatment support services tailored to the Vital Sign Medical individual. Data information 58 Business Energy Management Domain Energy Management Corresponding SDGs Businesses Vision Using Energy Conversion and Control Technologies to Popularize the Use of Renewable Energy and Contribute to a Sustainable Society Energy Management Business is working to spread the use of renewable energy to curb CO2 emissions. Our aim is to create a society in which all people live in comfort. We contribute to energy efficiency through storage control technologies that support energy management, as well as through “the visualization of energy use“ and other advanced initiatives. Further, We are involved in quality and functional improvements in all processes, from planning through to maintenance management. We are striving to be No.1 business partner in the field of environmental business. By leveraging our unique value chain to support the entire energy life cycle—from “efficient energy creation “to “effective energy storage” to “wise energy use”—we contribute to the creation of a sustainable society. Executive Officer Senior General Manager, Energy Management Business HQ Taisuke Tateishi Issues Confronting the Energy Management Market Global climate change resulting from rising CO2 Energy Source Structure Targets for Japan emissions, the depletion of fossil fuels, frequent natural disasters, and soaring fuel Capacity (%) costs, demonstrate the need for more use of Doubling of Solar clean energy in society. In corporate activities, Solar 3.3% Solar: we see a movement to rethink energy usage Approx. 7.0% systems, including the effective use of Renewable Energy Renewable renewable energy. Additionally, there is an 15% Energy: urgent need to adapt to rapid changes in environmental laws and regulations and BCP*1. 22-24% In response, we see global measures to reduce Nuclear: greenhouse gas emissions in line with Approx. 22-20% COP21*2. Japan has set a goal to increase the ratio of renewable energy used from 15 Thermal: Approx. 56% percent in 2015, to between 22 and 24 percent by fiscal 2030. Japan also expects to double 2015 2030 (Fiscal Year) the ratio of solar power, from 3.3 percent to 7.0 percent. (Source:) Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, isep More effect use and delivery of optimal control for power conditioners in solar power and *1 BCP (Business Continuity Planning): A plan to determine activities to be performed at normal times as well as methods and procedures to ensure energy storage systems will help spread business continuation during emergencies, while minimizing the impact on renewable energy. This, in turn, will lead to business assets and allowing for the continuation or rapid recovery of the core business in the event that a company is confronted with an emergency such as a reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, which natural disaster, major fire, or terrorist attack. is required to bring about a sustainable society. *2 COP21 (Conference of Parties to the Framework Convention on Climate Change): A conference held in Paris in 2015 to discuss measures to respond to global warming from 2020 onwards, and to determine a new international framework to replace the Kyoto Protocol. 59 Vision Strategy Business Governance Financial Info Corporate Info A Total Energy Management Solutions Provider The volume of power generated by renewable energy fluctuates depending on the weather. Stable electricity levels are necessary if we are Energy Providers to use energy from renewable sources. Given Partnership Partnership our energy conversion and control technologies, Partnership OMRON focuses on renewable energy Resource generation and the utilization of information Aggregators related to energy usage. We are working on the Control of Bundled challenge of achieving stable electricity via Equipment control through bundled batteries. We aim to (Electric Power) Company Company Remotely A B stabilize electricity to maximize the use of renewable energy, as well as to create a society rich energy. Offices, Stores, Factories, Apartment Buildings, Houses, Housing Complexes, Outdoor Equipment Consumers The Role of Resource Aggregators in Linking Energy Companies and Consumers Recently, I have come across the phrases population decline and aging society with much more frequency. Each time I return to my hometown, I see more small shops shutting down and fewer buses running. Renewable energy that generates stable income from natural energy sources can be a big step toward solving these social issues. Our team thought through every scenario considering customer value and business models to encourage the adoption of photovoltaics and storage batteries. Ultimately, we came up with a model (service) that provides value for everyone. At present, we are using good customer feedback as our motivation to carry out business Environmental Solutions Business HQ reform in selling services that encompass entire organizations. Marketing Division Yoshinori Kawai Energy Usage With No Waste ~Building Storage Solutions~ The end of fixed-priced purchasing (FIT) and measures to counter power due to natural disasters are just two elements that have accelerated the need for more energy that combines solar power generation with storage batteries. To this end, OMRON is developing energy control technologies that incorporate storage batteries consisting of different current and voltage characteristics. We are also participating in verification tests for electricity charge-discharge controls to increase electricity usage efficiency in buildings, as well as tests for electricity stabilization within defined areas. OMRON will continue to hone our proprietary Sensing demand and solar power status, balancing electricity supply through storage battery control technologies to expand storage battery solutions. Spreading Renewable Energy OMRON has taken up the challenge to achieve better energy management by linking renewable energy and storage batteries. This involves efficient energy creation, effective energy storage, and wise energy use, focused on energy conversion and control technologies. In the future, we intend to expend the scope of energy control to V2X, which takes advantage of electric vehicles. We also intend to achieve further improvements in building and structure energy efficiency. By bundling and controlling existing energy resources and stabilizing electrical power within defined areas, we can contribute to the further spread of renewable energy and to the creation of a sustainable society that has no impact on the environment. 60 Business Human Resources Management Human Resources Management Corresponding SDGs Accelerating the Growth of Our People and Our Organization, the Drivers of Innovative Creation Employees are the most critical element to perform management based on the OMRON Principles. As employees supporting the growth of OMRON, we enjoy our work and commit to building an attractive company that accepts the challenge of creating social needs that solve social issues. The human resources strategy goal under VG2.0 is to create a strong company that fosters our people, provides an enjoyable work environment, and encourages high performance. By accelerating the growth of our people and our organization, drivers of innovation at OMRON, we raise our ability to create social needs. We have defined three key global initiatives to accomplish this goal: Executive Officer, Key Global Initiatives General Manager, Global Human Resource Strategy Department, Foster leaders who will drive management and business Hire, train, and make effective use of a diverse employee base Virendra Shelar Encourage self-motivated employees These key global initiatives are tied closely to the OMRON Principles. In particular, we would like to foster leaders who drive management and business. These are people who look at society from a future-oriented perspective, who always think and act in pursuit of the true issues, who declare and pursue high goals, and who act with integrity at all times, no matter what the business environment. These are all examples of living values that reflect the OMRON Principles. OMRON engages in three unique processes to place our human resources strategy in position to raise the ability of all employees to practice the OMRON Principles. These processes strengthen the OMRON Principles by creating understanding and general awareness, encouraging empathy and resonance, and incorporating monitoring and improvement activities. The first process is to create an understanding and general awareness of the OMRON Principles internally. Here, management engages directly with employees through dialogues to further employee understanding and inspire employees to demonstrate leadership in practicing the OMRON Principles. The second process is to share examples of employees putting the OMRON Principles into action to encourage empathy and resonance. A major part of this process is the OMRON Global Awards (TOGA), which we have held every year since fiscal 2012. We recognize the outstanding efforts of employees that lead directly to solving social issues, which inspires others to see ways to practice the OMRON Principles in their own sphere. The third process is VOICE*, an engagement survey to monitor issues identified directly Understand, make through employee input, which we then use VOICE generally aware to improve management issues. Through these processes, we raise the Management ability of employees to put the OMRON Messages, Principles into practice, leveraging and Dialogues by accelerating Diversity & Inclusion as the Monitor, Chairman and CEO source of Innovation, enjoying our work Improve Practicing the while striving to build an attractive company OMRON Principles that creates social needs. *VOICE: Workplace VG OMRON Interactive Communication with Employees Dialogue, TOGA Empathy, resonance 61 Vision Strategy Business Governance Financial Info Corporate Info Linking Direct Input by Employees to Solving Social Issues OMRON implemented the VOICE engagement survey in 2016 for management to listen directly to feedback from our global workforce. This is an initiative for OMRON management to ensure sustainable growth, measuring the attractiveness of OMRON as a workplace, understanding and identifying management issues, and taking action to solve those issues. Based on VOICE results, management engages in discussions and continues to conduct reforms to make OMRON a more attractive company in which to work. Based on results from the previous year, OMRON adopted and further strengthened our global communications infrastructure during fiscal 2018. We also revised IT systems and engaged in other operations process innovations during the year. In response to the expectations of our highly motivated employees in Japan who are ready for new challenges, we worked to create an environment and mechanisms to provide for a diverse range of opportunities. As one example, we introduced a system for recruiting employees to existing openings in other departments. We also created an application system, providing employees with opportunities to advertise their talents and challenge themselves at new jobs. In addition to collecting and scoring data, OMRON solicits free-form comments from employees directly. Based on these comments, management identifies true needs and formulates next steps. OMRON will continue to use VOICE results as a basis to further improve management decision-making speed, to strengthen our communication as an organization, and to identify other important issues that spur management discussions and reforms. Fiscal 2018 VOICE Results (Summary) Willis Towers Watson Evaluation of Affirmative Responses: Healthy (70-80%), Requires Support/Progress (50-70%), Requires Improvement (less than 50%) Acceptance, Empathy With the OMRON Practice of Response Rate Principles and Integrity, Medium-Term Ethics 84% 75% 77% Management Plan The Contributions of Each Individual Create an Ideal Workplace ~Aiming for Effective, Open Communications~ Statistics from OMRON’s fiscal 2017 VOICE results for diversity and mutual respect in the Asia Pacific region indicated that employees want more effective, open communications. The most common issue identified is that the efforts of management in the spirit of the OMRON Principles to incorporate diverse employee views and opinions is not being communicated to employees sufficiently. With employees working in nine countries throughout the Asia Pacific region, we came to believe that unconscious attitudes and behavior particular to each cultural background could negatively impact employee motivation and the workplace environment. Therefore, OMRON implemented a training program emphasizing diversity OMRON MANAGEMENT CENTER OF ASIA PACIFIC and acceptance of all employees. We held this training twice in Singapore during fiscal 2018, attended by 43 senior managers. The training defined the Newton Giraud concepts of workplace diversity, unconscious attitudes and behaviors, and micro behaviors (split-second behaviors demonstrating a person’s emotions). Training delved deeper into examples of these behaviors, helping attendees reflect on their own stereotypes and unconscious attitudes. Finally, attendees discussed how these stereotypes and attitudes could hinder respect for diversity in the workplace and have a negative impact on business. The scope of these training activities has been expanded to include employees. Here, participants are learning how to build workplace environments that are accepting of diversity. In fiscal 2019, we will accelerate Diversity & Inclusion through activities over wide OMRON. 62 Business Human Resources Management The OMRON Global Awards (TOGA) The circle of resonance that originates from TOGA now involves outside OMRON as well, and will certainly spur new “innovation driven by social needs.” In this article, we highlight the TOGA story that began in 2012 and several presentations from the 2018 edition of TOGA. TOGA Begins as the Passion of One Employee The inspiration for TOGA began in the vision of Irawan Santoso, president of PT.OMRON MANUFACTURING OF INDONESIA (OMI), as a means to practice the OMRON Principles in our Indonesian production centers. Santoso’s aspiration for the OMRON Principles ranged far beyond OMRON’s manufacturing plants to include nearby factories and the Indonesian government in a program to employ disabled individuals. At the 2012 event to celebrate OMRON’s founding, Santoso was recognized with the Special Challenge Award, citing his outstanding example of practicing the OMRON Principles. Said OMRON CEO Yoshihito Yamada, “I believe there are many more examples out there of employees putting the OMRON Principles into practice. We would like to uncover these current and future examples, sharing, supporting, and recognizing the efforts of OMRON employees.” From this idea, TOGA was born. Irawan Santoso Shakes Hands With CEO Yoshihito Yamada at the Beginning of the TOGA Global Meet (May 2019) After being named president of OMI in 2007, I had the opportunity to visit OMRON TAIYO Co., Ltd. (Oita Prefecture, Japan), the world’s first factory designed for the disabled. There, I saw disabled individuals working enthusiastically, maximizing their talents and expressing their individuality. These employees leveraged their respective strengths, complementing and compensating in areas where others may be weaker. Seeing the situation at OMRON TAIYO, I felt a strong desire to create the same type of workplace in Indonesia where all people could shine. After returning to Indonesia, we went about creating a rewarding workplace for both able-bodies and disabled individuals, going beyond our existing efforts already in place. After an extended period of effort, we created a program in 2010 to train and hire disabled persons. OMI President As a result, we doubled the hiring rate of the previous year, recruiting 30 Irawan Santoso individuals. I will continue to create rewarding environments for all people throughout the world. 63 Vision Strategy Business Governance Financial Info Corporate Info Solving Social Issues Through Our Businesses IoT-Based Waste Treatment Contributes to a Change in Environmental Awareness Insufficient landfill for waste and environmental pollution arising from toxic substances in landfills are a serious issue in Australia. In response, the Australian central government set a goal to significantly reduce landfill waste by the year 2030. Wanting to help solve this social issue that will impact not only our own generation, but also that of our children, we included engineers from Singapore and Japan to develop a smart dumpster for commercial use. This smart dumpster uses a combination of IoT and Big Data technologies. Commercial-use smart dumpsters are large receptacles for collecting trash produced by businesses at shopping centers and other locations. These dumpsters consist of two separate sections, one for general waste that goes to landfills and one for recycling. To raise awareness of the environment Australian Subsidiary of the OMRON among businesses, general waste is assessed a fee based on volume, while Industrial Automation Business trash for recycling is free. These dumpsters offer benefits to collection OMRON ELECTRONICS PTY. LTD. companies as well. Dumpsters are outfitted with mechanisms to provide Henry Zhou (right), information about current status and collection timing via the internet. This Milorad Srdic (left) system means more efficient collection truck operations, less road damage due to over-heavy collection trucks, and other optimized overall operating costs. To date, more than 200 smart dumpsters have been installed, with more installations every day. While this project was effort by the Industrial Automation Business to expand our range of businesses, we feel a sense of pride in contributing to the central government’s goal of reducing landfill waste and in contributing to the creation of a more sustainable society. We will continue this initiative to provide a better society for our children. Contributing to Healthy and Comfortable Lives A Significant Reduction in Parts Supply Lead Time The Chinese market is experiencing rising demand for home-use medical equipment, as well as an explosion in the popularity of online shopping. The pressing need in response to these environmental changes is a platform for customers to purchase what they want, any time they want. The key word here is speed. As a manufacturer of OMRON home-use medical equipment, we at OMRON DALIAN decided that if we could increase production speed, we could deliver needed OMRON home-use medical equipment to all people when required. To achieve this vision, we set a goal to reduce lead time for parts supply to one-tenth of the current time required. Some voiced doubts at first, but people began to believe in my vision as Team OMRON came together to pursue this goal. We conducted a complete review of our parts suppliers and delivery routes, conducting simulation upon simulation. In the Chinese Production Center for the end, we consolidated parts to a single storage warehouse. We also revised OMRON Healthcare Business how we opened parts packaging and packaging materials, continuing to try OMRON DALIAN CO., LTD. ideas never attempted before. Over three years since 2016, we finally Li-Hua Tang reduced parts supply lead time to one-tenth of our original time. This initiative also resulted in lower inventory levels and logistics costs. Reduced delivery frequency also means reduced CO2 emissions. These benefits have been a result of practicing the OMRON Principles. OMRON DALIAN will continue striving for all people to have ready access to the health equipment they want, contributing to healthy and comfortable lives. 64 Business Human Resources Management Highlights of the TOGA Program TOGA encourages employees to set their own goals to help them 1 experience the connection between their work and the OMRON Plant Principles. The aim of this initiative is to foster a culture of ongoing the Flag aspirations to put the OMRON Principles into practice. We share and publicly praise OMRON Principles practiced in everyday work and workplaces, expanding the circle of empathy and resonance in practicing the OMRON Principles. The TOGA program is ongoing throughout the year. Thirteen teams that pass preliminary selections from our organizations 5 Learn and Resonate Externalize 2 Declare Commitment around the world are invited to come to Kyoto to present their Walk TOGA initiatives at the OMRON Global Meet. These teams bring Resonate the Talk back news of how other team initiatives were received to their local workplaces, sharing their experiences with their co-workers 4 3 and expand the resonating circle throughout the world. Review and Put Commitment Share into Practice The TOGA Process TOGA is designed based on the SECI* Model of knowledge management in which the tacit knowledge of an individual is drawn out to become shared knowledge throughout an organization. OMRON engages in a cycle of setting inspirational goals, taking action, and reviewing progress to share information and encourage buy-in throughout the entire year. *SECI Model: A knowledge management mechanism produced by Hitotsubashi University professor Ikujiro Nonaka that focuses on knowledge creation activities. Through a conversion process of socialization, externalization, combination, and internalization, organizations can take the tacit knowledge of an individual and create shared knowledge throughout a group or organization. (Source: Globis University, Graduate School of Management MBA Glossary) Seven Years of TOGA Evolution In the seven years since its launch in fiscal 2012, TOGA has received entries a cumulative 31,000 entries from 275,000 people. This grassroots initiative to practice the OMRON Principles has taken root across the globe. After OMRON revised the OMRON Principles in 2015, each company and division began conducting activities to clearly demonstrate the link between the principles and our business. As a result, TOGA projects have become more diversified, with more projects addressing innovation driven by social needs every year. The TOGA program itself has seen an evolution in the content of employee submissions. And the circle of resonance that originates from TOGA has expanded to include individuals even from outside OMRON. Event-based movement Expanded opportunities for Linking innovation driven by Rules and communications externalization and resonance social needs to the workplace driven by the head office More company-driven, Expanding circle of resonance local workplace participation inside and outside OMRON 2012 2015 2017 2020 62,469 Themes Participants 51,093 46,885 38,100 6,957 32,751 6,216 23,524 5,003 20,828 4,173 3,651 2,481 2,519 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 65 Vision Strategy Business Governance Financial Info Corporate Info To Become People Who Practice the OMRON Principles OMRON Employees Living the Values To link practice of the OMRON Principles to personal action for each employee, we have defined 18 examples of living the values inspired by the OMRON Principles. Innovation Driven by Social Needs Be a pioneer in creating inspired solutions for the future. [Living the Values] Look at society from a future-oriented perspective. Always think and act in pursuit of the true issue. Always remember that the customer is our focus Never be satisfied; never settle for the status quo. Make it Habit to ask “why?” and “for what reason?” Try new things and new ways that have never been tried before Challenging Ourselves Pursue new challenges with passion and courage. [Living the Values] Use the 70:30 theory*; try, fix, and perfect. Enjoy challenges. Use failure as fuel for success. Declare and pursue higher goals. Have an unshakeable faith in yourself; have the strength of conviction. Don’t wait to be told; take the initiative and take action. *The 70:30 Theory: An idea with a 70% change of success is worth trying. But, have preparations in place for the 30% change of failure. Respect for All Act with integrity and encourage everyone’s potential. [Living the Values] We exercise responsibility and good sense in obeying the law and the rules of society. We act with integrity at all times, no matter what the business environment. We realize that we are a member of society, and we endeavor to act with consideration and empathy to others. Don’t give up before trying; believe that you can succeed. Believe in the capabilities of your team members; support each other and work for growth. Accept those who have different views & values; use these differences to create new value. 66 Business Environment Environment Corresponding SDGs Building an environment for a sustainable society is part of improving lives and contributing to a better society, as stated in the OMRON Principles. In support of this ideal, we pursue initiatives under our Green OMRON 2020 environmental vision. Green OMRON 2020 sets six environmental targets as goals for 2020. Of these goals, Reductions of Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Appropriate Management and Reduction of the use of Hazardous Substances were two on which we focused in 2017 as important company-wide sustainability initiatives. Initiatives to Achieve OMRON Carbon Zero, Aiming for Zero Greenhouse Gas Emissions by Fiscal 2050 In July 2018, OMRON set OMRON Carbon Zero as a new target aiming for  reenhouse Gas Emissions G zero greenhouse gas emissions by fiscal 2050. In line with this initiative and Reduction Targets Target in response to climate change and global warming, we changed our Reduction (%) greenhouse gas emissions indicator from net sales to CO2 emissions to Fiscal 2016 Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal (Reference Year) total emissions. Using 2016 greenhouse gas emissions quantities as a 0 2020 2030 2050 baseline, we backcast from 2050 to develop targets for 2030 and 2020. 4% Reduction 25 Fiscal 2018 results: 32% Reduction Created an action plan towards the 2020 4% reduction targets 50 (energy savings, introduction and purchase of renewable energy), achieving fiscal 2018 reductions of 21,000 t-CO2 (baseline: 2016) 75 ahead of schedule. 100 100% Reduction At OMRON, 90% of our greenhouse gas emissions are from our electricity usage. Therefore, our efforts regarding electricity usage are a priority issue. To this end, our basic policy is to minimize the amount of electricity used within OMRON and use renewable energy for business activities that contribute to corporate growth and reduced greenhouse gas emissions. In fiscal 2018, we reviewed electricity procurement methods for approximately 40% of OMRON’s electricity consumption in Japan. We began procuring electricity from renewable sources in the Kansai area of Japan in December 2018 and in June 2019 for the Kanto area of Japan. In the future, we will expand these initiatives to Asia and other regions, looking towards zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. The OMRON Principles are the foundation of everything we do. OMRON Corporate motto is to improve lives and contribute to a better society. In terms of the environment, this means using our business activities to reduce environmental impact and increase our contribution to the environment, helping others live a secure and comfortable life in a true sustainable society. We believe our mission is to pass on a better society to future generations. In pursuit of this mission, we promote environmental activities as part of our day-to-day practice of the OMRON Principles. Global Manufacturing Innovation HQ, Teruyasu Imai 67 Vision Strategy Business Governance Financial Info Corporate Info Initiatives to Reduce Greenhouse Gas Emissions OMRON’s environmental actions for reducing greenhouse gas emissions are twofold. First, reduce the environmental impact through our business activities and second, contribute to the environment by providing society with valuable products and services. One example of reducing the environmental burden through our business activities is promoting energy-savings by visualizing energy consumption in our facilities. This includes air conditioning and lighting on factory product floors and providing optimum control of this equipment in line with production status. We are also installing solar power facilities in our buildings. Examples of reducing our environmental burden through our business is our power conditioners, used for solar power generation, and storage batteries. These products facilitate the efficient use of generated electricity (measured as environmental contribution). At the same time, our products provide energy systems and services for local production and consumption linked to regional revitalization. Make Maximum Use of All Management Resources Offer Products and Services Useful to Society Japan Products Reduce Our P59 Environmental Impact Adopted system to visualize electricity Greater Volume of Products that contribute to the usage (Ayabe City, Kyoto) Environmental spread of clean energy Contribution Overseas Services + P30 Converted self-generated power to clean Used abandoned fields to create locally energy (Production plant in Guangzhou City, produced, locally consumed energy China) (Miyazu City, Kyoto) Support for TCFD OMRON recognizes that climate change impacts our future sustainable growth. We are engaged in the following framework, using the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), for which we declared our support in February 2019. Category OMRON Initiatives Incorporate climate change issues into governance and management systems for sustainability initiatives and goals Governance Link overall sustainability, including climate change, to executive mediumand long-term performance-linked compensation (internal directors, executive officers) Risk: Started study of increased business costs due to higher energy costs, capital investment in renewable energy/energy-saving facilities, and the impact of carbon tax, etc. (migration risk) and support for business continuity in our own company and supply chain associated Strategy with flood damage or similar (physical risk). Opportunity: Increased environmental contribution from our business through products and services; also, we can expect more opportunities from environmental business and in environment-related service and maintenance businesses Collect and analyze a wide range of information on risk factors including regulations and impact on business Risk ManageUnderstand the vulnerability of production centers to natural disasters (flooding, torrential rain, ment water shortages, etc.) which are expected to increase in scale and frequency as a result of climate change; make preparations for business continuity Set targets aimed at achieving Carbon Zero (Scope 1 and 2) by fiscal 2050 Indicators and (Revised to 1.5C target to match SBT* accepted norms) Targets Target for Scope 3 also being considered *SBT: Science Based Targets. Science-based, mediumto long-term targets for reducing greenhouse gases. 68 Business Risk Management Risk Management Corresponding SDGs Integrated Risk Management Supporting Global Business Activities At the same time we began executing VG2020, we also launched our existing integrated risk management program. Our risk management platform reflects the sentiment of top management that the faster pace of change in the operating environment and rising levels of uncertainty calls for preparation and rapid response to risk. Management felt the need for OMRON to become Businesses and Risk* more attuned to risk, addressing risks External Risk Management, Business Strategy, Financial Risk Impact on management performance and financial condition at the earliest stages. Economic Ratings Market trends OMRON must deal with a variety of Macro: downturn Macro: downgrade Finance: Economic Yen interest rates risks as we continue to expand our Macro: fluctuations up Finance: FX rate Anti-bribery Legal: businesses globally. In response, we Market volatility Finance: movements Macro: Anti-trust Legal: have categorized the entire spectrum Defects, recalls Quality of risks that impact management Human Wages up Patent disputes R&D: performance and financial health. capital: Shortage of Human Brand Having categorized these risks, we R&D: management capital: infringement Environmental Environmental Labor code then chart their interrelationships. rules Quality: Regulatory: law infringement Legal: Change in Information Human We use this framework as a link R&D: specifications Industrial accident securities capital: Legal: Security trade between management and the local controls Legal: Initial response workplace, helping management work failure Quality Supplier CSR with local staff to engage in risk Price changes Procurement: issues Procurement: management that resolves issues that Human Risk Legal Risk must be dealt with at levels above the local workplace. VG2.0 includes Component Natural disaster Data breach IT security: Procurement: shortages measures related to business risk Major data Contagious disease Shipments halt IT security: Production: management that supports innovative collapse System failure Production halt IT security: Production: creation. Natural Disaster Risk Resource, Infrastructure Risk *Graphic representation of the business risks as shown on https://www.omron.co.jp/ir/keiei/risk.html Integrated Risk Management Structure OMRON has established PDCA activities that are conducted throughout the year to analyze risks, respond to critical risks, and engage in crisis management. For example, we summarize and share past examples of risk internally throughout the group. We formalize this shared framework into a document titled OMRON Group Rules Based on the OMRON Principles. This document clarifies the role of risk management in OMRON Group management. Activity Cycle for Integrated Risk Management Corporate Ethics & Risk Management Execute Plan Committee Share and report information related to Determine risk response plan for the upcoming important risks year Plan Do Conduct activities based on the plan Determine budgets for the upcoming year Corporate ethics month Board of Directors Analyze Global Risk Annual activity review Headquarters, regional headquarters, Executive Council divisions Report the progress of activities for the current Act Check Corporate Ethics & Risk Management year Committee Report results of global risk analysis Annual activity review Determine important Group risks for the Share analysis of risks upcoming year Select important Group risks (draft) Disclose Results of Activities 69 Vision Strategy Business Governance Financial Info Corporate Info Initiatives to Strengthen Compliance Through Instilling Ethics Rules One example of living the values in the OMRON Principles is to exercise responsibility and good sense in obeying the law and the rules of society. In fiscal 2016, we began a global expansion of Corporate Ethics Month activities from Japan to encourage all employees to put this action into practice. The OMRON Corporate Ethics Month serves as an opportunity to take a fresh look at whether our business initiatives are honest with society from a perspective of compliance with laws and rules, returning back to the origins of the OMRON Principles. We have designated October every year as our Corporate Ethics Month. During the month, we provide opportunities to instill ethics in our employees and conduct ethics training. To expand these activities globally, we have asked staff responsible for risk management from every division across the world to serve as core members in discussing best methods for our activities to take root globally. As a result, we have decided to engage shared group initiatives based on the OMRON Principles. We will also add initiatives customized to the laws, customs, and other attributes in regions on the forefront of our businesses. In fiscal 2018, in addition to translating CEO Yoshihito Yamada’s message into 25 languages for distribution to all global employees, we also put independent rules for ethical conduct in place in each region. One example is our response to the EU General Data Protection Regulation, which significantly strengthens personal information protection. Here, we have gone to great lengths to make this issue more familiar to our employees, providing information about the new rules as we tailor our response to meet the issues of the times. By sponsoring these types of initiatives to raise awareness of ethics, we achieved a 77 percent positive response related to Practicing Ethics and Honesty in our fiscal 2018 VOICE engagement survey. The third-party entity conducting the survey for use indicated that this was a very healthy situation for a company. P61 Human Resources Management In the Asia Pacific area, OMRON held an event to raise ethics awareness In EU area,instilling Corporate Ethics at OMRON Through Educational among all employees. The event encouraged employees to wear green, Posters, E-Learning Training representing growth, harmony, safety, and the environment. Whistleblowing System Available to Employees and Families OMRON has established the OMRON Group Rules for Ethical Conduct, which provides for respect for human rights through our organization and employees, creating a workplace respectful of labor standards, prohibiting private actions that may harm the safety of OMRON products and services or the OMRON brand, and more. We have created a Whistleblowing System (internal reporting and consultation desk) for use in the event of violations or potential violations of rules, helping the company quickly identify and resolve such issues. Since establishing the system in Japan in 2003, we have expanded the system globally in formats tailored to each region. We have set up liaison desks both inside and outside the company. Our internal desk is staffed by local legal affairs departments, while our external desk is overseen by specialist organizations and attorneys. These desks are available not only to full-time OMRON employees, but also to contract employees, part-time employees, temporary staff, and families, including those at OMRON affiliate companies. Internal rules require strict confidentiality and prohibit retaliatory action. Further, we publicize this system through bulletin boards, internal training, and other means. In fiscal 2018, OMRON received 83 notifications and requests for advice. 70 Business Responding to Natural Disasters Responding to Natural Disasters Corresponding SDGs During fiscal 2018, major earthquakes in northern Osaka, Hokkaido, Indonesia, and Mexico, as well as heavy rain and large typhoons in western Japan, were natural disasters with the potential to threaten the continuity of OMRON businesses. Since the March 2011 Great East Japan Earthquake, OMRON has been working to fulfill our supply and business continuity social responsibilities. We have also strengthened our response to risks such as natural disasters, which we can only expect to increase. Stronger Procurement BCP Via Supplier and Risk Management Systems As a manufacturer, we believe in the importance of fulfilling our supply responsibilities and thereby raising our corporate value. As part of our efforts to minimize the impact of natural disasters on customers and our own business, we took the lessons learned from the Great East Japan Earthquake, and in 2012 implemented the OMRON Supplier and Risk Management System (SRM), a countermeasure against procurement risk. SRM is an application software installed on enterprise systems to manage the location and parts manufacturing information related to global suppliers. During the Great East Japan Earthquake, many suppliers of semiconductors and electronic components in the Tohoku region suffered damages that had an extensive impact on our components procurement network. We spent more than one month in understanding and identifying parts and production information, leading to an extended period of uncertainty about production recovery. We built SRM as a response to the lessons learned at that time. In the wake of the Kumamoto earthquakes in 2016, we created guidelines for procurement BCP operations, while continuing to refine both operations and systems. Today, we can use information obtained via SRM during a disaster to identify components produced by suppliers in the area and products made from said components. This information allows us to conduct simulations and assess the impact on our business within 24 hours. The OMRON SRM and procurement BCP showed its effectiveness during the 2018 Mexico earthquake, the northern Osaka earthquake, and the heavy rains in western Japan. We identified the situation at our suppliers and managed components quickly, meeting our responsibilities for procurement and supply as a manufacturer. Parts Inventory Sales Business Information Information Information Impact Simulation SRM (Information on Components Implementation Production Location) Simulations of the business impact using parts, inventory, and sales data based Shared Global Operating Guidelines on production location information for components registered in SRM (Published in 2016) OMRON engages in Procurement BCP not because of the potential for disaster, but with the knowledge that disasters will happen. Based on this stance we engage in measures to collect information constantly and to mitigate risks. Information accuracy is important for making a prompt response to emergencies. With the cooperation of our suppliers, we use an interactive system to secure information in a timely manner. Even during disasters, OMRON contributes to a sustainable society by meeting our responsibilities to supply our customers. Global Manufacturing Innovation HQ Kumiko Ueno 71 Vision Strategy Business Governance Financial Info Corporate Info BCP Training for Stronger Disaster Management Since the Great East Japan Earthquake, OMRON has focused on disaster-response measures, as well as related training and education in every global location. Our efforts here are to prevent or mitigate human and property damage through prompt, correct initial response in the event of a disaster. We believe that we can only respond to a disaster to the extent that we have prepared. Therefore, we conduct drills in each location around the world, assuming the type of disaster that may occur, aiming to improve employee awareness of disaster and disaster-response capabilities. In addition to initial response training, evacuation Training at a Production Center for Electronic and Mechanical Components training, safety confirmation training, and other training Business (December 2017) for all employees, OMRON has been engaged in business continuity planning (BCP) training since 2012, mainly in Japan, which has a propensity for natural disasters such as earthquakes and typhoons. Our preparation proved itself in the Kumamoto earthquake of April 2016. While OMRON facilities in Kumamoto and Oita suffered damage, we incurred no major interruptions to production. OMRON RELAY & DEVICES Corporation, a production center for electronic components, quickly confirmed the safety of employees and production quality. In fact, OMRON RELAY & DEVICES was one of the earliest companies in Kumamoto to return to regular production. This outstanding performance was the result of regular disaster preparedness training, as well as BCP training conducted in 2014 in anticipation of earthquakes. To incorporate the experience and expertise cultivated through these Japanese-based training programs throughout the entire OMRON Group, we began rolling out BCP training globally in fiscal 2016. In fiscal 2018, we conducted training in 15 locations, mainly in Asia, China, and Japan, which represent the bulk of our production centers. In BCP training, senior management and crisis-management personnel at each site create scenarios based on the experience and perspective of OMRON in past disasters. Responses are formulated based on these projected scenarios. This type of training allows OMRON to improve our ability to predict situations, share awareness of disaster-preparedness among member companies, and minimize the impact of disasters on our business. Disaster-response and BCP training raise employee awareness of prevention. At the same time, we focus on knowledge management to ensure training and experience from disasters become knowledge assets. Our ongoing efforts will lead directly to employee safety, to meeting our supply responsibility, and to ensuring OMRON business continuity. OMRON takes measures to prevent indirect risk, direct risk, and to prevent damages to our business and our employees. We also employ safety measures to protect against the event of risk and damage. I have a personal desire to support OMRON Group businesses by going out into the field to work with local workplaces to engage in day-to-day safety measures for the employees who work at OMRON. Through local experience and sharing what I learn with the rest of the OMRON Group, I help protect the safety of our employees and contribute to the further development of our business. OMRON EXPERTLINK Co., Ltd. Masanori Kushida 72 Message from the Chairman OMRON Continues to Improve Our Unique Governance Mechanisms from Viewpoint of Society, Striving for Sustainable Enhancement of Corporate Value August 2019 Chairman Fumio Tateishi Management Based on the OMRON carry on our Corporate Motto. Since that time, we have revised these principles three times to match Principles and Corporate Governance our development as a company and the changing times, relying on the OMRON Principles as the To improve lives and contribute to a better society. bedrock of our management. The objective of OMRON’s Corporate Motto, established in 1959, corporate governance at OMRON is to ensure we reflects two desires of our founder. The first is an practice the OMRON Principles and create rising aspiration to contribute to a better society through levels of corporate value. business. The second is a declaration that OMRON will be a leader in creating a better society. When we officially changed our name to OMRON in 1990, we created the OMRON Principles as a way to 73 Vision Strategy Business Governance Financial Info Corporate Info Corporate Governance Policies Unique to track record in selecting presidents. This recognition has become another motivation for future OMRON improvement. OMRON strives for elevated transparency and Building Greater Corporate Value fairness in management, emphasizing organic communications between supervisory and frontline execution functions to generate greater speed We have entered our third year operating under the in our business. In other words, the role of OMRON VG2.0 medium-term management plan. Looking at corporate governance is to be a mechanism for our external environment, we see continued innovation driven by social needs and sustainable uncertainty in the global situation stemming from corporate value growth. U.S.-China trade friction. In these times, businesses OMRON balances the dynamic relationship must be even more capable of responding to between governance controls and management by environmental change. OMRON aspires to solve clearly separating the supervisory and business social issues, backcasting from the future, rather execution roles in the company. The chairperson than focusing on the short term. acts as the chair of the board of directors, while the More specifically, in 2017 we established key CEO serves as the person ultimately responsible sustainability issues which we address by solving for business management. This system has evolved social issues through our businesses and by over 23 years since we established the answering the expectations of our stakeholders. Management Personnel Advisory Committee in Sustainable corporate value growth relies on an 1996. And our Long-Term Vision, created in 1991, approach combining initiatives for key sustainability has been the foundation for making this possible. issues with our VG2.0 medium-term management By maintaining a long-term vision, we have evolved plan. As the result of a board of director evaluation, corporate governance as a support for innovation the OMRON board of directors identified driven by social needs and our ongoing aspirations sustainability as a key management policy and for more innovation. continue to address sustainability in board In 2017, we revised our director remuneration discussions. system, raising the ratios of mediumand longWe began conducting board of director evaluations term performance-linked compensation. We did in 2015, performed by the Corporate Governance this to further motivate our directors to practice the Committee, which consists of outside directors and OMRON Principles and strive to raise corporate outside members of the Audit & Supervisory value over the medium and long term. We use the Board. The results of these evaluations are used to voluntary disclosure of this director remuneration determine policies for the operation of the board of policy to demonstrate our commitment to directors and key topics for the next fiscal year. In sustainable corporate value improvement to our so doing, we strive to raise sustainable corporate stakeholders and encourage a better understanding value through exercising oversight and lifting board of our management philosophy and initiatives. effectiveness. In fiscal 2019, we will once again In recognition of our commitment, OMRON operate our board based on these policies to received the Minister of Economy, Trade and achieve VG2.0 and exercise our oversight function Industry Award in the first-ever Corporate looking ahead to our next long-term vision, which Governance of the Year 2018. This award is will begin in fiscal 2021. sponsored by the Japan Association of Corporate OMRON will continue to rely on the OMRON Directors. In particular, OMRON was noted for our Principles, improving our unique corporate president selection and succession plan, operated governance mechanisms from the viewpoint of under the CEO Selection Advisory Committee. The society, striving for sustainable enhancement of selection of a corporate president is the first order corporate value. of business for corporate governance. Here, OMRON was singled out for high transparency in the selection process, the ongoing effectiveness of our CEO Selection Advisory Committee, and our 74 Governance Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Basic Stance for Corporate Governance At the OMRON Group, corporate governance is defined as the system of processes and practices based on the OMRON Principles and the OMRON Management Philosophy. The system is intended to ensure transparency and fairness in business and speed up management decisions and practices. This is done by connecting the entire process from oversight and supervision all the way to business execution in order to boost the OMRON Group’s competitive edge. OMRON’s corporate governance also involves building such a system and maintaining its proper function. The ultimate objective is to achieve sustainable enhancement of corporate value by earning the support of all stakeholders. Omron Corporate Governance Policies OMRON Corporation established the OMRON Corporate Governance Policies*1 based on the Basic Stance for Corporate Governance. Since establishing the Management Personnel Advisory Committee in 1996, we have spent more than 20 years formalizing and strengthening our framework of corporate governance. We intend to continue our pursuit of ongoing corporate governance improvement as we develop our own unique vision of governance. *1 Omron Corporate Governance Policies https://www.omron.com/about/corporate/governance/policy/ Corporate Governance Initiatives 1999 2003 2011 President 1987: Yoshio Tateishi 2003: Hisao Sakuta 2011: Yoshihito Yamada Chair of the Board 2003: Chairman serves as chair of the Board of Directors; President served as both of Directors / CEO president serves as CEO 1999: Revised articles of incorporation, 2017: Eliminated Separation of setting number of board members to 10 or fewer board titles*2 management oversight 30 directors and business execution 2017: Positioned 1999: Adopted executive officer system president as an executive officer Advisory Board 1999: Advisory Board 2001: One 2003: Two outside directors 2015: Three outside Outside Directors outside (seven directors) directors (eight directors) director Audit & Supervisory 1998: One 2003: Three members 2011: Two members Board Members 1999: Two members member (four auditors) (four auditors) (Independent) 1996: Management Personnel Advisory 2000: Personnel Advisory Committee Committee 2003: Compensation Advisory Committee Advisory and Other Committees 2006: CEO Selection Advisory Committee 2008: Corporate Governance Committee 1959: 1990: Corporate Corporate OMRON 1998: Revised 2006: Revised 2015: Revised Philosophy Motto Principles OMRON Corporate 2015: Established Governance Policies *2 Not including chairman of the Board 75 Vision Strategy Business Governance Financial Info Corporate Info Corporate Governance Framework OMRON has elected to be a company with an Audit & Supervisory Board. The OMRON Board of Directors is made up of eight members to ensure substantive discussion and deliberations. OMRON has separated the management oversight and business execution functions within the company, creating a system whereby the majority of Board Directors are not engaged directly in business operations. We have also adopted a policy setting the ratio of outside directors to at least one-third of the total number of directors on the board. To increase objectivity on behalf of the Board of Directors, the titles and roles of chairman of the Board and President (CEO) have been separated. The Chairman serves as chair of the Board of Directors with no direct corporate representational authority. OMRON has established several advisory committees to enhance the oversight functions of the Board of Directors. These committees include the Personnel Advisory Committee, the CEO Selection Advisory Committee, the Compensation Advisory Committee, and the Corporate Governance Committee. The Personnel Advisory Committee, the CEO Selection Advisory Committee, and the Compensation Advisory Committee are all chaired by outside directors with at least half of the committee members being outside directors. The CEO is not a member of any of these committees. The chair and members of the Corporate Governance Committee are outside directors and outside members of the Audit & Supervisory Board. This structure offers another layer of transparency and objectivity to the decision-making process. In these policies, OMRON has created a hybrid governance framework that combining the best features of a company with an Audit & Supervisory Board and a company with a Nomination Committee. Outside directors and outside members of the Audit & Supervisory Board attended the 13 meetings of the Board of Directors held during fiscal 2018 at a rate of 100%. Outside members had an attendance rate of 96.2% at the 13 meetings of the Audit & Supervisory Board. Fiscal 2019 Corporate Governance Framework Shareholders’ Meeting Audit & Supervisory Board Board of Directors Chair: Chairman of the Board Audit & Supervisory Board Office Board of Directors Office Personnel Advisory Committee Accounting Auditor Sustainability Office CEO Selection Advisory Committee Compensation Advisory Committee Corporate Governance Committee Executive Organization President & CEO Internal Audit Division Executive Council Business Companies Sustainability Committee* Head Office Divisions (Internal Companies) * The Sustainability Committee identifies important issues relating to sustainability in the focus domains, the head office divisions, and various committees (the Corporate Ethics & Risk Management Committee, the Information Disclosure Executive Committee, and the Group Environment Activity Committee) and oversees them on a Group-wide basis. Board of Directors Audit & Supervisory Board Personnel Advisory Committee CEO Selection Advisory Committee Selects board directors, auditors, Oversees corporate governance Sets standards and policies Deliberates candidates for and executive officers, determines framework and execution related to selecting and hiring selection as new CEO; deliberates compensation for directors and business operations; conducts directors, Audit & Supervisory succession plans and candidates executive officers, makes audits of day-to-day business Board members, and executive in the event of an emergency. decisions on important business activities, including those officers; deliberates on proposed issues, and performs other performed by directors. candidates. supervisory functions. Compensation Advisory Committee Corporate Governance Committee Executive Council Sets policies for director and Oversees ongoing corporate Deliberates and discusses executive officer compensation; governance improvement; important operational matters deliberates compensation levels deliberates policies to advance within the scope of the authority and specific compensation management transparency and of the president and CEO; packages. fairness. determines future direction. 76 Governance Corporate Governance Fiscal 2019 Advisory Committee Members Personnel CEO Selection Compensation Corporate Title Name Advisory Advisory Advisory Governance Committee Committee Committee Committee Chairman of the Board Fumio Tateishi Representative Director Yoshihito Yamada Representative Director Kiichiro Miyata Director Koji Nitto Director Satoshi Ando Outside Director Eizo Kobayashi Outside Director Kuniko Nishikawa Outside Director Takehiro Kamigama Audit & Supervisory Board Member (Full-time) Kiichiro Kondo Audit & Supervisory Board Member (Full-time) Kiyoshi Yoshikawa Audit & Supervisory Board Member (Independent) Hideyo Uchiyama Audit & Supervisory Board Member (Independent) Tadashi Kunihiro Chairperson Vice-Chairperson Committee Member Independent under Tokyo Stock Exchange rules Director Compensation OMRON has set up the Compensation Advisory Committee for the purpose of bolstering the management oversight function of the Board of Directors by enhancing transparency and objectivity in determining compensation amounts for each director and executive officer. In response to a consultation request from the chairperson of the Board of Directors, the Compensation Advisory Committee deliberates on and makes recommendations regarding the Compensation Policy for Directors. The Compensation Advisory Committee also deliberates on and determines the Compensation Policy for Executive Officers in response to a consultation request from the CEO. Reflecting the committee’s recommendations, the Board of Directors determines the Compensation Policy for Directors. Based on the above-mentioned respective Compensation Policy, the Compensation Advisory Committee deliberates on compensation of Directors and Executive Officers. Director compensation is based on input from the Compensation Advisory Committee. The board of directors considers this input to determines director compensation within the scope approved by a resolution at the general meeting of shareholders. The amount of executive officer compensation is determined in accord with deliberations and reports from the Compensation Advisory Committee. These amounts shall be within the maximum limit of the sum of compensation amounts for all directors, as set by a resolution of the General Meeting of Shareholders. The amounts of compensation for individual executive officers shall be determined according to the recommendations of the Compensation Advisory Committee. *See our website for more about Audit & Supervisory Board member compensation policies. https://www.omron.com/about/corporate/governance/compensation/ Compensation Policy for Directors Basic Policy The Company shall provide compensation sufficient to recruit as directors exceptional people who are capable of putting the OMRON Principles into practice. The compensation structure shall be sufficient to motivate directors to contribute to sustainable enhancement of corporate value. The compensation structure shall maintain a high level of transparency, fairness, and rationality to ensure accountability to shareholders and other stakeholders. Structure of Compensation for directors shall consist of a base salary, which is fixed compensation, and Compensation performance-linked compensation, which varies depending on the Company’s performance. Compensation for outside directors shall consist of a base salary only, reflecting their roles and the need for maintaining independence. Base Salary The amount of a base salary shall be determined by taking into account the salary levels of other companies, as surveyed by a specialized outside organization. PerformanceAs short-term performance-linked compensation, the Company shall provide bonuses linked to Linked yearly performance indicators, and to the degree of achievement of performance targets. Compensation As mediumto long-term performance-linked compensation, the Company shall grant stock compensation linked to the degree of achievement of the goals of the medium-term management plan, and to the improvement in corporate value (value of stock). The Company shall determine the target amounts for short-term performance-linked compensation and mediumto long-term performance-linked compensation based on the target pay mix specified according to each director’s role and responsibility. Compensation All compensation for directors shall be determined by a resolution of the Board of Directors Governance reflecting the deliberations and recommendations of the Compensation Advisory Committee. 77 Vision Strategy Business Governance Financial Info Corporate Info Overview of Compensation Structure for Directors (1) Compensation Composition Ratio Compensation consists of a “base salary” (fixed compensation) and compensation according to Company performance, namely “short-term performance-linked compensation (bonuses)” and “medium-to-long-term, performance-linked compensation (Performance-linked and Share-based Incentive Plan).” The ratio of compensation consisting of performance-linked compensation compared to base salary has been determined for each role: Short-term Medium-to-long-term, Base salary : performance-linked compensation : performance-linked compensation (Performance-linked and Share-based 1:1:1.5* (bonuses) Incentive Plan) *Referring to Representative Director, President and CEO *The ratio is based on the assumption that the performance targets are set as 100% for each performance-linked compensation (2) Base Salary A base salary is paid to Directors as fixed compensation. Base salaries are determined for each role by taking into account the salary levels of officers at other companies (benchmarked companies of the same industry and scope selected by the Compensation Advisory Committee), as surveyed by a specialized outside organization. (3) Short-term Performance-linked Compensation (Bonuses) Bonuses are paid to Directors excluding Directors (Independent) as short-term performance-linked compensation, which is linked to yearly performance indicators and the degree of achievement of performance targets. Director bonuses vary between 0% and 200% according to the achievement of operating income, net income, and ROIC targets defined in the annual operating plan. Base amount Performance score Short-term performancefor each (Operating income 50%, ROIC score linked compensation position net income 50%) (bonuses) (4) Medium-to-long-term, Performance-linked Compensation (Performance-linked and Sharebased Incentive Plan) Stock compensation is paid as medium-to-long-term, performance-linked compensation to Directors excluding Directors (Independent). Stock compensation comprises the performance-linked component (60%), which is linked to the degree of achievement of the medium-term management plan, and the nonperformancelinked component (40%), which aims for retention and motivation to improve share prices over the mediumto long-term, and is paid under the condition of a certain term of service. Stock compensation for performance-linked component varies between 0% and 200%, according to achievement of net sales, EPS, and ROE targets based on the medium-term management plan, as well as sustainability evaluation* based on a third-party organization. Base amount Performance Stock score Sustainability for each ROE score compensation (Net sales 30%, evaluation* position EPS 70%) (performance-linked) As a rule, stock paid in stock-based compensation must be held by the individual during their term of service. In the event that an individual Director in question engages in serious misconduct during their term of service, and such misconduct harms the Company, the Compensation Advisory Committee will deliberate and make a recommendation. Based on this discussion and recommendation, the Board of Directors shall resolve to limit the payment of stockbased compensation. * Sustainability evaluation An evaluation based on the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI). The DJSI are a series of ESG Indices which include companies evaluated and selected based on long-term shareholder value perspective, reflecting economic, environmental, and social factors comprehensively. 78 Audit & Supervisory Audit & Supervisory Outside Director Outside Director Outside Director Chairman of the Board Board Member Board Member Takehiro Kamigama Kuniko Nishikawa Eizo Kobayashi Fumio Tateishi Tadashi Kunihiro Hideyo Uchiyama Outside Officers Round Table Discussion Especially in uncertain times, it is important to optimize the balance between corporate governance and dynamic execution. This is where the effectiveness of the Board of Directors comes into question. We started evaluating the effectiveness of our Board of Directors in fiscal 2015, in addition to the work we had been doing to strengthen our board’s oversight function to improve board effectiveness. We have taken this as an opportunity to change operations of the Board of Directors into something similar to a monitoring board* which focuses on discussions of mediumand long-term issues. In this feature, we invited OMRON’s outside directors and outside Audit & Supervisory Board members to participate in a round-table discussion to speak frankly about the characteristics of OMRON’s governance and future issues. † Fumio Tateishi, Chairman of the Board of Directors served as facilitator for this round-table discussion. * Monitoring board: A board of directors that oversees business operations, focusing on the election and dismissal of officers. This typically corresponds to a board of directors for a company that has a Nominating Committee or the like. 79 Vision Strategy Business Governance Financial Info Corporate Info Tateishi: I’d like to ask you for your frank impressions of the OMRON Board of Directors. Kobayashi: The most important characteristic is that the Board of Directors encourages a free and open discussion, no matter whether the person speaking is an inside or outside director or member of the Audit & Supervisory Board. The knowledge and expertise of our outside directors should reaffirm OMRON’s policies and philosophy. We hold more meaningful discussions, even if opinions conflict at times. OMRON executives consider the requests and proposals of outside directors. These executives use the PDCA cycle to take on the many Eizo Kobayashi challenges they face, and it is my impression that Outside Director Chairman of the Personnel Advisory Committee the quality of governance is high. I feel we have Chairman of the CEO Selection Advisory Committee even more to learn to contribute to the evolutionary Chairman of the Corporate Governance Committee process. Compensation Advisory Committee Member Nishikawa: Does this mean the members of Board of Directors discussing matters from various points of view? Working with the directors who also serve in an executive capacity, I feel that governance has accordingly. We outside directors are not simply evolved steadily each year by taking a diversity of looking at organization from the top down. We are opinions seriously and making improvements also drawing on knowledge and experience from our respective fields to enhance corporate value. I believe that all members of the board share this objective. Kamigama: The great thing about OMRON Board of Directors is that it is instilling the OMRON Principles among the people at the working level of the company. The other day, I attended The OMRON Global Awards (TOGA) conference. I was impressed by the presentations that showed OMRON Principles are being put into practice by OMRON employees around the world. Underlying a shared basic belief that a business should create value for society through its key practices, OMRON’s mission under the OMRON Principles is “To improve lives and contribute to a better Kuniko Nishikawa society.” This fundamental approach informs the Outside Director work of all OMRON employees, making OMRON Chairman of the Compensation Advisory Committee fundamentally different from companies that think Vice-Chairman of the Corporate Governance Committee solely of their own profit. Although there is a clear Personnel Advisory Committee Member distinction between the management oversight and CEO Selection Advisory Committee Member executive functions of the OMRON Board of 80 Directors, the objective is identical: to put the both the Board of Directors and the people on the OMRON Principles into practice. I am honored and front lines are serious about OMRON Principlespleased to participate in this vision as an outside based management and social responsibility. director. P63 Human Resources Management (TOGA) Solving social issues was a priority at OMRON long Uchiyama: Since you’re talking about the before people talked about ESG and SDGs. The characteristics of the OMRON Board of Directors, company has many years to enhance corporate I’d like to talk about the mechanisms that ensure value under a long-term vision, rather than focusing the correct functioning of the board. The person on the short term. OMRON has been unwavering chairing the Board of Directors important in in this commitment. This is OMRON’s greatest ensuring board governance. When an executive strength. P19 VG2.0 Medium-Term Management Plan chairs a board, there is a tendency for them to steer the board toward a conclusion. As a nonTateishi: In fiscal l2015, we introduced a board executive chair, Mr. Tateishi acts as a facilitator to of directors evaluation system as a measure to draw out the experience and knowledge of outside improve the Board of Directors. The results of directors, rather than head directly toward a the evaluations are analyzed and reflected in the predetermined conclusion. Directors and members policies of the Board of Directors in the of the Audit & Supervisory Board corporate auditors following year. Could you please share your have different positions under the Companies Act. impressions of this system? However, board meetings are managed without dwelling on those differences. Even as members of Kobayashi: Since beginning board of directors the Audit & Supervisory Board, we are allowed to evaluations in fiscal 2015, we have persistently participate actively in discussions. I think that’s used the PDCA cycle to define policies for the quite important. board of directors. For example, the board of Kunihiro: I really like OMRON. What I like is that directors and executives are conscientious in following up and making improvements to areas that have been given low marks in evaluations. As a result, evaluation results have been steadily improving. We also clarify mediumand long-term issues, using a straight-forward PDCA cycle to achieve goals. I think we are moving in a good direction. Kamigama: As Mr. Kobayashi says, the issues identified by the Board of Directors are immediately addressed, the issues get clarified and are taken up in discussions of the Board of Directors. We don’t see that kind of engagement at other companies, but I think it’s really important. Nishikawa: I very much appreciate this Board of Directors evaluation system. I personally believe that this Board of Directors evaluation system is a Takehiro Kamigama very effective “tool for dialogue” between company Outside Director executives and outside directors. The system Personnel Advisory Committee Member CEO Selection Advisory Committee Member makes it possible for honest opinions to be Compensation Advisory Committee Member expressed directly and for one to expect a sincere Corporate Governance Committee Member response in return. What I am most concerned 81 Vision Strategy Business Governance Financial Info Corporate Info about in making evaluations is the need to make honest, unbiased assessments about what exactly is necessary to improve the value of OMRON. Uchiyama: OMRON Board of Directors evaluation system works very well. An area for future improvement is perform evaluations after every meeting. Even now, management themes are assessed after each meeting of the Board of Directors. Other than that, these themes are evaluated only once a year in March. We tend to forget matters addressed in annual evaluations over time. Everything becomes more homogenized. I think it’s best to do evaluations immediately after each meeting of the Board of Directors and use the Hideyo Uchiyama PDCA cycle without delay to improve effectiveness. Audit & Supervisory Board Member (Independent) Kunihiro: My personal theory is that we must Corporate Governance Committee Member wring everything we can from our outside directors. Rather than passively listening to the ideas of outside directors, it may be necessary to take a more aggressive approach in squeezing out every 82 to interfere with day-to-day execution, but to be proactive in providing information and knowledge that I believe to be useful. Kamigama: As an outside director, I focus on and oversee my area of expertise. There is no question that decision-making logic is vitally important. I ask lots of questions based on my own expertise. Once I’m satisfied with the answers, I push from behind for progress. I think that’s our role. It is important to optimize the balance between corporate governance and the dynamic execution. Kunihiro: I am always conscious of the need to point out that there are two sides to everything. Tadashi Kunihiro OMRON has many strengths, but sometimes these Audit & Supervisory Board Member (Independent) can be weaknesses. My task as an Audit & Corporate Governance Committee Member Supervisory Board member is to provide viewpoints that may differ from the typical way of thinking at OMRON. I search for viewpoints that are lacking at OMRON and attempt to shake things up. I last bit of the expertise and experience of outside encourage debate, pushing like Mr. Kamigama directors. The criteria for evaluating the Board of when I am convinced of the result. I go out of my Directors should not be a general yardstick. It way to be skeptical for the sake of the company. In should incorporate the OMRON uniqueness and addition to serving as a check, outside directors detailed focus that we consider so important. I also ensure that OMRON has a firm foundation think in this upcoming era, it will be important to from which to take aggressive leaps into the future. engage in and disclose our own unique measures. Uchiyama: I know this may sound obvious, but I P85 Evaluating the Effectiveness of the Board of Directors am always conscious of the fact that I was appointed by the general meeting of shareholders. Tateishi: The active involvement of outside In other words, I must never neglect to see things directors is the driving force behind the from the stakeholders’ point of view. Further, audits evolution of OMRON’s corporate governance. must always be based on facts. Even as outside Last, I’d like to hear your thoughts about your members of the Audit & Supervisory Board act as a own roles as outside directors and how you are check on the company, I am aware that observing engaging in those roles. Board of Director meeting deliberations to the greatest extent possible allows us to see what is Nishikawa: The most important thing in corporate being discussed in person. In this way, we have a governance is to answer the question of whether better understanding of the underlying background decisions are being made logically. Management is and facts. In addition, our audit report relies heavily a continuous decision-making process, and the on accounting auditors. That’s why I believe we road to decisions has many twists and turns. must help create an environment where the Our role is to watch and carefully determine accounting firm can do its job more easily. whether the process is logical and whether the Kobayashi: OMRON works hard to practice information collected is appropriate. It is also OMRON Principles-based management. For important for us to provide new data and OMRON to make even more aggressive leaps perspectives. As an outside director, my job is not forward, perhaps being less afraid of failure, being 83 Vision Strategy Business Governance Financial Info Corporate Info more brash, and demonstrating a bit more edginess could be beneficial. This is why I like to throw rocks into the pond and stir up the waters. By asking the tough questions about OMRON’s everyday business, I provide back-up for the management team and employees, so they can leap ahead with more boldness. In this respect sense, I ask questions from the view of a general bystander about the status quo at OMRON. I hope this proves useful to OMRON executives. Tateishi: Having outside directors and members of the Audit & Supervisory Board who are skeptical in this way and yet so strongly committed to the company is a tremendous confidence-booster for OMRON. OMRON must never stop the process of evolution, so we can meet the high expectations of our stakeholders. I have a strong and renewed sense of the truth of this concept. Thank you all for your time today. Fumio Tateishi Chairman of the Board CEO Selection Advisory Committee Member 84 Governance Corporate Governance Evaluating the Effectiveness of the Board of Directors 1. Status of Initiatives Towards Improving the Board of Directors’ Effectiveness OMRON Corporation works to improve the board’s effectiveness to realize the sustained enhancement of corporate value. The company works to improve the board's effectiveness to realize the sustained enhancement of corporate value. Such initiatives are undertaken in a cycle of (1) evaluation of the board's effectiveness and (2) determination and implementation of the policy for the operation of the board of directors based on (1). *Please refer to our website for details of Initiatives Towards Improving the Board of Director Effectiveness https://www.omron.com/about/corporate/governance/chart/ 2. Overview of the Results of Evaluation of the Board of Directors’ Effectiveness for Fiscal 2018 (1) Policy for the Operation of the Board of Directors for Fiscal 2018 The Board of Directors shall demonstrate its oversight function to ensure the achievement of the medium-term management plan VG2.0, based on the results of evaluation of the board’s effectiveness for fiscal 2017, with emphasis on the following three areas. Strategies regarding information systems and quality in the medium-term management strategies Ongoing initiatives for human resources strategies and technical strategies Initiatives to address material sustainability issues (materiality) (2) Results of Evaluation of the Board of Directors’ Effectiveness for Fiscal 2018 Based on the favorable results of self-evaluations by Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members and interviews conducted by Chairman of the Board of Directors in terms of evaluation of theme selection, the details of discussions, the status of operation and other matters, the Corporate Governance Committee confirmed that the Board of Directors is sustainably improving the effectiveness of the Board of Directors for sustained enhancement in corporate value and demonstrating its oversight function. The Corporate Governance Committee evaluated each theme in the policy for the operation of the Board of Directors as follows. As for strategies regarding information systems and quality in medium-term management strategies selected as a theme for the first time in the fiscal year under review, consensus on the future direction was fostered after the Board of Directors understood the current situation and received useful suggestions from Directors (Independent) and Audit & Supervisory Board Members (Independent) based on their experience and insights. Regarding human resources strategies and technical strategies, which are ongoing themes from fiscal 2017, the Board of Directors held in-depth discussions through multifaceted question and answer sessions with the understanding that executive organization advances strategy-based initiatives and steadily facilitates their progress and penetration. Regarding initiatives to address material sustainability issues (materiality), an ongoing theme in the third year, the Board of Directors confirmed that such initiatives and engagement activities evolve together and the system to promote the initiatives is functioning properly. The Corporate Governance Committee recognized that themes raised as the policy for the operation of the Board of Directors for fiscal 2018 were organically associated with the keywords “human resources” and “technology,” through discussions about such themes from the standpoint of enhancing mediumto long-term corporate value at the Board of Directors meetings. In addition, Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members actively make comments at the Board of Directors meetings. In particular, Directors (Independent) and Audit & Supervisory Board Members (Independent) make comments and proposals based on their experience and insights. Executive organization takes the opinions and proposals of the Board of Directors seriously and leverages them to further strengthen strategies and initiatives. < Overview of Discussions of Each Theme > Strategies Regarding Information Systems Recognized the issues of the current IT systems and discussed a direction of a company-wide IT system with an eye to next long-term vision, assuming that technological innovation mainly through AI will transform business systems drastically. Strategies Regarding Quality Recognized the issues of the current Quality Management System (QMS), and discussed a direction of improvement for the ideal QMS and the policy for human resource development that is the key to improvement. Human Resources Strategies Confirmed the whole picture of human resources strategies and progress of the main themes, and discussed a theme of future strategies (initiatives mainly to develop human resources for leadership role in charge of management, diverse human resources and self-dependent human resources). 85 Vision Strategy Business Governance Financial Info Corporate Info Technology Strategies Discussed strategies for value creation and technology creation to achieve management of technology, and initiatives to identify and develop transformative human resources to support such strategies. Initiatives to Address Material Sustainability Issues (Materiality) Confirmed the progress of initiatives to achieve targets for material sustainability issues, and also discussed target-setting and initiatives to solve new social issues. 3. Policy for the Operation of the Board of Directors for Fiscal 2019 Based on the evaluation results of the Board’s effectiveness for fiscal 2018, the Board of Directors discussed and determined the policy for the operation of the Board of Directors for the fiscal 2019. Fiscal 2019 is the third year of OMRON’s “VG2.0” medium-term management plan. In this fiscal year, the Board of Directors will fully put its oversight and supervision functions to use, in order to ensure the achievement of VG2.0 goals, while also looking ahead to the next long-term vision set to start in fiscal 2021. < Key Initiatives Set in Operational Policies > Confirmation of the direction for long-term strategies with the upcoming long-term vision in mind Continuous execution of strategies concerning information systems and quality Implementation of measures to deal with changes anticipated to occur in the internal and external business environments in fiscal 2019 and 2020 The company will make efforts in enhancing the Board's effectiveness for sustained improvement in corporate value. 4. Policy for the Operation of the Board of Directors for Fiscal 2016 to 2019 Since the introduction of the effectiveness evaluations of the Board of Directors, the Board of Directors has both determined the policy for the operation of the Board of Directors and exercised its oversight function focusing on operating policies and upon important topics defined therein. As a result of these initiatives, board operations now closely resemble those of a monitoring board, focused on deliberations of material mediumand long-term topics. Topics requiring continued monitoring have been classified as ongoing topics for the next fiscal year. In particular, sustainability initiatives have been categorized as three-year themes, subject to detailed discussions. These discussions included the opinions of many outside directors. The Board of Directors considered these opinions and reflected these suggestions in initiatives. OMRON continues to improve board effectiveness to ensure sustained enhancement of corporate value. Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019 Operating Policies Transfer authority to Exercise oversight Exercise oversight Management strategies to executive officers; conduct functions to ensure the functions to ensure the achieve VG2.0 mediumand long-term achievement of VG2.0 achievement of VG2.0 Demonstrate functions oversight beginning in fiscal 2021 Exercise oversight functions for the next long-term vision Key Initiatives Next medium-term Confirm progress of Strategies for information Confirmation of long-term management plan based on short-term management systems and quality with strategic direction looking mediumto long-term plan respect to medium-term towards the next longmanagement strategy Human resources and management strategies term vision Formulate ESG policies and technology strategies Ongoing initiatives for Continued initiatives create initiatives to execute required for the mediumhuman resources and toward strategies policies term management technology strategies regarding information Strengthen oversight function strategy Initiatives to address systems and quality and transfer authority to Initiatives to address material sustainability Continued initiatives to executive officers material issues issues (materiality) respond to changes in the (materiality) set in internal and external accordance with business environment in sustainability policies fiscal 2019-2020 86 Governance Board of Directors and Auditors As of June 2019 Takehiro Kamigama Kuniko Nishikawa Eizo Kobayashi Outside Director Outside Director Outside Director Personnel Advisory Committee Member Chairman of the Compensation Advisory Chairman of the Personnel Advisory CEO Selection Advisory Committee Committee Committee Member Vice Chairman of the Corporate Chairman of the CEO Selection Advisory Compensation Advisory Committee Governance Committee Committee Member Personnel Advisory Committee Member Chairman of the Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Committee CEO Selection Advisory Committee Committee Member Member Compensation Advisory Committee Member Koji Nitto Kiichiro Miyata Yoshihito Yamada Director, Senior Managing Executive Director, Senior Managing Executive President and CEO Officer, CFO Officer, CTO Compensation Advisory Committee Personnel Advisory Committee Member Member 87 Vision Strategy Business Governance Financial Info Corporate Info Hideyo Uchiyama Tadashi Kunihiro Kiichiro Kondo Kiyoshi Yoshikawa Audit & Supervisory Board Audit & Supervisory Board Audit & Supervisory Board Audit & Supervisory Board Member (Independent) Member (Independent) Member Member Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Committee Member Committee Member Fumio Tateishi Satoshi Ando Chairman Director CEO Selection Advisory Vice Chairman of the Personnel Committee Member Advisory Committee Vice Chairman of the CEO Selection Advisory Committee Vice Chairman of the Compensation Advisory Committee 88 Governance Directors, Audit & Supervisory Board Members, and Honorary Chairman As of June 2019 Directors Chairman Fumio Tateishi Director Satoshi Ando Aug. 1975 Joined OMRON Apr. 1977 Joined The Bank of Tokyo, Ltd. (now Jun. 1997 Director MUFG Bank, Ltd.) Jun. 1999 Managing Executive Officer July 2003 Branch Manager of Jakarta Branch, Jun. 2001 Senior General Manager, Corporate The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Strategic Planning HQ Ltd. (Resigned in June 2007) Jun. 2003 Executive Officer and Executive Jun. 2007 Audit & Supervisory Board Member Vice President; President, Industrial (Independent), OMRON Automation Business Company Jun. 2011 Executive Officer and Senior General Jun. 2008 Director and Executive Vice Manager, Investor Relations HQ Chairman Mar. 2015 Senior General Manager, Global Jun. 2013 Chairman of the Board (to present) Investor Relations & Corporate Communications HQ Apr. 2015 Managing Executive Officer Jun. 2017 Director (to present) President and CEO Yoshihito Yamada Outside Director Eizo Kobayashi Apr. 1984 Joined OMRON Apr. 1972 Joined ITOCHU Corporation Jun. 2008 Executive Officer; Representative Jun. 2000 Executive Officer, ITOCHU Corporation Director and President, OMRON Apr. 2002 Managing Executive Officer, HEALTHCARE Co., Ltd. ITOCHU Corporation Mar. 2010 Senior General Manager, Corporate Jun. 2003 Representative Director and Managing Strategic Planning HQ Director, ITOCHU Corporation Jun. 2010 Managing Executive Officer Apr. 2004 Representative Director and Senior Jun. 2011 Representative Director and Managing Director, ITOCHU Corporation President (to present) Jun. 2004 President and CEO, ITOCHU Corporation Apr. 2010 Chairman and Representative Director, ITOCHU Corporation Jun. 2011 Chairman, ITOCHU Corporation Jun. 2013 Outside Director, OMRON (to present) Jun. 2016 Chairman, ITOCHU Corporation Apr. 2018 Senior Representative, ITOCHU Corporation (to present) Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer, CTO Outside Director Kuniko Nishikawa Kiichiro Miyata Apr. 1986 Joined Citibank N.A. Apr. 1985 Joined Tateisi Institute of Life Feb. 1996 Joined A.T. Kearney, Inc. Science, Inc. (now OMRON Sep. 2000 President & CEO, Supernurse Co. Ltd. HEALTHCARE Co., Ltd.) Aug. 2010 Established Firststar Healthcare Co. Mar. 2010 Representative Director and Ltd., President & CEO (to present) President of OMRON HEALTHCARE Jun. 2013 President, Benesse MCM Corp. Co., Ltd. (Retired in March 2015) Jun. 2015 Outside Director, OMRON Jun. 2010 Executive Officer (to present) Jun. 2012 Managing Executive Officer, OMRON May 2017 Chief Executive Officer, FRONTEO Apr. 2015 Chief Technology Officer (CTO) and Healthcare, Inc. (to present) Senior General Manager of Technology & Intellectual Property HQ (to present) Apr. 2017 Senior Managing Director (to present) Jun. 2017 Representative Director (to present) Apr. 2018 Senior General Manager, Innovation Exploring Initiative HQ (to present) Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer, CFO Outside Director Takehiro Kamigama Koji Nitto Apr. 1981 Joined TDK Corporation Apr. 1983 Joined OMRON Jun. 2002 Corporate Officer, TDK Corporation Mar. 2011 Senior General Manager, Global Jun. 2003 Senior Vice President, TDK Corporation Resource Management HQ Jun. 2004 Director & Executive Vice President, Jun. 2011 Executive Officer TDK Corporation Mar. 2013 Senior General Manager, Global Jun. 2006 President & Representative SCM and IT Innovation HQ Director, TDK Corporation Apr. 2013 Managing Executive Officer Jun. 2016 Chairman & Representative Mar. 2014 Senior General Manager, Global Director, TDK Corporation Strategy HQ (to present) Jun. 2017 Outside Director, OMRON Apr. 2014 Senior Managing Executive Officer (to present) (to present) Jun. 2018 Mission Executive, TDK Corporation Jun. 2014 Director (to present) (to present) Apr. 2017 Chief Financial Officer (CFO) (to present) 89 Vision Strategy Business Governance Financial Info Corporate Info Audit & Supervisory Board Members Audit & Supervisory Board Member Audit & Supervisory Board Member (Independent) Kiichiro Kondo Hideyo Uchiyama Apr. 1977 Joined Mitsui Ocean Development Nov. 1975 Joined Arthur Young & Company & Engineering Co., Ltd. Dec. 1979 Joined Asahi Accounting Company Jan. 1988 Joined Mitsui Trust and Banking (now KPMG AZSA LLC) Company, Limited (now Sumitomo Mar. 1980 Registered as Certified Public Mitsui Trust Bank, Limited) Accountant Apr. 1999 Joined OMRON July 1999 Representative Partner, KPMG Mar. 2007 Senior General Manager, Public AZSA LLC Solutions Business Department, May 2002 Board Member, KPMG AZSA LLC Social Systems Solutions and Jun. 2006 Executive Board Member, KPMG Service Business Company AZSA LLC Jun. 2007 Executive Officer Jun. 2010 Managing Partner, KPMG AZSA Apr. 2011 President and CEO, OMRON LLC, Chairman, KPMG Japan SOCIAL SOLUTIONS Co., Ltd. Sep. 2011 Chairman, KPMG Asia Pacific Jun. 2011 Managing Executive Officer Oct. 2013 CEO, KPMG Japan Jun. 2015 Audit & Supervisory Board Sep. 2015 Executive Advisor, ASAHI Tax Member (to present) Corporation (to present) Jun. 2016 Audit & Supervisory Board Member (Independent), OMRON (to present) Audit & Supervisory Board Member Audit & Supervisory Board Member (Independent) Kiyoshi Yoshikawa Tadashi Kunihiro Apr. 1983 Joined OMRON Apr. 1986 Registered as attorney with the Mar.2010 Senior General Manager, Monozukuri Daini Tokyo Bar Association; Joined Innovation HQ Nasu & Iguchi Law Office (now Senior General Manager, Jan. 1994 Established Kunihiro Law Office Global Manufacturing Innovation HQ) (now T. Kunihiro & Co. Attorneys-atJun. 2010 Executive Officer Law) Apr. 2016 Managing Executive Officer Jun. 2017 Audit & Supervisory Board Member Jun. 2019 Audit & Supervisory Board Member (Independent), OMRON (to present) (to present) Honorary Chairman Honorary Chairman Yoshio Tateishi Apr. 1963 Joined OMRON May 1973 Director Jun. 1976 Managing Director Jun. 1983 Senior Managing Director Jun. 1987 President and CEO Jun. 2003 Representative Director and Chairman of the Board May 2007 Chairman, Kyoto Chamber of Commerce and Industry (to present) Jun. 2011 Honorary Chairman (to present) 90 Governance Executive Officers President Yoshihito Yamada CEO Executive Vice President Yutaka Miyanaga Company President, Industrial Automation Company Senior Managing Executive Officers Kiichiro Miyata Koji Nitto CTO and Senior General Manager, CFO and Senior General Manager, Technology & Intellectual Property HQ Global Strategy HQ and Senior General Manager, Innovation Exploring Initiative HQ Managing Executive Officers Katsuhiro Wada Nigel Blakeway President and CEO, Chairman and CEO, OMRON MANAGEMENT OMRON AUTOMOTIVE ELECTRONICS CENTER OF AMERICA, INC. CO., LTD. and Chairman, OMRON MANAGEMENT CENTER OF EUROPE and Chairman, OMRON MANAGEMENT CENTER OF ASIA PACIFIC Shizuto Yukumoto Seigo Kinugawa Company President, CEO, OMRON EUROPE B.V., Electronic and Mechanical Components Industrial Automation Company Company, and Senior General Manager, Business Development HQ Toshio Hosoi Masahiko Tomita President and CEO, Senior General Manager, OMRON SOCIAL SOLUTIONS Co., Ltd. Global Human Resources and Administration HQ Isao Ogino Junta Tsujinaga President and CEO, Senior General Manager, OMRON HEALTHCARE Co., Ltd. Product Business Division HQ, Industrial Automation Company 91 Vision Strategy Business Governance Financial Info Corporate Info Executive Officers Goshi Oba Kenji Eda Chairman and President, Senior General Manager, OMRON INDUSTRIAL AUTOMATION Global Manufacturing Innovation HQ (CHINA) CO., LTD. Takayoshi Oue Shinji Fukui Senior General Manager, Senior General Manager, Global Finance and Accounting HQ Technology Development Division HQ, Industrial Automation Company Takashi Kitagawa Masako Kubo Senior General Manager, President and CEO, Board of Directors Office OMRON EXPERTLINK CO., LTD. Munenori Odake Seiji Takeda Senior General Manager, General Manager, Sales & Marketing Division HQ, Corporate Planning Dept., Industrial Automation Company Global Strategy HQ Shuji Tamaki Taisuke Tateishi Senior General Manager, Senior General Manager, Global Risk Management and Legal HQ Environmental Solutions Business HQ Makoto Ota Katsuhiro Shikata President and CEO, President and CEO, OMRON RELAY & DEVICES Corporation, OMRON FIELD ENGINEERING CO., LTD. and Senior General Manager, Production Division HQ, Electronic and Mechanical Components Company Tsutomu Igaki Virendra Shelar Senior General Manager, President, OMRON MANAGEMENT Global Investor & Brand CENTER OF ASIA PACIFIC, Communications HQ and General Manager, Global Human Resource Strategy Dept. Jian Xu Masayuki Yamamoto China Manufacturing Innovation Project Senior General Manager, Executive, Global Manufacturing Strategy Planning Division HQ, Innovation HQ, Industrial Automation Company and President and CEO, SHANGHAI OMRON CONTROL COMPONENTS CO., LTD. 92 Financial Info Financial Section (U.S. GAAP) At a Glance Industrial Automation Business (IAB) NetNet Sales Sales / Operating / Operating Income Income / Operating / Operating IncomeIncome MarginMargin Capital Capital Expenditures Expenditures / Depreciation / Depreciation andand Amortization Amortization / R&D / R&D Expenses Expenses Net Sales Net SalesOperating Operating IncomeOperating Income Operating Income Income Margin Margin (right(right axis)axis) CapitalCapital Expenditures Depreciation ExpendituresDepreciation and Amortization and AmortizationR&D Expenses R&D Expenses (Billions (Billions of yen) of yen) (%) (%)(Billions (Billions of yen)of yen) 396.1396.1 391.8391.8 400 400 378.0378.0 20 20 25 25 23.3 23.3 331.8331.8 336.0336.0 331.0331.0 16.1%16.1% 16.7%16.7% 21.0 21.0 18.7%18.7% 20 20 18.2 18.2 300 300 16.5%16.5% 15.7%15.7% 16.4 16.4 14.3% 14.3% 15.3 15.3 15 15 200 200 10 10 10 10 9.3 9.3 7.4 7.4 5.3 5.3 4.5 4.5 100 100 74.0 74.0 62.9 62.9 63.0 63.0 4.2 4.2 6.9 6.9 54.6 54.6 47.9 47.9 52.0 52.0 5 5 5.2 5.2 3.5 3.5 4.0 4.0 4.2 4.2 0 0 0 0 0 0 FY FY 14 14 15 15 16 16 17 17 18 18 19 19 FY FY 14 14 15 15 16 16 17 17 18 18 (Forecast) (Forecast) Electronic and Mechanical Components Business (EMC) NetNet Sales Sales / Operating / Operating Income Income / Operating / Operating IncomeIncome MarginMargin Capital Capital Expenditures Expenditures / Depreciation / Depreciation andand Amortization Amortization / R&D / R&D Expenses Expenses Net Sales Net SalesOperating Operating IncomeOperating Income Operating Income Income Margin Margin (right(right axis)axis) CapitalCapital Expenditures Depreciation ExpendituresDepreciation and Amortization and AmortizationR&D Expenses R&D Expenses (Billions (Billions of yen) of yen) (%) (%)(Billions (Billions of yen)of yen) 120 120 15 15 14 14 103.9103.9 103.7103.7 104.4104.4 12.0 12.0 99.7 99.7 98.0 98.0 93.9 93.9 12.0%12.0% 12 12 10.0 10.0 90 90 10 10 9.5 9.5 8.9 8.9 10 10 10.0%10.0% 8.2%8.2% 8.7%8.7% 7.9 7.9 7.7 7.7 7.6 7.6 9.8%9.8% 8 8 60 60 8.2%8.2% 8.0 8.0 8.3 8.3 6 6 6.5 6.5 5 5 4 4 5.4 5.4 4.9 4.9 5.3 5.3 5.1 5.1 30 30 4.6 4.6 10.2 10.2 8.5 8.5 9.4 9.4 12.5 12.5 8.2 8.2 8.5 8.5 2 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 FY FY 14 14 15 15 16 16 17 17 18 18 19 19 FY FY 14 14 15 15 16 16 17 17 18 18 (Forecast) (Forecast) Automotive Electronic Components Business (AEC) NetNet Sales Sales / Operating / Operating Income Income / Operating / Operating IncomeIncome MarginMargin Capital Capital Expenditures Expenditures / Depreciation / Depreciation andand Amortization Amortization / R&D / R&D Expenses Expenses Net Sales Net SalesOperating Operating IncomeOperating Income Operating Income Income Margin Margin (right(right axis)axis) CapitalCapital Expenditures Depreciation ExpendituresDepreciation and Amortization and AmortizationR&D Expenses R&D Expenses (Billions (Billions of yen) of yen) (%) (%)(Billions (Billions of yen)of yen) 150 150 140.0140.0 10 10 12 12 137.9137.9 10.5 10.5 132.1132.1 131.2131.2 130.5130.5 124.0124.0 9.3 9.3 9.2 9.2 120 120 10 10 8.5 8.5 8.4 8.4 8 8 90 90 6.7%6.7% 6.5 6.5 6.9 6.9 6.2 6.2 4.8%4.8% 5.8 5.8 5.2%5.2% 5.4%5.4% 5 5 6 6 5.2 5.2 60 60 4.4%4.4% 3.2%3.2% 5.3 5.3 4.9 4.9 5.2 5.2 4 4 4.7 4.7 5.1 5.1 30 30 2 2 9.2 9.2 7.3 7.3 7.1 7.1 5.8 5.8 6.3 6.3 4.0 4.0 0 0 0 0 0 0 FY FY 14 14 15 15 16 16 17 17 18 18 19 19 FY FY 14 14 15 15 16 16 17 17 18 18 (Forecast) (Forecast) Financial Section Contents 95 | Financial Results Fiscal 2018 in Review For more information, please refer to the Company’s audited annual financial report: 100 | Financial Results Outlook for Fiscal 2019 https://www.omron.com/about/annual/index.html 93 Vision Strategy Business Governance Financial Info Corporate Info *We revised business classifications, reclassifying certain operations under Other Businesses to the EMC and other segments beginning with the 2018 fiscal year. Accordingly, we reclassified results for fiscal 2017 under this new categorization for presentation herein. *We revised business classifications in October 2018, reclassifying certain operations under the Other Businesses segment to the SSB segment. Accordingly, we reclassified consolidated results for the fiscal year ended March 2017 and for the first six months of the fiscal year ended March 2018 under this new categorization for presentation herein. *Fiscal 2019 forecasts are as published on April 24, 2019. Social Systems, Solutions and Service Business (SSB) NetNet SalesSales / Operating / Operating IncomeIncome / Operating / Operating IncomeIncome MarginMargin Capital Capital Expenditures Expenditures / Depreciation / Depreciation andand Amortization Amortization / R&D / R&D Expenses Expenses Net Sales Net SalesOperating Operating IncomeOperating Income Operating IncomeIncome Margin Margin (right(right axis)axis) CapitalCapital Expenditures Depreciation ExpendituresDepreciation and Amortization and AmortizationR&D Expenses R&D Expenses (Billions of yen) of yen) (Billions 83.0 83.0 (%) (%)(Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) 80 80 75.0 75.0 10 10 3.0 3.0 2.8 2.8 70.4 70.4 70.3 70.3 66.4 66.4 61.9 61.9 7.7%7.7% 7.8%7.8% 2.5 2.5 60 60 2.1 2.1 2.2 2.2 2.1 2.1 2.0 2.0 1.8 1.8 1.9 1.9 6.9%6.9% 1.7 1.7 1.6 1.6 1.6 1.6 6.0%6.0% 1.4 1.4 40 40 5 5 1.5 1.5 4.6%4.6% 1.4 1.4 1.5 1.5 1.4 1.4 1.3 1.3 3.6%3.6% 1.0 1.0 1.2 1.2 20 20 0.5 0.5 3.7 3.7 4.8 4.8 5.8 5.8 6.5 6.5 3.1 3.1 2.5 2.5 0 0 0 0 0 0 FY FY 14 14 15 15 16 16 17 17 18 18 19 19 FY FY 14 14 15 15 16 16 17 17 18 18 (Forecast) (Forecast) Healthcare Business (HCB) NetNet SalesSales / Operating / Operating IncomeIncome / Operating / Operating IncomeIncome MarginMargin Capital Capital Expenditures Expenditures / Depreciation / Depreciation andand Amortization Amortization / R&D / R&D Expenses Expenses Net Sales Net SalesOperating Operating IncomeOperating Income Operating IncomeIncome Margin Margin (right(right axis)axis) CapitalCapital Expenditures Depreciation ExpendituresDepreciation and Amortization and AmortizationR&D Expenses R&D Expenses (Billions of yen) of yen) (Billions 123.0123.0 (%) (%)(Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) 120 120 115.5115.5 12 12 8 8 108.1108.1 108.5108.5 100.6100.6 101.3101.3 11.3% 11.3% 11.4% 11.4% 6.7 6.7 6.7 6.7 10.3% 10.3% 6.1 6.1 6.2 6.2 90 90 6 6 5.5 5.5 8.4%8.4% 3.9 3.9 3.8 3.8 4.0 4.0 60 60 6.5%6.5% 6.7%6.7% 6 6 4 4 3.3 3.3 3.2 3.2 3.3 3.3 3.0 3.0 2.8 2.8 2 2 2.8 2.8 30 30 2.2 2.2 11.2 11.2 13.0 13.0 14.0 14.0 6.5 6.5 7.3 7.3 8.5 8.5 0 0 0 0 0 0 FY FY 14 14 15 15 16 16 17 17 18 18 19 19 FY FY 14 14 15 15 16 16 17 17 18 18 (Forecast) (Forecast) Other Businesses NetNet SalesSales / Operating / Operating IncomeIncome (Loss)(Loss)/ Operating / Operating Income Income Margin Margin Capital Capital Expenditures Expenditures / Depreciation / Depreciation andand Amortization Amortization / R&D / R&D Expenses Expenses Net Sales Net SalesOperating Operating Income Income (Loss)(Loss)Operating Operating Income Margin Income (right(right Margin axis)axis) CapitalCapital ExpendituresDepreciation Expenditures Depreciation and Amortization and AmortizationR&D Expenses R&D Expenses (Billions (Billions of yen) of yen) (%) (%)(Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) 120 120 12 12 8 8 101.4101.4 6.9 6.9 10.2%10.2% 90 90 6 6 5.3 5.3 70.2 70.2 68.5 68.5 5.5 5.5 60 60 6 6 3.7 3.7 3.7 3.7 44.4 44.4 4 4 4.6 4.6 41.7 41.7 32.0 32.0 30 30 3.1 3.1 1.7 1.7 2.0 2.0 2 2 2.5 2.5 10.3 10.3 0.9 0.9 0.9 0.9 0 0 0 0 1.4 1.4 (1.9) (1.9) (1.2) (1.2) (0.5) (0.5) (1.0) (1.0) 0.8 0.8 0.7 0.7 FY FY (3.5) (3.5) 0 0 14 14 15 15 16 16 17 17 18 18 19 19 FY FY 14 14 15 15 16 16 17 17 18 18 (Forecast) (Forecast) 102 | Consolidated Balance Sheets 104 | Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 106 | C onsolidated Statements of Cash Flows 103 | Consolidated Statements of Income 105 | Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity 94 Financial Info Financial Results Fiscal 2018 in Review Consolidated Earnings weaker performance in the Industrial Automation Business and the Electronic and Mechanical Components Business. However, growth in the Fiscal 2018 was our second year operating under the Healthcare Business and the Social Systems, Solutions OMRON VG2.0 medium-term management plan, and Service Business compensated for weakness in defined by the basic policy of Creating Change: other areas. Accelerate growth and transform profit structure through innovation. During the year, we increased Gross Profit Margin, SG&A Expenses, and R&D investment towards corporate growth driven by the Expenses focus domains of the Industrial Automation Business Gross profit margin for fiscal 2018 was 41.2%, down and the Healthcare Business. We also worked to create 0.4 points. Selling, general and administrative expenses innovation driven by social needs. In the second half of were up ¥7.2 billion to ¥219.7 billion, mainly due to the fiscal year, revenues in the Industrial Automation completion of the growth investment planned at the Business, Electronic and Mechanical Components beginning of the fiscal year. Research and development Business, and Automotive Electronic Components expenses fell ¥1.3 billion year on year to ¥57.8 billion, Business declined as a result of trade friction between mainly due to detailed selection in research and the United States and China. However, the Healthcare development projects. Business and Social Systems, Solutions and Service Business achieved steady growth. Operating Income, Income before Income Taxes and Equity in Earnings of Affiliates, and Net Income Consolidated Statements of Income Attributable to OMRON Shareholders OMRON Group operating income for the year was Net Sales ¥76.6 billion (11.2% decrease), while our operating OMRON Group net sales for fiscal 2018 amounted to income margin was 8.9% (1.1-point decrease). Income ¥859.5 billion, down 0.1% from the prior year. Demand before income taxes (excluding other income) for smartphones and semiconductor-related products amounted to ¥75.4 billion (9.5% decrease), while net slowed, while the global downturn in the manufacturing income attributable to OMRON shareholders came in industry over the second half of the fiscal year led to at ¥54.3 billion for the year (14.0% decrease). Consolidated Operating Income Analysis (YoY) Added-value up (Billions of yen) +6.1 86.3 Forex impact Fixed 76.6 -2.7 manufacturing cost up SG&A up R&D down -5.0 -9.3 +1.2 Gross profit +1.1 FY2017 Actual FY2018 Actual Review of Operations by Business Segment Industrial Automation Business (IAB) We engaged in sales activities to automobile and food savings in line with advanced technology and local industries that leveraged our extensive product line-up production for local consumption. Our sales efforts and ability to offer solutions. These activities responded yielded results driving increased sales to this market. In to increased needs for capital investment and labor contrast, sales to the digital industry were lower due to 95 Vision Strategy Business Governance Financial Info Corporate Info slower demand for capital investment related to application development in cooperation with customer smartphones and semiconductors, as well as the global manufacturing locations. We now have 35 centers in downturn in the manufacturing industry over the operation worldwide, 27 more locations than in 2016. second half of the fiscal year. These results offset each At the same time, we made a 20% increase (compared other, leading to segment net sales of ¥391.8 billion, to fiscal 2016) in the number of sales engineers who down 1.1% year on year. We did, however, complete provide support for application installations at customer growth-related investments in line with our original manufacturing locations. In our production centers, we plan, building a foundation of technologies, products, enhanced our production capacity necessary for future infrastructure, and other assets upon which we will growth. Continued investments in growth focused on accelerate into the future. Specifically, we expanded the medium to long term, resulting in a significant 15% the number of Automation Centers that carry out decline in operating income, down to ¥62.9 billion. (Billions of yen) FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 (Forecast) Net sales 331.8 336.0 331.0 396.1 391.8 378.0 Japan 126.7 130.5 133.5 152.0 154.7 150.5 Americas 47.6 40.4 30.3 35.3 35.0 32.0 Europe 67.8 69.3 65.6 77.7 79.9 75.0 Greater China 55.0 58.3 59.6 77.7 78.2 75.0 Asia Pacific 34.1 36.9 41.3 53.1 43.8 45.0 Direct exports 0.7 0.6 0.6 0.4 0.3 0.5 Operating income 54.6 47.9 52.0 74.0 62.9 63.0 Operating income margin 16.5% 14.3% 15.7% 18.7% 16.1% 16.7% R&D expenses 15.3 18.2 16.4 21.0 23.3 — Depreciation and amortization 3.5 4.0 4.2 5.2 6.9 — Capital expenditures 4.2 5.3 4.5 9.3 7.4 — Electronic and Mechanical Components Business (EMC) Demand in the consumer and commercial products We continued with investment in improving productivity industry was strong, driven by a favorable business aimed at optimizing fixed manufacturing costs to environment in the Americas and Europe, as we accelerate automation in manufacturing processes, accurately identified customer needs. Buying sentiment reduce costs, and deliver high-value products to our slowed in automotive-related industries in China. At the customers. These measures included investing in same time, demand in the amusement industry production locations and consolidating production lines. continued to contract. As a result, segment net sales As a result of these measures, segment operating amounted to ¥99.7 billion, a 4.5% decrease year on income decreased to ¥8.2 billion, 34.5% lower year on year. Profits were affected negatively by lower net sales year. to external customers and OMRON Group businesses. (Billions of yen) FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 (Forecast) Net sales 103.9 103.7 93.9 104.4 99.7 98.0 Japan 23.9 23.2 22.5 24.3 21.6 21.5 Americas 18.1 19.9 16.3 17.5 17.9 17.0 Europe 15.9 16.1 14.8 16.9 17.7 17.5 Greater China 35.0 33.6 29.0 31.0 30.4 30.0 Asia Pacific 10.1 10.4 11.3 14.5 11.9 12.0 Direct exports 0.9 0.5 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.0 Operating income 10.2 8.5 9.4 12.5 8.2 8.5 Operating income margin 9.8% 8.2% 10.0% 12.0% 8.2% 8.7% R&D expenses 5.4 4.9 4.6 5.3 5.1 — Depreciation and amortization 8.0 8.3 7.9 7.7 7.6 — Capital expenditures 9.5 8.9 6.5 10.0 12.0 — *We revised business classifications, reclassifying certain operations under Other Businesses to the EMC and other segments beginning with the 2018 fiscal year. Accordingly, we reclassified results for fiscal 2017 under this new categorization for presentation herein. 96 Financial Info Automotive Electronic Components Business (AEC) Model changes in vehicles carrying OMRON products result, net sales in the segment amounted to ¥130.5 resulted in weak demand in the Americas, Europe, and billion (0.5% decrease) for the year. The segment China. On the other hand, demand in Asia was strong, recorded an increase in operating income to ¥6.3 billion supported by increasing automobile production and (8.7% increase) due to improved productivity. rising needs for motorcycle-related products. As a (Billions of yen) FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 (Forecast) Net sales 137.9 140.0 132.1 131.2 130.5 124.0 Japan 25.9 21.1 19.0 17.3 18.2 18.5 Americas 39.3 47.6 43.9 41.9 38.5 38.5 Europe 3.6 4.6 3.9 2.8 2.1 1.5 Greater China 29.9 27.4 28.0 28.6 23.5 20.5 Asia Pacific 32.2 31.9 30.1 33.3 42.0 39.5 Direct exports 7.1 7.3 7.2 7.3 6.2 5.5 Operating income 9.2 7.3 7.1 5.8 6.3 4.0 Operating income margin 6.7% 5.2% 5.4% 4.4% 4.8% 3.2% R&D expenses 8.5 9.3 9.2 10.5 8.4 — Depreciation and amortization 4.7 5.3 4.9 5.2 5.1 — Capital expenditures 6.5 6.9 5.2 5.8 6.2 — Social Systems, Solutions and Service Business (SSB) The SSB segment experienced strong demand for billion in net sales, an increase of 6.7% year on year. upgrades in our Public Transportation Business and our Operating income increased to ¥5.8 billion (19.5% Traffic and Road Management Systems Business. In increase), mainly due to higher net sales and improved response, we proposed solutions tailored to the needs productivity. of our clients. As a result, the segment recorded ¥75.0 (Billions of yen) FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 (Forecast) Net sales 66.4 70.4 61.9 70.3 75.0 83.0 Japan 65.1 68.6 61.3 69.4 73.8 81.5 Americas 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Europe 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Greater China 0.3 0.6 0.3 0.3 0.4 0.5 Asia Pacific 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Direct exports 1.1 1.2 0.3 0.6 0.8 1.0 Operating income 3.1 2.5 3.7 4.8 5.8 6.5 Operating income margin 4.6% 3.6% 6.0% 6.9% 7.7% 7.8% R&D expenses 2.1 2.2 1.8 2.1 2.8 — Depreciation and amortization 1.4 1.6 1.4 1.3 1.2 — Capital expenditures 1.7 1.5 1.4 1.6 1.9 — *We revised business classifications in October 2018, reclassifying certain operations under the Other Businesses segment to the SSB segment. Accordingly, we reclassified consolidated results for the fiscal year ended March 2017 and for the first six months of the fiscal year ended March 2018 under this new categorization for presentation herein. 97 Vision Strategy Business Governance Financial Info Corporate Info Healthcare Business (HCB) Blood pressure monitors market has shown firm growth, reaching ¥115.5 billion in net sales (6.5% demand globally. The HCB segment stepped up increase year on year). Although the segment incurred promotions through online channels mainly in China, higher R&D expenses for future growth, segment profit Japan, and the Americas. We also purchased 3A Health grew to ¥13.0 billion (16.3% increase year on year), Care in Italy, which develops and manufactures mainly due to higher sales and productivity nebulizers. As a result, the segment recorded steady improvements. (Billions of yen) FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 (Forecast) Net sales 100.6 108.1 101.3 108.5 115.5 123.0 Japan 31.4 31.1 28.9 26.0 26.9 28.5 Americas 18.6 23.1 21.7 23.8 23.6 24.5 Europe 21.2 19.2 18.3 21.0 22.7 23.0 Greater China 22.4 25.4 23.1 26.8 31.0 34.5 Asia Pacific 6.6 8.9 9.0 10.3 10.7 12.0 Direct exports 0.5 0.5 0.3 0.6 0.6 0.5 Operating income 6.5 7.3 8.5 11.2 13.0 14.0 Operating income margin 6.5% 6.7% 8.4% 10.3% 11.3% 11.4% R&D expenses 5.5 6.1 6.2 6.7 6.7 — Depreciation and amortization 3.3 3.8 3.3 3.0 2.8 — Capital expenditures 3.9 2.8 2.2 3.2 4.0 — Other Businesses The Environmental Solutions Business reported strong a decrease of 5.9% year on year. The segment reported performance for the year, experiencing growing operating loss of ¥0.5 billion, a 0.7 billion improvement demand for storage battery systems. Our Backlights compared to the previous fiscal year. This result was Business saw weak sales due to further business mainly due to higher Environmental Solutions Business optimization initiatives. As a result, the businesses sales together with optimization of fixed expenses in segment as a whole recorded ¥41.7 billion in net sales, our Backlights Business. (Billions of yen) FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 (Forecast) Net sales 101.4 70.2 68.5 44.4 41.7 32.0 Japan 59.8 51.2 60.2 35.5 35.5 30.5 Americas 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Europe 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Greater China 38.2 17.1 7.3 8.5 6.1 1.5 Asia Pacific 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Direct exports 3.4 1.9 1.0 0.4 0.1 0.0 Operating income 10.3 (3.5) (1.9) (1.2) (0.5) (1.0) Operating income margin 10.2% — — — — — R&D expenses 5.5 4.6 3.7 3.7 2.0 — Depreciation and amortization 2.5 3.1 1.7 0.8 0.7 — Capital expenditures 6.9 5.3 1.4 0.9 0.9 — *We revised business classifications, reclassifying certain operations under Other Businesses to the EMC and other segments beginning with the 2018 fiscal year. Accordingly, we reclassified results for fiscal 2017 under this new categorization for presentation herein. *We revised business classifications in October 2018, reclassifying certain operations under the Other Businesses segment to the SSB segment. Accordingly, we reclassified consolidated results for the fiscal year ended March 2017 and for the first six months of the fiscal year ended March 2018 under this new categorization for presentation herein. 98 Financial Info Review of Financial Condition result, the balance of cash and cash equivalents at March 31, 2019, amounted to ¥110.3 billion, a decrease of ¥2.8 billion compared to the end of the prior Total assets at the end of fiscal 2018 amounted to consolidated fiscal year. ¥749.9 billion, an increase of ¥4.9 billion compared to the end of the prior fiscal year. This increase stems mainly from an increase over the previous fiscal year in Dividend Policy property, plant, and equipment. Total liabilities increased ¥6.0 billion to ¥243.6 billion. Our policy for profit distribution is to aim for sustainable Current liabilities decreased ¥11.3 billion to ¥171.5 corporate value growth, and thus OMRON prioritizes billion from the previous fiscal year, mainly due to investment necessary for future business expansion. decreases in notes and accounts payable–trade and These investments include research and development, accrued expenses. However, termination and capital investments, mergers and acquisitions, and retirement benefits increased ¥16.0 billion year on year other investments for future growth. Having secured to ¥58.3 billion. internal reserves, the company makes decisions Total net assets decreased ¥1.1 billion compared to the regarding ongoing profit distribution to shareholders in end of the prior fiscal year to ¥506.3 billion. This result consideration of capital efficiency. was due to share buybacks and other factors in excess The company has established a guideline of of net income attributable to OMRON shareholders for approximately 30% in payout ratio and approximately the fiscal year. Our shareholders’ equity ratio was 67.2 3% of DOE for profit distributions for fiscal years 2017 percent, down 0.7 points compared to 67.9 percent at through 2020 covered by our medium-term the end of the prior fiscal year. Despite this result, the management plan. Our full-year dividend for fiscal 2018 company has maintained a firm financial foundation was ¥84 per share. As a result, our dividend payout capable of handling aggressive investments and ratio was 32.2%, a 6.6-point increase year on year. Our changes in market conditions. dividend on equity ratio was 3.5%, a 0.2-point increase compared to the prior fiscal year. Capital Expenditures The OMRON Group made ¥41.9 billion in total capital investments during fiscal 2018, representing a 7.7% increase compared to the prior fiscal year. While ensuring careful deliberation on investments, the Group conducted active capital investment targeting future growth. Cash Flows Net cash provided by operating activities for the fiscal year amounted to ¥71.2 billion (a decrease in cash provided of ¥2.4 billion compared to the prior fiscal year). This result was mainly due to the recording of net income and amortization and depreciation, which more than offset decreases in notes and accounts payabletrade and accrued expenses. Net cash used in investing activities was ¥35.0 billion, representing a decrease in net cash used of ¥20.9 billion compared to the prior fiscal year. This result was mainly due to capital expenditures for investments in production capacity increases and future growth. Free cash flows (cash provided by operating activities less cash used in investing activities) amounted to ¥36.3 billion, an increase of ¥18.5 billion compared to the prior fiscal year. Net cash used in financing activities was ¥40.8 billion, which was an increase in net cash used of ¥7.7 billion compared to the prior fiscal year. This result was mainly due to dividends paid and stock buybacks. As a 99 Vision Strategy Business Governance Financial Info Corporate Info Outlook for Fiscal 2019 Consolidated Earnings the previous fiscal year. We are also aiming for 8% or higher in the important ROIC and ROE indicators. This earnings plan includes fiscal year projections for the In fiscal 2019, the OMRON Group intends to secure a Automotive Electronics Components Business (AEC). platform to soundly establish a self-driven growth We announced the signing of a stock transfer structure in times of adversity. The subtitle for this agreement for the AEC to the Nidec Corporation Group policy is Strengthen earning capacity, growing on April 16, 2019. To build long-term competitive capability, and responsiveness to change -. The global advantage, the OMRON Group concentrates economy in fiscal 2018 saw increased instability and management resources in specific business domains. uncertainties in the business environment. We expect Our decision to divest the Automotive Electronic continued challenges in the markets addressed by our Components Business, which we have cultivated over Industrial Automation Business, Electronic and nearly 40 years, reflects our future-oriented competitive Mechanical Components Business, and Automotive and growth strategies. We plan to use the cash Electronic Components Business. On the other hand, acquired from this sale for investments for further we see this headwind as an opportunity for the growth. establishment of a self-driven growth structure in the OMRON Group. First, we intend to increase our earning power. We plan to reach higher levels of profits for the OMRON Group Industrial Automation Business (IAB) through consistent improvements in gross profit margins and more efficient use of SG&A expenses. We We project continued firm demand for capital will be selective in allocating the resources generated investment related to autonomous driving and ecoby these initiatives to create sustainable growth. We friendly cars in the automobile industry. We also expect are also working to maximize the benefits gained from ongoing investments related to labor savings and IoT in restructuring our production platform in the Electronic this sector, and will continue to propose optimal and Mechanical Components Business. solutions to our customers in response to this demand. Second, we intend to take full advantage of the Meanwhile, we expect this environment will continue technologies, products, infrastructure, and other assets to be as uncertain as it is challenging. The digital we developed through two years of VG2.0 activities to industry in particular is likely to experience weakness in date (FY2017 to FY2018), moving forward in enhancing demand for capital investment. This uncertainty in the our growth power. The OMRON Industrial Automation markets and the impact of foreign exchange lead us to Business focuses on utilization of the OMRON Group forecast segment net sales of ¥378.0 billion for fiscal Automation Centers around the world and the training 2019, a 3.5% decrease compared to fiscal 2018. of sales engineers. This will allow us to be more Improved gross profit margin, efficient use of fixed effective in proposals by which we solve customer costs, and other efforts should result in OMRON Group issues. Our Healthcare Business has spent the past operating income of ¥63.0 billion (0.2% increase). two years in developing a global sales network for the growing online shopping markets in America, the major countries of Europe, China, Japan, and other regions. In fiscal 2019, we plan to strengthen the promotional Electronic and Mechanical Components Business (EMC) sales policies within this sales network further to Given the ongoing sluggish demand for consumer and provide our products to as many consumers as possible commercial products due to uncertainties in the market around the world. environment, we expect to introduce new products and Last, The OMRON Group has a system to monitor field new business inquiries in growth sectors. Sales to market trends and changes in customers through our the automotive-related industries should be level business units. By having headquarters collect and compared to the prior fiscal year as the global market analyze changes in each business unit, we keep an eye experiences gradual growth and China continues to on changes and focus the ability of the OMRON Group experience weakness in the automotive and related to respond to change. industries. As a result of these factors and the impact Taking into account the risks of variability in the of foreign exchange, we forecast net sales for fiscal uncertain macro-economic climate, our fiscal 2019 plan 2019 to be ¥98.0 billion, a 1.7% decrease compared to calls for net sales of ¥830.0 billion (3.4% decrease fiscal 2018 results. As a result of ongoing investment versus fiscal 2018), operating income of ¥65.0 billion for future growth and continuing measures to ensure (15.2% decrease), and net income attributable to productivity improvements, we forecast an increase in OMRON shareholders of ¥42.5 billion (21.8% operating income to ¥8.5 billion (4.1% increase year on decrease). We plan to raise gross profit margin, an year) for fiscal 2019. indicator of our earnings ability, to 42.0% (0.8-point increase year on year), a significant improvement over 100 Financial Info Automotive Electronic Components Business (AEC) Other Businesses While we expect overall strength in automobile sales in We forecast higher demand in our Environmental Japan, the Americas, and Asia, we anticipate a Solutions Business, driven by growth in the market for slowdown in demand in the Chinese market as a result home-use storage battery systems. At the same time, of trade friction with the United States. Further, we we will continue to optimize our Backlights Business. expect the impact of model changes in vehicles using As a result, we forecast fiscal 2019 segment net sales OMRON products in Asia will likely result in decreased to be ¥32.0 billion, a 23.3% decrease compared to demand. Combined with the impact of foreign fiscal 2018 results. As a result of lower sales in our exchange, we forecast net sales for fiscal 2019 to be Backlights Business, we project operating losses of ¥124.0 billion (5.0% decrease from fiscal 2018 results). ¥1.0 billion, compared to fiscal 2018 operating losses of As a consequence of lower net sales, we anticipate a ¥0.5 billion. sharp decrease to ¥4.0 billion in operating income (down 36.7%). Note: OMRON plans to transfer the Automotive Electronics Components Business (AEC) to the Nidec Corporation Group. Social Systems, Solutions and Service Business (SSB) We expect to see firm demand for upgrades and new safety features in our Public Transportation Business and our Traffic and Road Management Systems Business. At the same time, we project increased demand for payment settlement devices in response to rising needs for cashless payments. Accordingly, we forecast significantly higher net sales for fiscal 2019 at ¥83.0 billion (10.6% increase over fiscal 2018) and operating income of ¥6.5 billion (12.8% increase). Healthcare Business (HCB) We project strong ongoing demand for secondary prevention products related to lifestyle diseases stemming from increasingly aging societies and lifestyle changes globally. Additionally, by engaging in promotional activities in our sales network, particularly online shopping markets in America, the major countries of Europe, China, Japan, and other regions, we forecast net sales of ¥123.0 billion (up 6.5% from fiscal 2018) and operating income of ¥14.0 billion (7.4% increase), providing growth in both revenue and profit for fiscal 2019. 101 Vision Strategy Business Governance Financial Info Corporate Info Consolidated Balance Sheets OMRON Corporation and Subsidiaries March 31, 2018 and 2019 (Millions of yen) (Millions of yen) ASSETS FY2017 FY2018 LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY FY2017 FY2018 Current Assets: Current Liabilities: Cash and cash equivalents ¥ 113,023 ¥ 110,250 Notes and accounts payable trade ¥ 93,792 ¥ 89,235 Notes and accounts receivable trade 174,065 171,196 Accrued expenses 44,291 41,549 Allowance for doubtful receivables (1,117) (945) Income taxes payable 6,414 3,511 Inventories 129,581 130,083 Other current liabilities 38,281 37,177 Other current assets 21,833 18,081 Total Current Liabilities 182,778 171,472 Total Current Assets 437,385 428,665 Deferred Income Taxes 706 1,338 Termination and Retirement Benefits 42,342 58,332 Property, Plant and Equipment: Other Long-Term Liabilities 11,740 12,425 Land 24,886 24,675 Total Liabilities 237,566 243,567 Buildings 145,389 136,439 Machinery and equipment 205,233 207,991 Shareholders’ Equity: Construction in progress 10,063 15,822 Capital 64,100 64,100 Total 385,571 384,927 Common stock Accumulated depreciation (250,468) (242,215) Authorized: 487,000,000 shares in FY2018 Net Property, Plant and Equipment 135,103 142,712 487,000,000 shares in FY2017 Issued: 213,958,172 shares in FY2018 213,958,172 shares in FY2017 Investments and Other Assets: Capital surplus 99,588 100,233 Goodwill 38,705 40,532 Legal reserve 19,940 21,826 Investments in and advances to affiliates 27,195 26,023 Retained earnings 390,950 433,639 Investment securities 29,016 29,003 Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (49,359) (70,200) Leasehold deposits 7,531 7,730 Treasury stock (19,689) (45,386) Deferred income taxes 39,947 43,695 8,596,608 shares in FY2018 Other assets 30,070 31,518 3,352,916 shares in FY2017 Total Investments and Other Assets 172,464 178,501 Total Shareholders’ Equity 505,530 504,212 Noncontrolling Interests 1,856 2,099 Total Net Assets 507,386 506,311 Total ¥ 744,952 ¥749,878 Total ¥ 744,952 ¥749,878 102 Financial Info Consolidated Statements of Income OMRON Corporation and Subsidiaries Years ended March 31, 2017, 2018 and 2019 (Millions of yen) FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Net Sales ¥ 794,201 ¥ 859,982 ¥ 859,482 Costs and Expenses: Cost of sales 482,040 502,170 505,389 Selling, general and administrative expenses 193,093 212,481 219,683 Research and development expenses 50,539 59,077 57,777 Other expenses, net 3,037 2,887 1,201 Total 728,709 776,615 784,050 Income before Income Taxes and Equity in Earnings of Affiliates 65,492 83,367 75,432 Income Taxes 19,882 21,615 18,863 Equity in Earnings of Affiliates (712) (1,754) 1,578 Net Income 46,322 63,506 54,991 Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests 335 347 668 Net Income Attributable to OMRON Shareholders ¥ 45,987 ¥ 63,159 ¥ 54,323 (Yen) FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Per Share Data: Net income Attributable to OMRON Shareholders: Basic ¥ 215.09 ¥ 296.85 ¥ 260,78 Diluted 215.09 — — † Certain amounts in the consolidated statements of income for FY2016 and FY2017 have been reclassified. 103 Vision Strategy Business Governance Financial Info Corporate Info Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income OMRON Corporation and Subsidiaries Years ended March 31, 2017, 2018 and 2019 (Millions of yen) FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Net Income ¥ 46,322 ¥ 63,506 ¥ 54,991 Other Comprehensive Income (Loss), Net of Tax: Foreign currency translation adjustments: Foreign currency translation adjustments arising during the year (9,003) 3,153 (4,419) Reclassification adjustment for the portion realized in net income (7) — (109) Net unrealized gain (loss) (9,010) 3,153 (4,528) Pension liability adjustments: Pension liability adjustments arising during the year 4,908 451 (11,419) Reclassification adjustment for the portion realized in net income 3,046 2,335 2,556 Net unrealized gain (loss) 7,954 2,786 (8,863) Unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities: Unrealized holding gains (losses) arising during the year 1,164 3,695 — Reclassification adjustment for the portion realized in net income (7,283) (2,034) — Net unrealized gain (loss) (6,119) 1,661 — Net gains (losses) on derivative instruments: Unrealized holding gains (losses) arising during the year 983 (514) 32 Reclassification adjustment for the portion realized in net income (1,109) 920 (73) Net unrealized gain (loss) (126) 406 (41) Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) (7,301) 8,006 (13,432) Comprehensive Income 39,021 71,512 41,559 Comprehensive Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests 193 349 651 Comprehensive Income Attributable to OMRON Shareholders ¥ 38,828 ¥ 71,163 ¥ 40,908 104 Financial Info Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity OMRON Corporation and Subsidiaries Years ended March 31, 2017, 2018 and 2019 (Millions of yen) Accumulated Number of Total Common Capital Legal Retained other Treasury Noncontrolling Total net common shareholders' stock surplus reserve earnings comprehensive stock interests assets shares issued equity income (loss) Balance, March 31, 2016 213,958,172 ¥ 64,100 ¥ 99,101 ¥ 15,194 ¥ 317,171 ¥ (50,204) ¥ (644) ¥ 444,718 ¥ 2,316 ¥ 447,034 Net income 45,987 45,987 335 46,322 Cash dividends paid to OMRON Corporation shareholders, ¥68 per (14,539) (14,539) (14,539) share Cash dividends paid to noncontrolling interests — (297) (297) Equity transactions with noncontrolling interests 14 14 (484) (470) and other Transfer to legal reserve 2,619 (2,619) — — Other comprehensive income (loss) (7,159) (7,159) (142) (7,301) Acquisition of treasury stock (16) (16) (16) Sale of treasury stock (0) 1 1 1 Issuance of stock acquisition rights 23 23 23 Balance, March 31, 2017 213,958,172 64,100 99,138 17,813 346,000 (57,363) (659) 469,029 1,728 470,757 Net income 63,159 63,159 347 63,506 Cash dividends paid to OMRON Corporation shareholders, ¥76 per (16,083) (16,083) (16,083) share Cash dividends paid to noncontrolling interests — (215) (215) Equity transactions with noncontrolling interests 6 1 7 (6) 1 and other Stock-based payment 444 444 444 Transfer to legal reserve 2,127 (2,127) — — Other comprehensive income (loss) 8,004 8,004 2 8,006 Acquisition of treasury stock (19,030) (19,030) (19,030) Balance, March 31, 2018 213,958,172 64,100 ¥99,588 19,940 390,950 (49,359) (19,689) 505,530 1,856 507,386 Cumulative impact of the application of FASB Accounting Standards 7,650 (7,426) 224 224 Update 2016-01 and 2018-03* Balance, April 1, 2018 (reflecting application of FASB Accounting 213,958,172 64,100 99,588 19,940 398,600 (56,785) (19,689) 505,754 1,856 507,610 Standards Update 2016-01 and 2018-03 Net income 54,323 54,323 668 54,991 Cash dividends paid to OMRON Corporation shareholders, ¥84 per (17,398) (17,398) (17,398) share Cash dividends paid to noncontrolling interests — (343) (343) Equity transactions with noncontrolling interests — (65) (65) and other Share-based compensation 645 645 645 Transfer to legal reserve 1,886 (1,886) — — Other comprehensive income (loss) (13,415) (13,415) (17) (13,432) Acquisition of treasury stock (25,697) (25,697) (25,697) Balance, March 31, 2019 213,958,172 ¥ 64,100 ¥ 100,233 ¥ 21,826 ¥ 433,639 ¥ (70,200) ¥ (45,386) ¥ 504,212 ¥ 2,099 ¥ 506,311 * Represents the impact of adopting the new accounting standard related to financial instruments. 105 Vision Strategy Business Governance Financial Info Corporate Info Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows OMRON Corporation and Subsidiaries Years ended March 31, 2017, 2018 and 2019 (Millions of yen) FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Operating Activities: Net income ¥46,322 ¥63,506 ¥54,991 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities: Depreciation and amortization 28,966 29,465 30,459 Net loss (gain) on sale and disposals of property, plant, and equipment 705 949 (1,098) Impairment losses on long-lived assets 12,998 911 196 Net loss on sale of investment securities — — 563 Net gain on sale of investment securities (3,764) (3,003) — Impairment losses on investment securities 558 155 — Gain on contribution of securities to retirement benefit trust (7,004) — — Termination and retirement benefits 2,863 2,706 3,818 Deferred income taxes 11 (2,607) (383) Equity in earnings of affiliates (712) (1,754) 1,578 Loss (gain) on sales of business (3,686) 14 (407) Changes in assets and liabilities: Decrease (increase) in notes and accounts receivable trade (8,923) (3,210) (534) Decrease (increase) in inventories (7,112) (17,409) (3,491) Decrease (increase) in other assets 2,604 (6,113) (294) Increase (decrease) in notes and accounts payable trade 8,384 4,116 (5,401) Increase (decrease) in income taxes payable 852 (614) (2,775) Increase (decrease) in accrued expenses and other current liabilities 5,097 6,276 (6,851) Other, net (284) 285 874 Total adjustments 31,553 10,167 16,254 Net cash provided by operating activities 77,875 73,673 71,245 Investing Activities: Proceeds from sale or maturities of investment securities 4,606 3,776 465 Purchase of investment securities (3,274) (649) (602) Capital expenditures (25,816) (38,542) (39,045) Decrease in leasehold deposits, net (145) (634) (193) Proceeds from sale of property, plant, and equipment 2,278 990 3,475 Decrease (increase) in investment in and loans to affiliates 30 — (498) Proceeds from sale of business, net of cash paid 7,187 (427) 1,817 Acquisition of business, net of cash acquired — (20,445) (830) Other, net 93 89 454 Net cash used in investing activities (15,041) (55,842) (34,957) Financing Activities: Net borrowings (repayments) of short-term debt 155 951 2,109 Dividends paid by the Company (14,539) (15,378) (16,776) Dividends paid to noncontrolling interests (297) (215) (343) Payments for equity transactions with noncontrolling interests (470) — — Acquisition of treasury stock (16) (18,530) (25,716) Other, net 155 90 (57) Net cash used in financing activities (15,012) (33,082) (40,783) Effect of Exchange Rate Changes on Cash and Cash Equivalents (4,706) 2,248 1,722 Net Increase (Decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents 43,116 (13,003) (2,773) Cash and Cash Equivalents at Beginning of the Year 82,910 126,026 113,023 Cash and Cash Equivalents at End of the Year ¥126,026 ¥113,023 ¥ 110,250 106 Corporate Info Corporate Information As of March 31, 2019 Established  Major Manufacturing & Development, Sales & Marketing, May 10, 1933 and Research & Development Centers in Japan Incorporated  Manufacturing & Subsidiaries and Affiliates May 19, 1948 Development OMRON Automotive Electronics Co., Ltd. Capital  Kusatsu Office OMRON SOCIAL SOLUTIONS Co., Ltd. ¥64,100 million Okayama Office OMRON HEALTHCARE Co., Ltd. Number of Employees Ayabe Office OMRON RELAY & DEVICES Co., Ltd. (Consolidated)  Yasu Office OMRON SWITCH & DEVICES Co., Ltd. 35,090 OMRON AMUSEMENT CO., Ltd Common Stock  Research & Development OMRON FIELD ENGINEERING Co., Ltd. Issued Keihanna Technology OMRON SOFTWARE Co., Ltd. 213,958 thousand shares Innovation Center OMRON ASO Co., Ltd. Trading Unit OMRON EXPERTLINK Co., Ltd. 100 shares Sales & Marketing Number of Shareholders Tokyo Office 41,489 Osaka Office Stock Listings  Nagoya Office Tokyo Stock Exchange, Mishima Office Frankfurt Stock Exchange Securities Code  6645 Fiscal Year-End  March 31 Overseas Headquarters Annual Shareholders’ Meeting  June North America Greater China Custodian of Register of OMRON MANAGEMENT OMRON MANAGEMENT CENTER OF AMERICA CENTER OF CHINA Shareholders  (United States of America, Illinois) (Shanghai) Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation Brazil Asia Pacific Depositary and Transfer OMRON MANAGEMENT OMRON MANAGEMENT CENTER OF BRAZIL CENTER OF ASIA PACIFIC Agent for American (São Paulo) (Singapore) Depositary Receipts  JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. Europe India Head Office  OMRON MANAGEMENT OMRON MANAGEMENT CENTER OF EUROPE CENTER OF INDIA Shiokoji Horikawa, (The Netherlands, North Holland) (Gurgaon) Shimogyo-ku, Kyoto 600-8530, Japan Korea Tel : +81-75-344-7000 OMRON MANAGEMENT CENTER OF KOREA Fax: +81-75-344-7001 (Seoul) 107 Vision Strategy Business Governance Financial Info Corporate Info Stock Information Share Price and Volume (Yen, Point) Daily Trading Volume (1,000 Shares) 8,000 4,000 OMRON TOPIX TOPIX Electric Appliances 6,000 3,000 4,000 2,000 2,000 1,000 0 0 2009/3 2010/3 2011/3 2012/3 2013/3 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2018/3 2019/3 † OMRON share prices prior to July 16, 2013 reflect prices on the First Section of the Osaka Securities Exchange. Share prices on July 16, 2013 and later reflect prices on the First Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Total Shareholder Return (TSR*1) FY 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 OMRON 128.9% 81.9% 119.5% 153.6% 130.2% TOPIX 130.7% 116.5% 133.7% 154.9% 147.1% TOPIX Electric Appliances 137.0% 107.4% 136.4% 169.6% 151.3% *1 Represents total investment return to shareholders, combining capital gains and dividends. The calculation of this figure is now a required disclosure under Cabinet Office Ordinance. † This figure reflects period-end value for fiscal years beginning with fiscal 2014, assuming an investment at the fiscal 2013 year-end closing price. 52-Week High / Low, Volatility*2 Dividends per Share / Payout Ratio FY High (¥) Low (¥) Volatility (%) FY Dividends per Share (¥) Payout Ratio (%) 2018 6,300 3,740 34.5 2018 84 32.2 2017 7,670 4,385 27.1 2017 76 25.6 2016 5,120 3,045 32.5 2016 68 31.6 2015 5,900 2,742 40.0 2015 68 31.1 2014 5,800 3,365 30.9 2014 71 25.0 2013 4,730 2,213 39.7 2013 53 25.3 2012 2,478 1,436 29.9 2012 37*3 27.0 2011 2,357 1,381 36.5 2011 28 37.6 2010 2,418 1,749 34.7 2010 30 24.7 2009 2,215 1,132 35.9 2009 17 106.4 *2 Volatility: Price fluctuation risk expressed in standard deviations *3 Including ¥5.0 per share of 80th anniversary memorial dividend Ownership and Distribution of Shares Shareholder Distribution by Number of Shares Held (Trading unit: 100 shares) % 100 1,000 to less than 5,000 12.4% 13.0% 16.0% 100 to less than1,000 0.3% More than 80 10 to less 1.2% 5,000 than 100 0.2% 47.5% 47.9% 33.4% 13.2% 60 40 5.7% 2.8% Individuals and 41,489 5.7% 5.7% Shareholders others 1.1% 1.0% Foreign investors Other 20 corporations 33.3% 32.4% 42.1% Financial instruments dealers Financial Less than 10 0 institutions 2016 2017 2018 (FYE) 85.1% 108 Corporate Info OMRON Recognitions OMRON Innovations Recognized Selected as Top 100 Global Innovator 2018 Received fiscal 2018 Nationwide Invention Commendation Invention Award for the first time OMRON was selected for a third consecutive year as a OMRON HEALTHCARE Co., Ltd. has received the Top 100 Global Innovator, an award recognizing the best Invention Award which is given to expect significant 100 innovative companies and research institutes. achievement. The design of the tubeless smart upper arm blood pressure monitor featuring a new design different from that of conventional devices was highly regarded. Coverage in Various Indexes We are honored to have been included for the ninth consecutive year in the Dow Jones Sustainability (DJSI) Asia/ Pacific Index and for the second consecutive year in the DJSI World Index from 2017. We have also been included for the fourth consecutive year in the MSCI ESG Leaders Index and for the third consecutive year in the FTSE4Good Index Series. In June 2019, we were selected for the first time in the Euronext Vigeo Eiris World 120 Index. We have also been included in a range of other indexes. ESG Indexes THE INCLUSION OF OMRON Corporation IN ANY MSCI INDEX, AND THE USE OF MSCI LOGOS, TRADEMARKS, SERVICE MARKS OR INDEX NAMES HEREIN, DO NOT CONSTITUTE A SPONSORSHIP, ENDORSEMENT OR PROMOTION OF OMRON Corporation BY MSCI OR ANY OF ITS AFFILIATES. THE MSCI INDEXES ARE THE EXCLUSIVE PROPERTY OF MSCI. MSCI AND THE MSCI INDEX NAMES AND LOGOS ARE TRADEMARKS OR SERVICE MARKS OF MSCI OR ITS AFFILIATES. With the commencement of ESG investing by the Japan Government Pension Investment Fund (GPIF), OMRON was selected as a component member of three ESG indexes in July 2017 for the third consecutive year.In 2018, we were also selected for the S&P/JPX Carbon Efficient index. Major Indexes in Japan In March 2019, we were selected for the first time as one of the 225 stocks that make up the Nikkei Stock Average. 109 Vision Strategy Business Governance Financial Info Corporate Info OMRON Contributions to Sustainability Recognized Received the 2018 Environment Minister’s Award for Global Designated 2019 Health & Productivity Warming Prevention Activity for excellence in the Implementation Stock Selection for the First Time and Dissemination of Countermeasures Category OMRON was recognized for the Our efforts in pursuit of OMRON first time as a Health Management Carbon Zero environmental targets Brand stemming from our under the Green OMRON 2020 OMRON Employee Health vision for the future of the Management Declaration (led by environment have been recognized senior management) and the by the Ministry of the Environment OMRON Health White Paper as part of its efforts to promote (visualization of employee health). global warming countermeasures. Selected as a Nadeshiko Brand Corporate Governance of the Year 2018 Minister of Economy, OMRON was recognized for our engagement in diversity Trade and Industry Award promotion activities in our human OMRON was recognized for resources strategy under VG2.0. transparency in the selection As a result, we selected process for the CEO, a process Nadeshiko Brand designation for essential for governance. a second consecutive year. OMRON Communications Recognized Integrated Report 2018 Ranked No.30 in Best Japan Best Japan Brands 2019 Selected by the Japan Brands 2019 move up to rank 30 Government Pension OMRON was ranked No.30 in the Investment Fund (GPIF), Japan business brand evaluation domestic share management ranking. Up from No.39 in 2017, we 39 30 organization, highly regarded were recognized for our initiatives in as an outstanding integrated 2018 2019 fiscal 2018. report. OMRON Corporate Websites Medium-Term OMRON publishes a wide Investor Relations Information Sustainability Information Management Plan Website range of information through our corporate websites. We have also produced numerous videos online that tell the story of our future in a https://www.omron.com/ https://www.omron.com/ https://www.omron.com/ much more dynamic way. about/ir/ about/sustainability/ vg2020/ EDGE & LINK Corporate Overview EDGE & LINK is a website Video that discusses OMRON We invite you to watch technologies and the OMRON corporate initiatives for improving overview video to learn lives and contributing to more about how our better societies through technologies are changing our businesses. society for the better. https://www.edge-link.omron.com/ https://youtu.be/20HPAokyDoY 110 Corporate Info Responsible Engagement With Our Stakeholders As stated in our Sustainability Policy, OMRON cultivates strong relationships with our stakeholders through responsible engagement. We see these strong relationships as invisible assets important for our sustainable growth. These relationships are also an indispensable part of creating innovation driven by social needs. We engaged in responsible Dialouges with our stakeholders to improve corporate value and contribute to a better society through our businesses by using marketing, corporate, and investor communications. Responsible Engagement with Our Stakeholders Improved corporate value Improved business value Improved brand value Improved share value Value chain Supply chain Investment chain Suppliers Products/services Business partners Investment Marketing Corporate Corporate Investor Customers communications communications OMRON communications communications Investors Compensation Employees Capital gain (Sales/profit) (recruitment/employment) Income gain Communities Increased Solving social issues income Increased Social development Increased employment Return Investment taxes Contribution to development of a better society through our businesses Case Studies: Dialogues with Stakeholders Marketing communications / Dialogues with customers OMRON engages in Dialogues with customers for the co-creation of value. Our Industrial Automation Business has opened 35 Automation Centers worldwide. At these centers, OMRON sales engineers regularly meet and discuss current production floor issues with customers from leading companies across all industries. The knowledge we gain from these Dialogues has led to the creation Automation Centers of the i-BELT production floor data service and other new products. 111 Vision Strategy Business Governance Financial Info Corporate Info Corporate communications / Dialogues with employees OMRON Chairman, Fumio Tateishi conducts OMRON Principles Missionary Dialogues as a part of activities for employees to ensure, understand and fully embrace the practice of the OMRON Principles. In fiscal 2018, Missionary Dialogues were held in the Americas, Asia-Pacific, China, Europe, and Japan. In these Dialogues, our chairman meets with employees to discuss why we work and for whom. What we can do tomorrow to continue to practice the OMRON Principles. These in-depth talks help Dialogues in Europe employees across our organization to put the OMRON Principles into practice. Corporate communications / Dialogues with suppliers Every year, OMRON holds a Global Partner Conference with representatives for major suppliers. At this conference, we share details of our management policy initiatives, business structures, procurement policies, and sustainable procurement practices. A total of 110 supplier companies participated in the May 2019 conference, showing that sustainable procurement efforts are progressing smoothly. We asked suppliers to continue working with OMRON to Global Partner Conference (May 2018) contribute a sustainable society throughout the supply chain. Corporate communications / Dialogues with business partners OMRON challenges to create business through open innovation with business partners. In 2018, Maizuru City (Kyoto Prefecture) approached OMRON SINICX Corporation to create the future of Japanese regional revitalization together with OMRON. Discussions proceeded until the April 2019 signing of a comprehensive agreement to address regional social issues looking ahead to the year 2030 between Maizuru City and OMRON’s Social Systems, Solutions Signing Ceremony with Maizuru City and Service Business. (April 2019) Corporate communications / Dialogues with communities OMRON Kyoto Taiyo Co., Ltd., a special subsidiary of OMRON, encourages the employment of people with disabilities. Since the singing of an agreement with Kyoto Prefecture and Kyoto City on creating an environment related to employment of persons with disabilities in 2016, we have leveraged the strengths of each of these parties to bolster activities encouraging the hiring and employment support of Employees Working at OMRON Kyoto Taiyo persons with disabilities. We work every day to increase the employment of persons with disabilities throughout Kyoto and the rest of Japan. Investor communications / Dialogues with investors OMRON strives to raise corporate value through dialogue with shareholders and investors. In fiscal 2018, we held the 81st Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders, as well as the second ESG Meeting. In these meetings, we took the opportunity to explain OMRON’s business and governance initiatives. We fielded many questions and listened to opinions from the shareholders and investors who participated. The knowledge we receive from interaction with our shareholders has led to improvements in our The 81st Ordinary General Meeting of management initiatives. This has also contributed to external recognition, including being Shareholders (June 19, 2018) awarded the IR Prime Business Award the IR Special Award. 112 Independent Practitioner’s Assurances To enhance the reliability of the information presented in Integrated Report 2019, the following information associated with social and environmental performance provided herein has been reviewed by independent third parties*. *KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. Bureau Veritas Japan Co., Ltd. Data subject to independent assurance Data subject to independent assurance Ratio of non-Japanese in managerial GHG emissions (P30) positions overseas (P30) Net sales to CO2 emissions (P30) Ratio of women in managerial roles (OMRON Group in Japan) (P30) Data subject to independent review Ratio of employees with disabilities (OMRON Group in Japan) (P30) Environmental contribution (P30) Members for Integrated Report 2019 Industrial Automation Company OMRON AUTOMOTIVE OMRON HEALTHCARE CO., LTD. Global Invester & Hidetaka Kitajima ELECTRONICS CO., LTD. Kaori Iijima Brand Communications HQ Toshinori Takahashi Yoichi Tomita Shuji Okumura Electronic and Mechanical Yasuyuki Furukawa Yusuke Komori Components Company Yuka Yokoi Environmental Solutions Yukari Sakamoto Kazumasa Oshio Business HQ Tomomi Sato Miharu Sakuragi OMRON SOCIAL Tatsuya Komamine Masayuki Sato Yukari Terakawa SOLUTIONS CO., LTD. Noboru Shibata Naru Yasuda Takahiro Iesato Technology & Intellectual Susumu Hikita Takeshi Kawakami Property HQ Kazuki Matsuyama Seiji Kokumai Yoko Kitamura Mikako Mori Haruka Morimoto Yue Liu 113 From the Publisher Integrated Report 2019 marks the eighth integrated interests of our stakeholders. The third was abolishing report published by the OMRON Group. I would like to the printing and distribution of this report as a physical express our appreciation for the reader and everyone booklet. This decision was taken in consideration of the involved in this year’s production and publication. changes in our stakeholders’ values and changes in The theme of this year’s report is creating a better media consumption. In addition, we also considered the society by practicing the Omron Principles. Behind the lack of global resources in the current age. We have selection of this theme is the increasing uncertainty determined that concentrating distribution on digital surrounding both the global economy and the business media was the most effective and efficient way to environment over the last year. In creating this report, distribute this report to you our many stakeholders we considered that, it was important to return to the around the world. We also have prepared a printed roots of our business principles this time in particular. In edition of this report to people for whom have difficulties accordance with this policy, this report attempts to show accessing the online edition. different perspectives in our initiatives aimed at This report was largely compiled by the Global Investor sustainable improvements to corporate value through Relations & Brand Communications HQ, prepared after the application of the OMRON Principles. repeated discussions with cooperating parties within and We have used feedback from our stakeholders about outside the company. We will continue to place great previous editions in striving to make a number of value on dialogue with everyone involved. We look improvements to this report. We would like to introduce forward to hearing your honest opinions in this regard. three representative improvements. The first was a round-table discussion attended by all outside officers. Here, we hope to offer a glimpse of the effectiveness of our board of directors beyond what is covered in existing disclosure materials alone. The second was participation August 2019 in editorial planning by external specialists. By having Executive Officer Global Investor & Brand journalists conduct interviews focused on messages Communications HQ from the CEO, CFO, CTO, and Chairman, we worked to Publisher, Integrated Report 2019 create a message that would better respond to the Tsutomu Igaki Edition Team Members for Integrated Report 2019 Global Invester & Brand Communications HQ Satomi Kazunori Kisho Iida Ayumi Tomoyoshi Marika Fuse Somekawa Yasui Chishiro Tsukimoto Editor-in-Chief Deputy Editor-in-Chief Global Human Resources and Global Manufacturing Sustainability Office Board of Directors Office Administration HQ Innovation HQ Rumi Ueyama Yutaka Ito Tsunehisa Ichimori Nana Itoi Masaru Kaizaki Yuriko Sunaga Sachio Inami Ko Uchikawa Katsuhiko Sugii Naoki Nakai Michiko Imai Masahiko Kawachidani Kashuku Hirao Shinya Nagata Ryota Ueshima Hidematsu Takashima Yasuyuki Hirakawa Yasuhiko Ueshim Shuji Tatsuoka Junko Hirata Production cooperation Yoshinobu Kokufugata Nami Matsuko TAKARA PRINTING CO., LTD. Hitoshi Tanimura Global Risk Management and Yuki Yoshikawa DIAMOND,Inc. Shin Nakajima Legal HQ Yasuteru Yamamoto Koji Okamoto Sachiko Yagi 114
