SUMITOMO RIKO Integrated Report 2019 Global Excellent Manufacturing Company Table of Contents and Links Corporate Governance•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• P. 10 Message from the President & CEO Messages from Outside Directors Financial Policy••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• P. 11 Review of Fiscal 2018••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• P. 1 Financial Strategy and Management of Investment in Growth Financial Information••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• P. 12 Toward Fiscal 2019•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• P.3 Long-term Trends in Performance Indicators Performance Forecasts Facing Current Issues For details, please see Sumitomo Riko’s website 2022V•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• P.5 Top Page https://www.sumitomoriko.co.jp/english/ Aiming to Create Social Value Products Supporting the Future of Automobiles https://www.sumitomoriko.co.jp/english/product/ Our Company https://www.sumitomoriko.co.jp/english/company/ Our Governance Structure•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• P.8 Research and Development (R&D) https://www.sumitomoriko.co.jp/english/rd/ Investor Relations (IR) The Company We Aspire to Be••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• P.9 https://www.sumitomoriko.co.jp/english/ir/ Thriving on the Sumitomo Spirit and manufacturing DNA CSR Information https://www.sumitomoriko.co.jp/english/csr/portal/ Editorial Policy Contact Information Period covered in the Report Edited by Sustainability Project, Corporate Planning Department From April 1, 2018 to March 31, 2019 (fiscal 2018). This Report also refers to certain activities that are being undertaken in fiscal 2019 or were Contact : Public Relations and Investor Relations Department carried out in previous years. Boundary of the Report For comments or questions on this report, please contact: This Report covers Sumitomo Riko and its Group companies. TEL +81-525-71-0200 In this Report, “Sumitomo Riko” and the “Sumitomo Riko Group” are defined as follows. “Sumitomo Riko” and “the Company”: Sumitomo Riko Company Limited https://www.sumitomoriko.co.jp/english/ “Sumitomo Riko Group” and the “Group”: Sumitomo Riko and Group companies. The term “Group companies” alone does not include Sumitomo Riko. Group companies may be described as associated companies, subsidiaries or affiliated companies. Message from the President & CEO Strive to strengthen competitiveness and achieve consistent growth by turning changes in society into opportunities for dramatic growth Review of Fiscal 2018 Net sales have reached a record high, driven by expanding deyear on year to ¥1.2 billion. As a result, loss attributable to owners of mands in the Chinese and other Asian markets. However, busithe parent company was ¥5.0 billion (whereas, profit of ¥3.5 billion in ness profit decreased because of delays in productivity improvethe previous year), resulting in an extremely severe situation of a final ments at the U.S. bases, lower profitability for general industrial deficit, the first in four years since fiscal 2014. products, and other factors. Impairment losses were posted in European anti-vibration rubber and other businesses, resulting in ◆ Impairment loss a final deficit. As shown in the table below, ¥5.8 billion of the ¥7.2 billion impairment loss is for the goodwill and intangible assets of the former Anvis Group. ◆ Fiscal 2018 results Former Anvis is a German manufacturer of anti-vibration rubNet sales increased 1% year on year to ¥469.7 billion, buoyed by facber products with production bases in Europe, Mexico and China. tors such as higher demands in the automotive and infrastructure fields Sumitomo Riko acquired former Anvis in 2013 with the intention of esin the Chinese and other Asian markets. tablishing a global supply system in the automotive anti-vibration rubHowever, although profitability improved in Europe, business profit ber products business. However, because of the sluggish European decreased 27% year on year to ¥9.4 billion. This was caused by inautomotive market, together with delays in the release of new cars due creased material losses and labor costs in the U.S. due to delays in to the recent introduction of the Worldwide Harmonized Light Vehicles productivity improvements triggered by labor shortages, the deterioraTest Procedure (WLTP), the business plan had to be revised. As a result, tion of profit performance of the Brazilian subsidiary due to a contracwe concluded that it would take a long time to recover the full amount tion in the Argentinian automotive market, and a decline in the profitof our investment in the former Anvis Group, and accordingly posted ability for general industrial products primarily because of the reduced an impairment loss. demand for functional parts for printers. In addition, an impairment loss On the other hand, incorporating former Anvis into the Group has of ¥7.2 billion was posted, causing operating profit to decrease 91% expanded our sales channels to overseas automakers, and enlarged Consolidated Profit/loss of FY2018 [IFRS] (100 millions of yen) Impairment Loss FY2017 FY2018 Change from prev. yr. Purpose for acquiring Acquisition in May 2013 Actual Actual Amount Rate former Anvis To establish a global supply system for anti-vibration rubber products Net sales 4,629 4,697 +68 +1% Business profit 129 94 -35 -27% Compared to expectations upon acquisition (2013), (1) Downturn in the European anti-vibration rubber products business (Profit margin) 2.8% 2.0% Reasons for loss on • Lower demand due to the Worldwide Harmonized Light Vehicles Test Operating profit 122 12 -110 -91% impairment of former Procedure (WLTP), etc., and tougher competition (Profit margin) 2.6% 0.2% Anvis (2) Downturn in the Mexican base • Declining productivity, and changes in production locations of automakers Profit before income taxes 113 7 -106 -94% Profit for the year 58 (29) -87 — Breakdown of Loss on impairment of goodwill of former Anvis Group ¥4.8 billion impairment loss Loss on impairment of intangible assets of former Anvis Group ¥1.0 billion Profit attributable to owners Loss on impairment of fixed assets in Mexico and Brazil ¥1.2 billion of the parent company 35 (50) -85 — Other ¥0.2 billion Exchange Rate Total ¥7.2 billion Tetsu Matsui Yen/USD 110.86 110.92 +0.06 +0% Outcomes of (1) Acquisition of customer network for overseas automakers Yen/EUR 129.71 128.42 -1.30 -1% (2) Establishment of a global production system President & CEO acquisition of former ⇒ A cquisition of major orders for our existing products from (Note) Business profit is calculated by subtracting Cost of sales and Selling, general and administrative expenses Anvis from Net sales and adding Equity in earnings/losses of associates. overseas automakers 1 Message from the President & CEO Review of Fiscal 2018 our global production system. Positive results are steadily achieved, Column Segment Results such as acquiring major orders from overseas automakers. (See “Global development and expansion of sales of automotive products” on page 4) Results by business segment [ ■ General Industrial Products] [ ■ Automotive Products] Precision resin blades and rolls, anti-vibration rubber for railroad trucks, ◆ Reduction in dividends Anti-vibration rubber products, hoses, sound controlling/insulation prodhousing, bridges, and electronic equipment; hydraulic hoses and feeder ucts, interior equipment, etc. hoses; and rubber sealants, etc. Sumitomo Riko positions shareholder returns as one of its important ● Sales ...... ¥398.2 billion (up 1% year on year) ● Sales ...... ¥71.5 billion (up 3% year on year) management policies. The Company’s basic policy is to maintain sta● Business profit ...... ¥7.8 billion (down 20% year on year) ● Business profit ...... ¥1.6 billion (down 48% year on year) ble dividends over the long term, taking into account the business re■ Sales: sales in Japan grew due to increased production of Kei cars, and ■ Sales: sales of hydraulic hoses increased due to an increase in desults and other factors. The yardstick for stable dividends is to maintain sales grew in the U.S., China, and Thailand as well. However, overseas, mands for construction and civil engineering machinery in China. On a dividend on equity (DOE) ratio (ratio of cash dividends to equity atfrom the third quarter onward, the contraction of the previously positive the other hand, sales decreased for functional parts for printers and tributable to owners of the parent company) of 1% or higher. The target automotive market of China as well as the introduction of the Worldwide railroad parts. payout ratio is 30% or higher on average over the medium to long term. Harmonized Light Vehicles Test Procedure (WLTP) in Europe, together ■ Business profit: profit decreased due to the decrease in sales of funcHowever, in consideration of the worsened results in fiscal 2018 due with the effect of the slowdown of the European economy, caused the tional parts for printers and railroad parts combined with lower producto the posting of an impairment loss, the Company paid annual cash sales volume of the Company to decrease. In addition, a contraction tivity, despite the positive contribution of the increased sales of hydraulic dividends of ¥14 per share, a reduction of ¥6 from the previous year. of the Argentinian automotive market caused by the sluggish economy hoses. In order to make clear the management responsibility for the decline in triggered by currency depreciation resulted in a decrease in sales in the Results by geographical segment business results and reduced dividends, the remuneration for Directors second half of fiscal 2018 for the Brazilian base which supplies prodThe size of the deficit increased in Japan due to deteriorating profitability and Audit & Supervisory Board Members were reduced, and no boucts to Argentina. of general industrial products. The Americas posted a loss due to delays nuses were paid to Directors. Going forward, we will work to recover ■ Business profit: profitability was severely compromised due to the imour business results and improve shareholder returns. in productivity improvements in the U.S. together with the rising steel price pact of the rising steel price as well as the simultaneous launch of sevand worsening profitability in Mexico and Brazil. Asia posted increased eral manufacturing lines in the U.S. in the middle of a tight employment sales and profit due to increased demand in the automotive and infrastrucmarket, which led to delays in productivity improvements due to labor ture fields in China. For Europe, the impact of the introduction of the WLTP shortages. Furthermore, declining demands in Argentina worsened the among other factors drove down sales, but the improved profitability of the profit performance in the Brazilian base, while the increased cost of Italian subsidiary reduced the size of the deficit. launching new products in Mexico also caused a fall in profits. Dividend Trends FY2018 Results by Business Segment FY2018 Results by Geographical Segment Year-end Dividend (100 millions of yen) (100 millions of yen) (Yen/Share) 20 Interim Dividend 19 Change from prev. yr. FY2017 FY2018 Change from prev. yr. 20 FY2017 FY2018 Actual Actual Actual Actual Amount Rate Amount Rate 10 14 14 Japan Net sales 2,130 2,140 +10 +0% 15 10 4 ■ Automotive Products Net sales 3,934 3,982 +47 +1% Business profit (1) (11) -10 — 7 10 Business Americas Net sales 1,028 1,053 +25 +2% 98 78 -20 -20% profit Business profit 23 (9) -32 — 9 10 10 Asia Net sales 1,404 1,446 +42 +3% 5 7 ■ General Industrial Net sales 694 715 +21 +3% Business profit 131 134 +3 +3% Products Net sales 607 593 -14 -2% 0 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Est. Business Europe and 31 16 -15 -48% Others profit Business profit (15) (10) +5 — FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Eliminations or Net sales (540) (535) +5 — Est. Consolidated Total Net sales 4,629 4,697 +68 +1% Corporate Business profit (9) (10) -1 — Profit attributable to owners of the 50.04 yen 33.98 yen (48.37 yen) 19.26 yen Business Consolidated Net sales 4,629 4,697 +68 +1% parent company per share (basic) 129 94 -35 -27% Total Business profit 129 94 -35 -27% Dividends payout ratio 38.0% 58.9% — 72.7% profit Dividend on equity attributable to 1.23% 1.28% 0.90% 0.92% owners of the parent 2 Message from the President & CEO Toward Fiscal 2019 — Performance Forecasts Achieve rapid recovery of our earning power We expect consolidated net sales of ¥470.0 billion and business We project our fiscal 2019 performance to be net sales of ¥470.0 the U.S., Mexico and Brazil, the entire Group will progressively engage profit of ¥10.0 billion in the fiscal 2019 performance. Committing billion, business profit of ¥10.0 billion, operating profit of ¥8.0 billion, in measures for strengthening competitiveness, by reducing costs, ourselves to improve productivity through organizational reforms and profit attributable to owners of the parent company of ¥2.0 billion. curbing expenditure, etc. and structural reinforcement to meet the business plan, we will While striving to improve productivity in our overseas bases such as in strive to regain our earning power. Column Performance Forecasts by Segment ◆ Fiscal 2019 performance forecasts Performance forecasts by business segment ■ Business profit: increased profit is projected due to greater sales of railThe global economy is becoming increasingly uncertain in fiscal 2019 [ ■ Automotive Products] road parts and seismic dampers. However, overall profit is expected due to the U.S.-China trade friction and the Brexit issue. Concern is ■ Sales: in the U.S., we expect higher sales from increased sales of new to decrease because of the decreased profit associated with a drop in also rising over the economic slowdown mainly in China and Europe. models. A decrease in sales is projected in China in anticipation of the sales of functional parts for printers. In the automotive industry, in which the Group conducts its main busieconomic slowdown due to the impact of the U.S.-China trade friction. Performance forecasts by geographical segment ness, there are concerns over a deceleration in automotive sales in the ■ Business profit: we project increased profit in the U.S. since we expect In Japan, a slight decrease is projected in the sales plan compared main markets such as the U.S. and China. to improve productivity as well as reflect the rise in steel price in fiscal to the previous year, but we expect increased profits through proThe Group fully accepts the reality of the fall in its earning power over 2018 in the sales price. Furthermore, we will work to improve the productivity improvements and collection of global administrative costs the last few years, and commits to a rapid recovery. Specifically, we ductivity in the Mexican and Brazilian bases, and also work as planned from overseas subsidiaries. For the Americas, we plan to achieve will work on the improvement of productivity and reduction of costs by to turn the Italian base profitable. On the other hand, in Asia, we exincreased sales and profit through profitability improvements in effectively managing business through organizational reforms in each pect decreased profit due to lower automobile production in China and the U.S., Mexico and Brazil where the profit performance suffered automobile-related business; reinforcing management of overseas Thailand. due to a deterioration of productivity in fiscal 2018. For Europe, we bases through introduction of area-based business administration sys[ ■ General Industrial Products] plan to increase sales and profit through efforts such as profitability tems; and enhancing the material procurement capability via our newly ■ Sales: increased sales is expected for railroad parts, seismic dampers, improvements in the Italian subsidiary. On the other hand, for Asia established Global Purchasing Headquarters. At the same time, while and logistics-related items. Last year’s positive demand for hydraulic where we achieved positive results last year, we project decreased expanding and boosting global sales, we will rapidly work to develop hoses in China is expected to peak out due to the economic slowdown. sales and profit due to the expected fall in demand in the automotive next-generation technologies to adapt to the electrification of vehicles Decreased sales is expected for functional parts for printers due to an and infrastructure fields in China. As a result of all factors above, we and the advancement of autonomous driving technology. ongoing contraction of the market. plan either zero business profit or profits in all regions. Consolidated Profit/loss of FY2019 Estimate [IFRS] (100 millions of yen) FY2019 Estimate by Business Segment FY2019 Estimate by Geographical Segment FY2018 FY2019 Change from prev. yr. (100 millions of yen) (100 millions of yen) Actual Estimate Amount Rate FY2018 FY2019 Change from prev. yr. FY2018 FY2019 Change from prev. yr. Net sales 4,697 4,700 +3 +0% Actual Estimate Amount Rate Actual Estimate Amount Rate Business profit 94 100 +6 +7% Japan Net sales 2,140 2,130 -10 -0% (Profit margin) 2.0% 2.1% ■ Automotive Products Net sales 3,982 3,960 -22 -1% Business profit (11) 0 +11 — Operating profit 12 80 +68 ×7 Americas Net sales 1,053 1,090 +37 +4% (Profit margin) 0.2% 1.7% Business profit 78 85 +7 +9% Business profit (9) 5 +14 — Profit before income taxes 7 70 +63 ×10 Asia Net sales 1,446 1,400 -46 -3% Profit for the year (29) 40 +69 — ■ General Industrial Net sales 715 740 +25 +3% Business profit 134 106 -28 -21% Profit attributable to owners Products Net sales 593 600 +7 +1% of the parent company (50) 20 +70 — Business profit 16 15 -1 -7% Europe and Others Business profit (10) 0 +10 — Exchange Rate Eliminations or Net sales (535) (520) +15 — Exchange rate (yen/USD) 110.92 110.00 -0.92 -1% Consolidated Total Net sales 4,697 4,700 +3 +0% Corporate Business profit (10) (11) -1 — Exchange rate (yen/EUR) 128.42 125.00 -3.42 -3% Net sales 4,697 4,700 +3 +0% (Note) Business profit is calculated by subtracting Cost of sales and Selling, general and administrative expenses Business profit 94 100 +6 +7% Consolidated Total Business profit 94 100 +6 +7% from Net sales and adding Equity in earnings/losses of associates. 3 Message from the President & CEO Toward Fiscal 2019 — Facing Current Issues Strengthening our organization and global procurement capabilities as main focuses to regain global earning power Our intention is to improve productivity through measures such Also, in order to accelerate the development and strategic expaning forward. We will focus on the sales expansion of engine covers with as reinforcement of our manufacturing foundation through reorgasion of sales of products for next-generation advanced vehicles, we esexcellent heat-resistant and sound insulation properties. nization of the automotive anti-vibration business, and enhancetablished the New Energy Vehicle Devices Business Unit in April 2019. In 1988, we opened our first overseas base, establishing a producment of our materials procurement capabilities under the lead of tion system to service the global expansion of Japanese automakers. the Global Purchasing Headquarters. ◆ Enhancing procurement functions globally Furthermore, in 2013, we acquired foreign companies to boost our In April 2019, the Global Purchasing Headquarters was newly estabsales to overseas automakers. Leveraging our global network stretch◆ Reinforcing the manufacturing foundation through lished to centralize the procurement functions of each business unit. ing across 23 countries, we intend to further expand our sales. reorganization By leveraging our global network, we will enhance our procurement capabilities for materials such as rubber, resin, and metal parts, pro◆ Expanding sales of general industrial products and Over the last few years, Sumitomo Riko has grown sales through acnew businesses gressively reduce costs, in order to regain our earning power. quisition of orders, but this has not led to an increase in profit. We For hydraulic hoses, we aim to not only expand sales in the Chinese believe this to mean that while products we developed meet the needs ◆ Global development and expansion of sales of autoand Indian markets where the infrastructure demand is high, but also of society, our system and organization had fallen behind in terms of motive products gain greater recognition in the European market. In addition, efforts will the manufacturing environment. In terms of development and sales expansion. we will focus on increasbe made to expand sales of anti-vibration rubber products for rolling To operate our automotive business faster and on a global basis, ing orders by creating products that meet local needs. In China, which stock and promote sales of seismic systems for residential applications. we established the Automotive Business Headquarters in June 2018. has grown into the world’s largest automotive market, the Automotive Furthermore, in September 2018, we established the IoT Device Furthermore, in April 2019, we reorganized our business units in each Products China Sales Headquarters established in April 2019 are Center to speed up the development of sensors and sensor-related region in order to realize flexible operations and management on an products. In March 2019, we developed the diagnostic equipment Vital strengthening sales activities for Japanese, European, U.S. and local appropriate scale in the automotive anti-vibration business which we Sensor which can simultaneously measure vital information such as automakers in China, together with production and development bashave the global top share. Through this, we will provide effective suprespiration and heart rate. This marks the world’s first practical applicaes. In China, the new emission standard China 6 came into effect in port from our mother factory in Japan to our global bases, so as to tion of piezoelectric rubber technology in vital sensing equipment. We major cities from 2019, and is scheduled to be applied nationwide from spread best practices cross-organizationally and reinforce the man2020. Leveraging our track record of sales of environmentally friendly intend to make even greater contributions to people’s lives through ufacturing foundation of our global bases. For the Americas Business hoses in Europe, the U.S. and Japan, we will work on the sales of provision of products to medical institutions, research and developUnit in particular, our priority is to improve productivity in each base China 6-compliant hoses to local automakers. ment institutions, nursing facilities, corporations and so on, to further within the region, while the Europe Business Unit will promote the exMore demand is expected for sound controlling/insulation products develop new products in the healthcare field. pansion of global sales. as environmentally friendly engines with large vibration will increase goGlobal Sales Expansion of Automotive Products Reorganization of Automotive Anti-vibration Business Enhancement of Procurement Functions ▶ The 2022V aims to strengthen sales to overseas automakers ▶ Reorganization of business units by region Establishment of the Global Purchasing Headquarters ▶ Establishment of the New Energy Vehicle Devices Business Unit ▶ Centralize procurement functions for automotive products, and Trends of automotive products sales • Expanding sales to U.S. automakers (e.g., engine mounts certified by suppliers) enhance the global network and procurement activities Four M&As (2013) • Expanding sales to local Chinese automakers Automotive Automotive Anti-Vibration Business Headquarters (Strengthen the sales force) (100 millions of yen) Business Headquarters President & CEO 5,000 4,300 Japan Business Unit 3,934 Overseas 25% Purchasing Department 4,000 18% automakers Asia Business Unit Japanese President & CEO automakers 3,000 China Business Unit Automotive Anti-Vibration Business Headquarters 2,103 2,000 82% 75% Americas Business Unit Engaging in productivity Purchase Planning Department Global Purchasing improvement Virtually Headquarters 1,000 100% Promoting global sales Europe Business Unit expansion Automotive Hose Business Headquarters 0 2012 2017 2022V Targets New Energy Vehicle Developing products for next-generation Purchase Planning Department * Figures for FY2012 and FY2017 do not include sealing materials for wire harness connectors. Responding to increased overseas production by Japanese automakers Devices Business Unit advanced vehicles 4 Message from the President & CEO 2022V — Aiming to Create Social Value Endeavor to become a corporation that contributes to safety, comfort, and the environment for people, society, and the Earth Amid a rapid change in the business environment surrounding ◆ Become a global system supplier that continues to ◆ Achieving targets in environmental and social domains corporations, the Group aims to achieve consistent growth and provide new value A corporation has a mission to protect safety and environment of the strengthen the structure by promoting the 2022V under the folThe Group has established a product development and supply sysEarth and society through generating sales and profit, and thereby lowing three business strategies: creation of new businesses and tem in five key regions of the world: Japan, the Americas, Europe and contributing to the people who live there. The Group undertakes sevnew customers, MONOZUKURI Innovation, and strengthening of Africa, China and South Korea, and other Asian countries. Our aim now eral initiatives to attain non-financial targets according to issues adglobal business foundations. is to become a global system supplier capable of proposing optimal dressed by United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), systems and modules, combining multiple components and functions etc., such as reducing CO2 emissions and waste, coping with water-re◆ What the 2022V aims at to meet the new needs of customers and end users. lated risks, eliminating industrial accidents, and complying with laws Our mid-term management vision, the 2022 Sumitomo Riko Group and regulations. Vision (2022V), aims to simultaneously enhance both corporate value ◆ Reinforcing manufacturing capabilities From the viewpoint of diversity, we aim to create a workplace where and public value to create new social value. We have a global system that extends to 106 locations across 23 diverse human resources can work with vitality. For example, in terms By fully leveraging our core competences of polymer materials techcountries, through which we can steadily supply superb quality prodof gender, we set our goals to have a female employment rate of 30% nology and comprehensive evaluation technology, we work not only ucts to consistently satisfy our customers in every region of the world. or more and 30 female managers (non-consolidated). Under these to grow our existing businesses, but also engage in research and deThe issue we face now is to reinforce our manufacturing capabilities goals, we work on our hiring activities, expansions of systems to supvelopment for products and materials with new value. The products in our production bases worldwide. By firmly establishing the manuport childrearing and family care, internal and external networking, and and services generated from these efforts will be expanded into the facturing foundation in Japan where our mother factory is based, fully trainings for qualified employees. From a global perspective, with a tarfour business fields of automotive (mobility), infrastructure and housing maturing it in Japan and then implementing it overseas, we can further get of 30% or more of locally hired site managers, we offer leadership environment, electronics, and healthcare, to create new social value. strengthen our manufacturing foundation overseas and create strong training to prospective candidates in order to promote the appointment workplaces to prevail over competition. of promising global human resources. The Group also works on responsible procurement. One of the examples is our ongoing visits since 2016 to natural rubber plantations and processing manufacturers in Southeast Asia from which we mainly procure rubbers, in order to observe working environments and human rights. Sumitomo Riko Group Mission 2022V Financial Objectives 2022V Non-financial Objectives *compared with the emission intensity in 2017 At the Sumitomo Riko Group, Numerical Indicators Items Objectives FY2018 results ▶ Inspired by the Sumitomo Spirit, through technological innovation, we strive to resolve the issues facing society, as objectives embodied in the SDGs and other initiatives. CO2 reduction 8% reduction* 2% reduction Net sales ¥530 billion ▶ By enhancing corporate value and public value simultaneously, we aim to create social value and achieve sustainEnvironment Waste reduction 5% reduction* 2.4% reduction able growth together with society. Operating profit ¥25 billion Surveyed water-related risks — Global Excellent Manufacturing Company — Operating profit ratio 5% Addressing Develop wastewater at all production bases of the Creation of Social Value A corporation that contributes to safety, comfort, and the environment for people, society, and the Earth water risk recycling technology Group and confirmed that ROA pressing risks were minor Corporate Value Definition: Economic value that a company created during a fixed period (Operating profit to total assets) 6% Frequency rate Financial Objectives KPIs: Net sales, profit, ROE, ROA, rate of return of investment, WACC, etc. Frequency rate of all industrial of all industrial Zero industrial accident accidents 0.46 Society accidents Definition: SDGS promotion through contribution to the society and local community such as resolving social ROE Participation rate of global Public Value issues and creating jobs (Return on equity attributable to 7% Compliance executive training shall Participation rate 92% Non-financial Objectives KPIs: Enhancement of environmental technology, development of environmentally friendly products, zero occupaowners of the parent company) training be 100% tional accidents, business expansion in emerging markets LINK Sumitomo Riko Mid-term Business Vision (2022V) LINK 2022V Non-financial objectives https://www.sumitomoriko.co.jp/english/ir/vision.html https://www.sumitomoriko.co.jp/english/csr/portal/22v/ index.html 5 Message from the President & CEO 2022V — Supporting the Future of Automobiles Turning a once-in-a-century grand transformation phase into an opportunity for dramatic growth The automotive products business, which is our primary line of ◆ Sumitomo Riko’s initiatives aimed at CASE possible. Greater use can be expected for air conditioning hoses that business, is undergoing a grand transformation phase symbolThe Company appraises these changes in the business environment achieve highly efficient heat exchange. The Group has commercialized ized by CASE. Leveraging our long-cultivated technology, we will both in terms of business opportunities and risks. In order to turn these a compact IHX (internal heat exchanger) utilizing modular technology offer products that support the transformation of society. into an opportunity for dramatic growth, we engage in creation and from the former Dytech, and a highly efficient piping layout that reduces development of products which bring new value to automobiles, not the weight and space required, and has supplied them to a wide range ◆ Business opportunities made possible by CASE to mention working on expanding sales of promising products in our of vehicle models. Ever since automobiles became a part of our lives from the early 20th existing business fields. ● Polyurethane and seal products century, the industrial world as well as our daily lives have become vastly convenient. Yet at the same time, the automotive industry, which ● Anti-vibration rubber products As EVs develop, the expansion of demand is expected for heat conSumitomo Riko is a part of, is confronted by global issues such as a risIn our existing business fields, the electrification of vehicles and the adducting & sound reducing materials to counter the heat and noise gening number of traffic accidents due to the rapid increase in the number vancement of autonomous driving are expected to spur new demand erated by motors. Our sound reducing enclosure for EV motors curof vehicles, along with air pollution and destruction of the environment. for highly-functional anti-vibration rubber products to counter motor rently under development minimizes noise from the motor through the Against such background, CASE—standing for Connected (C), vibrations and other road noise while driving. The Company supplies sound-absorbing property of urethane foam, while lowering the surface Autonomous (A), Sharing (S), Electrification (E)—assigns completely a motor mounting system exclusively designed for commercial electric temperature of the motor by creating escape paths for heat within the new value standards and roles to automobiles. vehicles (EVs). urethane foam. This is already commercially available for small motors, In order to seize the opportunities offered by the changes and needs and is now in the process of being upscaled for EV motors. generated by the advances in these four domains, Sumitomo Riko will ● Automotive hoses Sealing materials tightly seal connectors linking wire harnesses of leverage its vibration and noise control technology refined in the develautomobiles and protect the wiring inside by preventing ingress of waThough fuel hoses will decrease with the rise of EVs, the demand for opment of anti-vibration rubber products, together with fluid conveyter or dust. Demands for wire harnesses in automobiles are increasing cooling systems such as batteries and inverters will increase. In particance technology honed through hose development, to respond to the year by year due to the shift to EVs and other factors, and also greater ular, EVs which consume large amounts of electricity require high-efonce-in-a-century paradigm shift through contributions to the safety, demands for sealing materials is anticipated in the future. ficiency air conditioning systems consuming as little electric power as comfort, and the environment of people, society, and the Earth. Examples of EV Application Initiatives Example of Development for EVs Nissan LEAF Sound reducing enclosure for EV motors ▶ Motor mounts (first and current models) Reduce surface ▶ Stabilizer bush (same as above) temperature of motors ▶ Water hose (first model) Mitsubishi i-MiEV ▶ Components of motor mounts Reduce motor noise by 10 dB Sumitomo Riko products used in successive models of LEAF A single solution for problems of heat and noise from motors Nissan LEAF 6 Message from the President & CEO 2022V — Supporting the Future of Automobiles ◆ New fields for automobiles initiated by CASE ● Heat management ogy, combined with our precision processing technology, ensures the The Advanced Automotive Systems R&D Center was launched in 2016 In heat management, we have successfully developed a high-perforperformance enhancement, downsizing and lightening, and long-term in readiness for changes in forthcoming social needs and the evolution mance coating which can insulate heat with only a tenth of the thickness reliability of fuel cell stacks. of automobiles. This was followed by the New Energy Vehicle Devices of previous products, making a high heat insulation possible with a thin Business Unit, established within the Automotive Anti-Vibration Business coating. Applying this coating to various base materials works effec◆ Unearthing value for the future Headquarters in 2019 to reinforce product developments for next-generatively in improving the rate of electric power consumption especially for The seeds of future businesses for the Group are already beginning to tion advanced vehicles and acceleration of strategic sales expansion. electric vehicles, and at the same time adds to the spaciousness and take root in business fields outside automobiles. To take healthcare We focus especially on biological sensing, heat management, and sealcomfort inside the vehicle. as an example, we have jointly developed with Kyushu University the ing as new fields expected to grow under CASE. We are also developing a cooling system by applying the fluid conveyActive Mattress “Taiatsu Bunsan,” which utilizes the aforementioned ance technology perfected in our hoses. A key factor in EVs is a need to SR. This mattress constantly measures pressures on the entire body, ● Biological sensing process the heats generated by batteries and motors. Managing these pinpointing high-pressure areas to help prevent bedsores. It is highly In biological sensing, a steering touch sensor used in hands off detection heats improves the rate of electric power consumption, and is particrated by both patients and caregivers for its user-friendliness. steering wheel is considered promising, which utilizes Smart Rubber (SR), ularly effective in preventing a fall in the cruising distance when the air a proprietary rubber material of the Company that conducts electricity. This conditioning is in use. In addition, Sumitomo Riko’s heat management ◆ Supporting society through manufacturing product is embedded in the steering wheel to sense via SR whether the products, which make efficient use of the heat generated by batteries Sumitomo Riko will support the transformation of society heralded by driver is actually gripping the handle or not. In the next generation of autonand motors, are highly expected for their potential. CASE through manufacturing, making full use of present and future omous driving, this could, for example, enhance the safety of driving when technologies. Furthermore, the Company is giving its focus on the de● Sealing a driver switches between autonomous driving and manual driving, by acvelopment of SR sensors in the healthcare field, looking toward a balcurately sensing the status of the driver. In view of the coming of the age In sealing, our efforts are focused on rubber sealing materials for fuel ance between industry and society that benefits people with better lives. of autonomous driving, it is a product expected to take a role in avoiding cell vehicles. Since 2014, Sumitomo Riko has supplied a cell gasket, As such, Sumitomo Riko seeks to contribute to solving social chaldangerous situations. a rubber sealing material that bonds components, for use in fuel cell lenges of the SDGs, such as climate change, good health and well-bestacks of Toyota Motor Corporation’s fuel cell vehicle MIRAI. The highly ing, and the development of sustainable cities and communities. functional rubber developed by our proprietary compounding technolNew Fields for Automobiles Initiated by CASE Steering Touch Sensor Used in Hands Off Cell Gasket Adopted in MIRAI SR Active Mattress “Taiatsu Bunsan” Detection Steering Wheel New fields Examples of initiatives • Steering wheel to detect the switchover Biological sensing to autonomous driving • High heat insulation materials to improve in-vehicle comfort Heat management • Cooling systems utilizing fluid conveyance technology for electric vehicles • Cell gasket, a rubber sealing material for It prevents bedsores by enlarging or compressing air cells inside the Sealing Embedded in a steering wheel, it detects whether a driver is actufuel cell vehicles (FCVs) ally gripping the handle or not. It corresponds with levels 2 to 3 of mattress according to the user’s body frame and sleeping position, Toyota MIRAI autonomous driving. making a tailor-made pressure distribution possible. 7 Message from the President & CEO Our Governance Structure Forming a sound governance structure as a listed subsidiary The ideal state of corporate governance has been a significant the directive to raise the percentage of Outside Directors, which are ◆ Corporate Governance Structure focus of attention. Sumitomo Riko is ceaselessly working on imdiscussed by the government at Growth Strategy Council-Investing for Organization form Company with Audit & Supervisory Board provements, aiming for a sound management with consideration the Future, etc. Shareholders Meeting to minority shareholders, incorporating opinions from outside the Company through efforts such as increasing the number of ◆ Ensuring objectivity in officer election and remuneration Selection/Dismissal Selection/Dismissal Selection/Dismissal Board of Directors Audit & Supervisory Outside Directors. In corporate management, a greater objectivity is desirable for both Attendance/ Board Independent Auditor 6 Directors Audit 2 members Cooperation the election of officers and their remuneration. Regarding the election KPMG AZSA LLC 3 Outside Directors 3 outside members ◆ Election of Outside Directors and measures to of officers, our stance is to elect persons who are knowledgeable of Consultation Conduct accounting audit strengthen governance the Company’s management and business and capable of meeting Nomination and Remuneration Audit & Supervision Report Advisory Committee Supervisory Sumitomo Riko is a subsidiary of Sumitomo Electric Industries, which shareholder expectations concerning execution of duties. Moreover, Report Board Members’ Consultation Office has a 50.7% equity stake in the Company (including indirect ownerthe Company elects persons with a high degree of independence as Governance Committee ship). As a listed company, it is our duty to pay consideration to stakeOutside Directors, taking into consideration the fact that the Company Report Audit holders such as our minority shareholders, while engaging in highly is a listed subsidiary. In order to enhance objectivity in the procedures Executive Division Report transparent management looking outside the Company. for the election and/or dismissal of Directors and Audit & Supervisory President & CEO Consultation The scandals reported about some other companies over recent Board Members as well as remuneration for Directors (monthly remuCSR Committee Environment Committee Management years are lessons we should objectively learn from. We have explored neration and bonuses), the Nomination and Remuneration Advisory Compliance Committee Meeting the ideal state of a sound corporate governance and given priority to Committee provides opinions on matters to be resolved at the General Safety and Health Committee Internal Audit Department Quality Committee improving our management structure to incorporate the opinions of Meeting of Shareholders. The Board of Directors in turn makes a deciSocial Contributions Committee Internal audits and Promotion external stakeholders through efforts such as increasing the number sion while respecting such opinions. Diversity Committee & assessment of the development of systems to of Outside Directors. The Nomination and Remuneration Advisory Committee conSupply Chain Committee ensure the appropriateness Risk Management Committee of financial reports As one of the initiatives, we started to elect two Outside Directors sists of one Representative Director and three Outside Directors. An from 2014, increasing the number to three from 2018, with the incluOutside Audit & Supervisory Board Member also serves as an observDepartments and Sections sion of one female Outside Director. In June 2019, we established a er. Previously, the Nomination and Remuneration Advisory Committee Cross-sectional control Subsidiaries Governance Committee as an advisory body to the Board of Directors, was chaired by the Representative Director. However, from February appointing an Outside Director to be the chairperson. Outside Directors 2019, the Lead Independent Outside Director has taken the role of LINK Corporate Governance now make up a third of the total Directors, promptly complying with the chairperson, in order to realize a structure with greater objectivity. https://www.sumitomoriko.co.jp/english/company/management/ Our Relationship with Sumitomo Electric Industries and its Merits Column Leveraging the merits of a listed subsidiary Initiatives to strengthen the governance structure (1) Relationship (as of March 31, 2019) As a member of the Sumitomo Electric Industries Group, we aspire to 2005 Executive Officer system introduced Ratio of voting rights held (%) leverage synergy with the parent company in our management. Sumitomo Financial instruments exchanges, etc. on 2012 Business Headquarters system introduced Name Attribution Portion Portion Electric Industries has multiple overseas bases, diverse technologies and directly subject to Total which shares issued are listed customer bases, through which it provides us with supports in many ways 2014 General Managers Meeting (GMM) launched owned aggregation for our overseas operations and development of new businesses. First Section, Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc. On the other hand, we ensure that our decision making is independent 2015 Group Governance Committee established Sumitomo Parent First Section, Nagoya Stock Exchange, Inc. Electric 49.66 1.03 50.69 from the parent company, in consideration of the common interests of our company Securities Membership Corporation, 2016 Nomination and Remuneration Advisory Committee established Industries shareholders. To ensure our independence, we require regular reporting to Fukuoka Stock Exchange the Board of Directors on our trade with the parent company, as well as an Information Exchange Meeting among Outside Directors/ approval for such trade from the Board of Directors according to its scale 2016 (2) Merits Audit & Supervisory Board Members launched and nature. Category Description 2016 Area-based (Americas, Europe, China and Asia) GMM launched Our trade with the Sumitomo Electric Industries Group primarily cenBusiness foundation Shared customer base, use of infrastructure, joint purchasing, etc. ters on sales of products (sealing materials for wire harness connectors) 2017 Group Company Management Meeting launched for Sumitomo Wiring Systems (a 100% subsidiary of Sumitomo Electric Global deployment Strategic and collaborative cultivation of global markets, etc. Industries). These transactions make up approximately 1% of our consoli2019 Appointed the Lead Independent Outside Director Research and development Development of new automotive products through collaboration within the dated net sales. Our future policy is to enhance coordination in research and Established the Governance Committee of next-generation technology Sumitomo Electric Industries Group development for next-generation automobiles. 2019 (upgraded from the Group Governance Committee) 8 Message from the President & CEO The Company We Aspire to Be — Thriving on the Sumitomo Spirit and Manufacturing DNA The manufacturing capabilities rooted on site are the essentials of In 1976, we started Foreman Training* as an initiative to develop human resources through improvement activities on site. This program Sumitomo Riko’s competitiveness has continued uninterruptedly down to the present day, improving onsite capabilities and developing our human resources. The Foreman Our aim is to become a Global Excellent Manufacturing Company Training is part of Sumitomo Riko’s DNA shaping our manufacturing capabilities and culture, and also the source of our on-site capabilities. The Group practices business management based on the Sumitomo ◆ As a responsible member of society By passing on the manufacturing DNA honed in Japan to the future, Spirit, which is to accord “Shinyo-kakujitsu” and “Fusu-furi.” We Sumitomo Riko aims to achieve the 2022V vision while also further refining the manufacturing capabilities of Sumitomo will pass on to the future our manufacturing DNA embedded in our through its commitment to and practical action for Riko and spreading them worldwide, we intend to secure our place in long traditions, while continuing to supply products being trusted the UN Global Compact and the SDGs. We signed the future as a manufacturing company. worldwide. the UN Global Compact in 2014, and since then We will take pride in our identity as a Japanese manufacturing have practiced responsible corporate activities company that places a great value in fine workmanship and superior ◆ To become a company we aspire to be in line with the ten principles in the four areas of quality, centered on our long cultivated core competences of polymer Since joining the Sumitomo Group in 1937, the Group has practiced human rights, labor, environment and anti-corrupmaterials technology and comprehensive evaluation technology. While business management based on the Sumitomo Spirit, which is to action. In 2018, we also signed the Tokyo Principles for Strengthening faithfully continuing to cherish the Sumitomo Spirit “Shinyo-kakujitsu” cord “Shinyo-kakujitsu” and “Fusu-furi,” as well as on its own manageAnti-Corruption Initiatives of the Global Compact Network Japan, and and “Fusu-furi,” we will continue to evolve toward a dramatic growth ment philosophy. reflected them in the revision of our Compliance Conduct Guidelines. to become a Global Excellent Manufacturing Company that is trusted In order to update the management foundations to meet the deFurthermore, by adapting to transformations such as CASE in automoby all our stakeholders. mands of society, in April 2019 we revised the Corporate Action Charter, biles, we will contribute through our main business operations to solve * Foreman Training is a program for those aspiring to become a supervisor. Started in 1976, it has never ceased operation even for a single day, and is now our longest-running training prowhich serves to put our management philosophy into practice, and the the social issues as outlined in the SDGs. gram in the Company’s history. The program has altered its approaches to the most important Compliance Conduct Guidelines, which outline the rules of conduct issues to be dealt with according to the changing times. By identifying facts from confirmation for officers and employees. This revision of the Charter of Corporate ◆ Taking Japanese manufacturing to the world at the actual process with the actual part and through repeating the process of solving the issues identified, the program fosters human resources who are capable of engaging in imBehavior was based on the commitment to the SDGs and the revision Since the founding of Sumitomo Riko in 1929, we have accurately asprovement activities on site independently. of the Charter of Corporate Behavior of the Japan Business Federation sessed the directions of the times and market needs, steadily expand(KEIDANREN). It added items such as sustainable economic growth ed our business areas from automotive products and general industrial and resolution of social issues by development of products and serproducts to new fields, and made available to the world products with vices through innovation, responsible procurement, respect for human high added value. rights, and diversity & inclusion and work style reform. The Sumitomo Spirit Sumitomo Riko Group Management Philosophy Business Principles In light of the Sumitomo Spirit, all of us at the Sumitomo Riko Group will: Quoted from the Sumitomo Goshi Kaisha Administrative Regulations formulated in 1928 1 We will provide superior products and services to meet customer needs Shinyo-kakujitsu based on technological innovation. Article 1. Sumitomo shall achieve prosperity based on a solid foundation by 2 We will place top priority on safety and work to ensure the safety of placing prime importance on integrity and sound management in the conduct of its business. people and society. 3 We will strive to protect the global environment and to contribute to Fusu-furi Article 2. Sumitomo’s business interests must always be in harmony with the creating better communities. public interest. Sumitomo shall adapt to good times and bad times 4 We will maintain a high standard of corporate ethics and observe but will not pursue immoral business. all laws and regulations to earn public trust and confidence worldwide. 5 We will foster an invigorating corporate culture that respects LINK Business Policy https://www.sumitomoriko.co.jp/english/company/message/ our employees’ diversity, personal qualities, and individuality. Tetsu Matsui, President & CEO 9 Corporate Governance Messages from Outside Directors Outside Director About remuneration for Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members Masaaki Iritani I have taken the positions of chairperson of the Nomination and Remuneration Advisory Committee, and the Lead Independent Outside Director. This Committee acts as a discretionary advisory body established based on resolutions of the Board of Directors, in order to realize transparency and impartiality in the decision-making process. It LINK Corporate Governance consists of one Representative Director, three Independent Outside Directors, and one Independent Outside Audit & https://www.sumitomoriko.co.jp/english/company/management/ Supervisory Board Member (observer). It discusses and provides opinions on matters concerning the remuneration and bonuses for Directors, as well as contents of proposals for the election and/or dismissal of Directors and Audit Specialization & Supervisory Board Members to be submitted to the General Meeting of Shareholders, based on consultation. For the nomination and remuneration of officers, while considering factors such as the Company’s management strategy, management plan, business results, financial condition, and management Law environment, it is important to deliberate whether or not the person in question is able to lead the Company for sustainable growth and creation of social value (enhancing corporate value and public value) and capable of contributing to appropriate governance; and whether or not the remuneration serves to raise the sound entrepreneurial spirit while reflecting the Company’s mediumto long-term business Management results and potential risks. I will continue to fulfill my duties as an Independent Outside Director with integrity so that the Committee can contribute to the greater development of the Company. Outside Director About the Governance Committee Shigeru Hanagata The Governance Committee was established on June 1 this year as an advisory body to the Board of Directors. It consists of Representative Directors, Outside Directors, and Audit & Supervisory Board Members, and I, an Outside Director, was appointed as the chairperson. LINK Corporate Governance As a listed subsidiary of Sumitomo Electric Industries, Ltd., the Company must secure its independence from https://www.sumitomoriko.co.jp/english/company/management/ Specialization the controlling shareholders, while striving to appropriately cooperate with the Company’s minority shareholders, employees, trading partners, local communities, and other stakeholders. Management The independence of the Board of Directors has been enhanced by having a third of its members made up of Independent Outside Directors including myself. In cases where a conflict of interest with the International controlling shareholders occurs, the Governance Committee deliberates in full and provides opinions to the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors in turn deliberates while giving sufficient consideration business to the Committee’s opinions. The Corporate Governance Code was revised in June last year to adapt to the changing times. Now in its second stage, the next task is to materialize it further from “form” to “substance,” seeking to Finance and achieve sustainable growth and enhancement of corporate value over the medium to long term. As we make progress in our governance-based initiatives to secure a sound footing and transparency, I hope accounting to contribute to achieving consistent growth and strengthening the structure as outlined in 2022V. Outside Director Connecting diversity management to corporate growth Mariko Miyagi The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) show us the picture of a future to build better lives, and companies are expected to actively play their roles to achieve those goals. Diversity management is advocated as the management practice of employing a diverse range of human resources and providing opportunities for each person to show LINK CSR Information Website (Diversity) their capabilities to the full, which leads to innovation and new value creation. It places value on diversity, in terms https://www.sumitomoriko.co.jp/english/csr/portal/?theme=diversity Specialization of gender, age, nationality, religion, values, etc., and is judged by the degree to which it achieves inclusiveness of diverse human resources while creating workplace environments where people can be motivated to work. Management In terms of promotion of gender equality and active participation by women, Sumitomo Riko has lifted its hiring rate of female new recruits in the fiscal year 2019 to 27.5% (up from 20.4% in 2015). However, the percentage of female managers remains at 1.1% (non-consolidated). It is imperative that we enable diverse and flexible work practices for both men and women, to match each life stage such Diversity as marriage, childrearing, and family care, and create an organization where employees are motivated and can enjoy working, while making the maximum use of their skills. Based on Sumitomo’s credo of “people are our most important asset,” I hope to fulfill my role as Outside Director to promote diversity management and empowerment of female employees. Human resources development 10 Financial Policy Financial Strategy and Policy for Management of Investment in Growth ◆ Financial strategy ◆ Management of investment in growth ◆ Enhancement of corporate value by risk mitigation 2022V financial strategy The Sumitomo Riko Group expanded its scale of business globally The Sumitomo Riko Group is accelerating global business development In the Sumitomo Riko Group 2022 Vision, the Group is aiming to through vigorous M&A and investment in new facilities. The Group with the aim of becoming a “Global Excellent Manufacturing Company” achieve consolidated net sales of ¥530.0 billion in 2022 and has set manages investment in growth that underpins an increase in cash flow and is strengthening risk management to respond to increasing risks the following KPI objectives: operating profit ratio of 5%, ROA of 6%, from operating activities, which is the source of enhancing corporate in line with the expansion of the scope of the business. By preventing and ROE of 7%. In order to achieve the ROA and ROE objectives, we value, based on the Sumitomo Riko Group Investment Profitability risks materializing, we are seeking to reduce the cost of capital and will strive to improve the asset turnover through efficient use of working Criteria, a framework for swiftly responding to post-investment change enhance corporate value so as to realize sustainable growth. capital on a continuous basis as well as strengthening management of in the business environment, and the Financial Discipline Guidelines. investment in growth. ◆ Group financing Sumitomo Riko Group investment profitability criteria The regional management companies in the U.S., China, Thailand, and Cost of equity The Sumitomo Riko Group established unified criteria for investment Europe act as the financial bases, effectively managing funds by ensurThe Sumitomo Riko Group formulates its financial strategy based on profitability to be applied throughout the Group in 2010 in order to effiing no excess or deficiency of funds at the regional bases, in order to a cost of equity of little less than 7%, which is calculated as the sum ciently promote investment for expanding business globally. We check compress external loans. The risk of foreign exchange losses due to of the 30-year Japanese government bond yield (below 1%) and the profitability of contemplated investment projects and make decisions currency fluctuations such as depreciation in emerging market currenequity risk premium (approx. 6%). that also reflect the business strategy. For examining profitability of incies is minimized by strengthening the control of the asset and liability vestments, in addition to the payback period method, which we have positions for each currency. ◆ Financial discipline been using for some time, we use net present value (NPV) and internal The Sumitomo Riko Group has set guidelines for financial discipline, rate of return (IRR) based on the discounted cash flow (DCF) method. ◆ Efficient use of working capital that is, to maintain equity attributable to owners of the parent ratio of The discount rate we use is the hurdle rate, which is the weighted avWe have been promoting the Cash Conversion Cycle (CCC) improve50% or higher for the medium to long term. By observing the guideerage cost of capital (WACC) adjusted by country risks and the WACC ment initiatives since fiscal 2014 throughout the Group. The aim is to lines, financial stability has been secured even while promoting investspread. Using these approaches, we aim to achieve a performance secure cash required for running the business by shortening the collecment in growth to boost operating cash flows. exceeding WACC over the medium to long term. tion period of accounts receivable, reducing inventories, and extending the payment period of accounts payable, thereby achieving efficient Framework for responding to change in the business use of working capital. environment If the business environment is greatly different from the assumption at the time of investment decision-making, risks increase, such as a delay in harvesting returns on investment and deterioration of profitability. In 2014 the Sumitomo Riko Group established a framework for ■ Cost of equity swiftly considering a strategic restructuring plan for any project that has ■ Approach to ROE improvement been falling short of the target. This framework enables minimization of Cost of Risk-free Equity risk risks of profitability deterioration resulting from change in the business ROE Profitability Efficiency Financial leverage equity rate premium environment and reallocation of resources to businesses with higher Less than Less than Approx. growth potential to enhance investment efficiency of the entire Group. Profit Profit Sales Total assets 7% 1% 6% Equity Sales Total assets Equity * The risk-free rate references the 30-year Japanese government bond yield The equity risk premium is calculated using our beta (approx. 1) and the market risk premium (approx. 6%) * Profit is profit attributable to owners of the parent company. ■ Approach to hurdle rate for investment projects Equity is equity attributable to owners of the parent company. • Approach to improve each element Profitability : Improve the profit ratio via growth investment Hurdle Country risks, management WACC rate etc. Efficiency : Manage funds effectively by improving the cash conversion cycle (CCC) and by introducing group financing Financial leverage : Manage leverage based on financial discipline 11 Financial Information Long-term Trends in Performance Indicators (Consolidated results) (FY) KPI 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Unit Japanese GAAP Japanese GAAP Japanese GAAP Japanese GAAP Japanese GAAP Japanese GAAP Japanese GAAP Japanese GAAP IFRS IFRS IFRS IFRS Results of Operations Net sales Millions of yen 311,995 274,392 234,131 272,488 252,008 263,725 369,093 400,930 424,485 422,630 462,885 469,705 Business profit *1 Millions of yen — — — — — — — — 14,528 14,564 12,860 9,379 Operating profit Millions of yen 24,704 6,079 10,799 16,796 12,815 9,204 13,577 10,492 12,867 13,600 12,196 1,153 Profit attributable to owners of the parent company Millions of yen 14,241 1,141 3,579 9,940 6,089 3,003 4,076 (4,429) 2,901 5,195 3,528 (5,022) Business profit to sales — — — — — — — — — 3.4% 3.4% 2.8% 2.0% Operating profit to sales — 7.9% 2.2% 4.6% 6.2% 5.1% 3.5% 3.7% 2.6% 3.0% 3.2% 2.6% 0.2% Profit attributable to owners of the parent company to sales — 4.6% 0.4% 1.5% 3.6% 2.4% 1.1% 1.1% (1.1%) 0.7% 1.2% 0.8% (1.1%) Results by business Automotive Net sales Millions of yen 251,257 219,056 185,540 217,524 193,728 210,267 312,439 344,023 369,149 362,367 393,440 398,160 segment *1 Products Profit Millions of yen 20,422 4,828 9,568 13,440 9,056 7,080 9,642 7,924 13,012 13,217 9,766 7,771 General Industrial Net sales Millions of yen 60,738 55,336 48,591 54,964 58,280 53,458 56,654 56,907 55,336 60,263 69,445 71,545 Products Profit Millions of yen 4,282 1,251 1,231 3,356 3,759 2,124 3,935 2,568 1,517 1,347 3,094 1,608 Results by geographical Japan Net sales Millions of yen 229,300 193,779 174,666 187,477 188,697 183,131 185,156 183,205 188,911 198,985 213,020 214,033 segment *1 Profit Millions of yen 14,694 (564) 3,887 5,356 5,883 440 4,943 2,390 (267) (1,206) (135) (1,147) before intersegment Americas Net sales Millions of yen 65,566 54,248 38,640 53,953 39,102 50,451 83,029 94,650 100,436 96,376 102,804 105,269 elimination Profit Millions of yen 3,558 1,251 1,793 3,418 1,954 3,933 4,543 5,069 4,656 3,241 2,311 (894) Asia Net sales Millions of yen 38,777 42,383 41,119 59,857 52,192 61,690 98,762 113,105 127,752 121,795 140,425 144,645 Profit Millions of yen 5,250 4,757 5,210 8,236 4,832 4,902 9,095 9,874 13,131 13,835 13,099 13,447 Europe and Net sales Millions of yen 13,940 13,217 6,520 5,365 5,517 5,529 46,977 58,230 57,044 54,370 60,688 59,300 others Profit Millions of yen 1,353 608 (142) (152) 91 1 (1,804) (3,293) (1,604) (142) (1,518) (1,032) Financial Position Total assets Millions of yen 254,263 218,965 238,951 244,638 260,600 324,134 383,005 406,777 385,371 404,799 414,233 397,279 Total equity Millions of yen 155,501 141,175 147,249 154,219 156,932 172,918 189,007 199,225 178,494 179,789 184,459 176,598 Equity attributable to owners of the parent Millions of yen 147,275 134,063 138,958 144,874 148,286 159,908 172,230 179,687 159,893 161,293 164,379 158,319 Cash Flows Cash flows from operating activities Millions of yen 31,367 22,704 34,543 27,997 12,421 19,692 17,756 19,547 29,854 33,161 31,622 31,462 Cash flows from investing activities Millions of yen (27,312) (29,765) (11,528) (13,899) (23,771) (36,814) (51,722) (17,184) (33,990) (32,534) (27,445) (28,251) Cash flows from financing activities Millions of yen (2,343) 10,662 (6,622) (4,433) 1,883 24,557 13,558 2,692 (1,106) 10,715 (6,127) (8,368) Other Data Capital expenditure (based on purchase of property, plant and equipment) Millions of yen 28,487 27,437 10,277 14,938 20,191 25,295 31,334 29,699 30,538 25,548 24,728 25,180 Depreciation and amortization Millions of yen 19,151 20,774 19,638 18,543 12,621 14,672 21,468 23,301 26,215 26,664 28,766 29,781 R&D expenses Millions of yen 7,909 8,371 7,617 8,182 8,660 9,698 11,673 12,821 14,215 14,614 14,796 15,002 Per Share Data Net assets per share Yen 1,418 1,291 1,338 1,395 1,428 1,540 1,659 1,731 — — — — Equity attributable to owners of the parent company per share Yen — — — — — — — — 1,540 1,553 1,583 1,525 Profit attributable to owners of the parent company per share (basic) Yen 137 11 34 96 59 29 39 (43) 28 50 34 (48) Dividends per share Yen 18 14 13 15 15 16 17 18 18 19 20 14 Stock and Dividend Data Consolidated payout ratio — 13.1% 127.4% 37.7% 15.7% 25.6% 55.3% 43.3% — 64.4% 38.0% 58.9% — Dividend on equity attributable to owners of the parent — 1.3% 1.0% 1.0% 1.1% 1.1% 1.1% 1.1% 1.1% 1.1% 1.2% 1.3% 0.9% Other Key Performance Indicators ROA (Business profit to total assets) *2 — 10.1% 2.6% 4.7% 6.9% 5.1% 3.1% 3.8% 2.7% 3.7% 3.7% 3.1% 2.3% ROE (Return on equity attributable to owners of the parent company) — 10.0% 0.8% 2.6% 7.0% 4.2% 1.9% 2.5% (2.5%) 1.8% 3.2% 2.1% (3.1%) Equity attributable to owners of the parent ratio — 57.9% 61.2% 58.2% 59.2% 56.9% 49.3% 45.0% 44.2% 41.5% 39.8% 39.7% 39.9% Net D/E ratio*3 — (0.08) (0.02) (0.17) (0.13) (0.05) 0.05 0.28 0.30 0.38 0.39 0.39 0.40 Asset turnover — 1.3 1.2 1.0 1.1 1.0 0.9 1.0 1.0 1.1 1.1 1.1 1.2 Number of employees Persons 11,836 12,533 12,910 13,549 13,894 18,035 22,546 23,568 23,790 24,453 25,689 26,156 *1 Business profit = Operating profit Other income and expenses (Note) Presentation of KPIs is based on IFRS and they are referred to as follows based on Japanese GAAP. Profit in “Results by business segment” and “Results by geographical segment” is operating income under Japanese GAAP and business profit under IFRS [IFRS → Japanese GAAP] *2 ROA is the ratio of operating income to total assets under Japanese GAAP, instead of the ratio of business profit to total assets. Profit attributable to owners of the parent company → Net income attributable to owners of the parent, Total equity → Net assets, *3 Net D/E ratio = (Interest-bearing debt cash and cash equivalents) / equity attributable to owners of the parent Equity attributable to owners of the parent → Shareholders’ equity, Profit attributable to owners of the parent company per share (basic) → Net income per share, Dividend on equity attributable to owners of the parent → Dividend on equity, Return on equity attributable to owners of the parent company → Return on equity, Equity attributable to owners of the parent ratio → Shareholders’ equity ratio 12 Cautionary statement with regard to forward-looking statements Forward-looking statements such as sales and profits described in this report other than statements of historical or current facts are based on the Sumitomo Riko Group’s assumption and judgment on the basis of information that is currently available with regard to economic situation including forecast of the industry trends of the Sumitomo Riko Group’s each business, fluctuation in exchange rate, and other factors that affect the group’s financial performance. Therefore, please be aware that actual sales and profits may vary materially from those described in this report. The Sumitomo Riko Group does not intend or assume any obligation to update and officially announce these forward-looking statements after the release of this report. Issued in September 2019
