Smart. Easy. DRIVING THE ENERGY FUTURE Annual Report 2018 SMA Solar Technology AG SMA SOLAR TECHNOLOGY AG AT A GLANCE SMA Group 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Sales € million 760.9 891.0 946.7 981.8 805.4 Export ratio % 80.6 81.8 87.9 87.5 78.3 Inverter output sold MW 8,449 8,538 8,231 7,260 5,051 Capital expenditure € million 40.3 33.2 29.0 48.3 75.5 Depreciation € million 82.6 53.2 76.7 77.8 106.5 EBITDA € million –69.1 97.3 141.5 121.1 –58.4 EBITDA margin % –9.1 10.9 14.9 12.3 –7.3 Net income € million –175.5 30.1 29.6 14.3 –179.3 Earnings per share1 € –5.06 0.87 0.85 0.41 –5.16 Employees 2 3,353 3,213 3,345 3,330 5,060 in Germany 2,212 2,077 2,093 2,081 3,469 abroad 1,141 1,136 1,252 1,249 1,591 SMA Group 2018/12/31 2017/12/31 2016/12/31 2015/12/31 2014/12/31 Total assets € million 989.3 1,216.2 1,210.8 1,160.5 1,180.3 Equity € million 424.5 611.5 585.1 570.2 552.0 Equity ratio % 42.9 50.3 48.3 49.1 46.8 Net working capital 3 € million 177.4 167.96 225.4 223.0 251.0 Net working capital ratio 4 % 23.3 18.8 6 23.8 22.3 31.2 Net cash 5 € million 305.5 449.7 362.0 285.6 225.4 1 Converted to 34,700,000 shares 2 Reporting date; without temporary employees 3 Inventories and trade receivables minus trade payables and liabilities from advanced payments received for orders 4 Relating to the last twelve months (LTM) 5 Total cash minus interest-bearing financial liabilities 6 Adjusted prior year value Energy that changes As a leading global specialist for photovoltaic system technology, SMA is setting the standards today for the decentralized and renewable energy supply of tomorrow. More than 3,000 SMA employees in 18 countries have devoted themselves to this task. Our innovative solutions for all photovoltaic applications and our unsurpassed service offer our customers worldwide greater independence in meeting their energy needs. In collaboration with our partners and customers, we are helping people around the world transition to a self-sufficient, decentralized and renewable energy supply. 2 2018 was a challenging year for SMA. Having started the fiscal year with a high order backlog and a ­positive outlook, we were confronted with the continuing shortage of electronic components in the first half of the year and were therefore only able to supply our customers to a limited extent, particularly in the commercial PV systems segment. Unexpectedly at the end of May, the Chinese government drastically reduced its PV expansion targets and solar power subsidies with immediate effect. This led to a collapse of the ­Chinese photo­voltaic market. As a result, Chinese providers increasingly advanced into international markets and caused enormous price pressure in all segments. In the second half of the year, project developers and investors postponed the implementation of photovoltaic projects until the following year in anticipation of a further decline in prices. The storage technology growth segment was also affected by the limited availability of batteries. In this difficult environment, SMA was able to maintain inverter output sold at the high level of the previous year with an accumulated output of around 8.5 gigawatts but was unable to achieve the original sales and earnings annual targets. With sales of €761 million, we had to post a loss of €69 million (EBITDA) influenced by numerous one-time items. RETURN TO PROFITABILITY BY REDUCING COSTS AND INCREASING SALES To quickly and sustainably return SMA to profitability under these changes in the market, early on the ­ anaging Board introduced measures to effectively reduce costs and increase sales. We will complete the M sale of our Chinese companies to the local management in the first quarter of 2019. This will enable us to reduce our fixed costs and better utilize the purchasing, development and production capacities at our headquarters in Niestetal/Kassel. In addition to continued automation of activities and concentrating on our core competencies, reducing our product platforms will also contribute to more cost reductions. This will allow us to shorten development cycles and increase the proportion of components that are used across the entire portfolio. By bringing Development, Sales and Service closer together, we are aligning our corporate structures to focus even more on the needs of our customers over the entire product life cycle. With targeted sales initiatives and the expansion of our strategic partnerships, we will further enhance the appeal our product offerings bring our customers. We always have our strategic objective – continued evolvement of SMA into a systems and solutions provider – and our position in the important future fields of energy management, storage integration, repowering and digital business models in focus. A large part of the measures introduced will take effect as early as 2019. This will help us counter the expected continued high price pressure in all segments. SMA CAN PLAY TO ITS STRENGTHS IN THE ENERGY SUPPLY OF THE FUTURE Falling prices in the solar industry are not only a challenge for us – they also ensure that power generation using photovoltaics becomes increasingly cost-effective and thus more competitive with other energy sources. Increased competitiveness, government sustainability targets around the world and a growing global demand for energy will result in photovoltaics and other renewable energy sources gaining an ever greater share of the energy supply. The experts at Bloomberg New Energy Finance expect that wind energy and PV systems will cover around 50% of global power generation in 2050. Balancing fluctuating feed-in from renewable sources and ensuring a sustainable, secure and cost-effective electricity supply requires comprehensive storage ­capacity, accurate generation and consumption data for there to be reliable forecasting and intelligent energy management across all sectors. SMA Solar Technology AG // Annual Report 2018 3 DR.-ING. JÜRGEN REINERT Chief Executive Officer SMA Solar Technology AG This is precisely where SMA can play to its strengths. No other supplier has comparable experience and ­expertise in system integration of battery-storage systems for all sizes and application areas. More than 1.5 ­million devices are registered worldwide on our Sunny Portal monitoring portal. They provide valuable data that – professionally prepared and effectively anonymized – allow accurate feed-in forecasts. Our Sunny Home Manager is the best-selling household energy management system on the market. With the ennexOS energy management platform, we have created the basis for the on-going development of our product offerings in the areas of energy management and energy market integration for households and companies. SUCCESSFUL ENTRY INTO NEW BUSINESS FIELDS AND FURTHER DEVELOPMENT OF CORE BUSINESS Our subsidiary coneva successfully entered the market for digital energy services in the past fiscal year and is already developing end customer solutions for intelligent energy management in several projects with regional energy suppliers. As a result, suppliers can offer their customers in the residential and commercial sectors appealing options with which they can better position themselves against new competitors. The range of services offered by SMA Energy Data Services was presented at the E-world trade fair in February 2019. Based on real-time data from the Sunny Portal, we offer customized solutions for network operation and planning, marketing of solar power and energy management for grid operators, energy traders, direct marketers and forecasting service providers. We also continued to evolve SMA into a systems and solutions provider in our core business, for example, by developing complete system packages for residential and commercial applications, which have been sold in select markets since the beginning of 2019. Annual Report 2018 // SMA Solar Technology AG 4 MANAGING BOARD EXPECTS GROWTH IN SALES AND EARNINGS IN 2019 As the year progresses, we will launch additional cost-optimized products and solutions for all power classes and applications and gain market shares. The shortage of electronic components has now been largely ­overcome, as have the delivery difficulties with battery manufacturers. Our order volumes since the beginning of the year also indicate that project developers’ and investors’ hesitation is abating and they are again implementing major photovoltaic projects. Against this backdrop, we expect growth in all segments in 2019. The SMA Managing Board anticipates sales to increase to between €800 million and €880 million and a positive EBITDA of between €20 million and €50 million. Having left behind a difficult year for SMA, we are optimistic about our further development. The digitalization and decentralization of the energy supply is steadfastly progressing worldwide and is gaining ever stronger political support against the backdrop of climate change. Even though there will always be challenges in the dynamic environment in which we operate, we are convinced that SMA is well positioned to take advantage of the many opportunities arising from the reorganization of energy supply structures worldwide. Our employees will continue to play a decisive role in our success with their extraordinary commitment. On behalf of the Managing Board, I would like to thank all SMA employees for their high loyalty and trust in the company, even under difficult conditions. Dr.-Ing. Jürgen Reinert Chief Executive Officer SMA Solar Technology AG SMA Solar Technology AG // Annual Report 2018 CONTENTS 5 TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS 6 The Managing Board Team 8 Supervisory Board Report 13 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 25 COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT 26 Basic Information About the Group 45 Fiscal Year 2018 58 Risks and Opportunities Report 68 Forecast Report 73 Other Elements of the Combined Management Report 75 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 82 Notes SMA Group 114 Responsibility Statement 115 Auditor’s Report 121 OTHER INFORMATION 122 Glossary 126 GRI Index and UN Global Compact Principles 128 Sustainability Key Figures 130 Registered Trademarks 130 Disclaimer 6 To Our Shareholders – The Managing Board Team THE MANAGING BOARD TEAM DR.-ING. JÜRGEN REINERT Chief Executive Officer After he studied electrical engineering in South Africa, Dr.-Ing. Jürgen Reinert (b. 1968) received his doctorate at the Institute for Power ­Electronics and Electrical Drives (ISEA) at RWTH Aachen, ­Germany, and began his career as senior engineer there. From 1999 to 2011, he worked for Emotron AB in ­Sweden, where in his last position, as General Manager, he was responsible for Technology and Operations. From 2011 to 2014, as Executive Vice ­President, Technology, he was responsible for the division Power Plant Solutions at SMA. Under his leadership, SMA was successful in expanding its worldwide project business and developing turnkey system solutions for large-scale PV power plants. Since April 2014, Dr. Reinert has been a member of the Managing Board. He was appointed Chief Executive Officer in October 2018. Dr. Reinert is responsible for Strategy, Sales and ­Service, Operations and Technology. He is a member of the Supervisory Board at Danfoss A/S. SMA Solar Technology AG // Annual Report 2018 The Managing Board Team – To Our Shareholders 7 ULRICH HADDING Board Member for Finance, Human Resources and Legal Ulrich Hadding (b. 1968) held different positions at the SCHOTT Group in Germany and abroad for ten years, most recently as Head of Legal & Compliance for SCHOTT Solar AG. He moved to SMA in 2009, initially establishing an internationally ­oriented Legal department and then the Compliance function. He played a major role in nearly all of SMA’s recent M&A activities and ­successively took on further management functions, e. g., for Tax, Insurance, ­Controlling and Financial Project Management. Since the end of 2015, he has been Head of Finance and Legal and member of SMA’s ­Executive Management Committee. Since January 1, 2017, Ulrich Hadding has been a member of the Managing Board with responsibility for Finance, Human Resources and Legal. He also serves as labor ­director of SMA and is responsible for capital ­market communication. Annual Report 2018 // SMA Solar Technology AG 8 To Our Shareholders – Supervisory Board Report SUPERVISORY BOARD REPORT Dear Shareholders, Focus of Supervisory Board Consultations The Supervisory Board examined all material events and discussed SMA had a difficult year to cope with. The photovoltaic market them with the Managing Board at six regular and two extra­ordinary in China shrank. A shortage of components led to long delivery meetings and adopted necessary resolutions in accordance with times. Declining sales and earnings made it necessary for SMA to the law, Articles of Incorporation and Rules of Procedure. The restructure. Supervisory Board attended the vast majority of meetings in full. Especially in these challenging times, collaboration on the Super­ In preparation for the meetings, the Supervisory Board received visory Board and between the Supervisory Board and the Managing written reports from the Managing Board on a regular basis and Board was characterized by openness, intensive and ­constructive on time. At each regular meeting, the subject matter of the deliberadialogue and trust. The Supervisory Board assisted the ­Managing tions were current business developments, the evolution of markets Board in an advisory capacity and continuously monitored the of particular importance to the SMA Group and corporate planManaging Board with regard to the management of the ­Company ning. Members of the Managing Board participated in all regular in accordance with the law, the Articles of Incorporation and the Supervisory Board and Audit Committee meetings, but were not Rules of Procedure. For its part, the Managing Board involved present for discussions of agenda items relating to the Managing the Supervisory Board and its committees early on in all ­decisions Board itself. of fundamental importance to SMA, keeping them regularly, promptly and comprehensively informed by means of written At its meeting on February 8, 2018, the Supervisory Board dealt and oral reports. The subject matter of these reports included all with the Corporate Governance Report included in the 2017 strategy issues relevant to the Company, the market and competAnnual Report, as well as the Supervisory Board Report for 2017. itive situation, and business developments. The Managing Board The Supervisory Board also discussed the content of the Non-­ also reported to the Supervisory Board on the Company’s and Financial Statement presented by the Managing Board. The meetthe Group’s position, sales and results of operations. Furthermore, ing and resolutions also dealt with the evaluation of target achievethe Managing Board presented detailed information on proposed ments and the determination of the variable remunerations of the business policies and other important questions concerning corpoManaging Board. rate planning, in particular financial, investment, production and personnel planning, as well as significant business transactions. At its meeting convened to adopt the accounts on March 22, Deviations in how events actually transpired in comparison to pre2018, the Supervisory Board acknowledged the 2017 Annual viously reported objectives were provided, including reasons for Financial Statements, approved the 2017 Consolidated ­Financial the variances. In addition, the Supervisory Board was informed Statements after in-depth consultation and also passed the proabout the Company’s and the Group’s profitability, above all the posal to the Annual General Meeting on profit appropriation for return on equity, risk and opportunity management, risk status 2017. In addition, it reviewed the proposal for selection of the and compliance. Financial Statements and the Consolidated Financial Statements auditor for 2018. The Supervisory Board also resolved a proposal The Supervisory Board closely scrutinized and discussed business to the Annual General Meeting to modify the Company’s purpose transactions requiring the approval of the Supervisory Board as as specified in the Articles of Incorporation. well as instances where business performance deviated from corporate planning. Even beyond the regular Supervisory Board meetAt its meeting on May 23, 2018, the Supervisory Board focused ings, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board and his deputy were on current issues affecting the product quality of SMA and its comin regular and frequent contact with the Managing Board and petitors. The discussions also covered the Company’s personnel-­ discussed subjects concerning strategy, planning, business develrelated plans, strategies and efforts to reduce its environmental opment, position of risk, risk management and compliance as well impact as well as the stage achieved in establishing SMA’s digital as significant business transactions and upcoming decisions. The business areas. Supervisory Board members took general and specialized training necessary for their tasks on their own accord, and in doing so they At the meeting on May 24, 2018, the Supervisory Board issued received appropriate support from the Company. No Supervisory the audit assignment to the auditors for 2018. Board or Managing Board members reported any conflicts of ­interest to the Supervisory Board. SMA Solar Technology AG // Annual Report 2018 Supervisory Board Report – To Our Shareholders 9 Focus of the Supervisory Board meeting on August 30, 2018, was The Audit Committee convened seven times in 2018, three times the medium-term strategy and possible strategic partnerships for via telephone conferences. The meetings focused on discussing the the Company. In addition, the Supervisory Board familiarized itself Company’s business performance and cost efficiency, the quarwith the Company’s product innovations and product roadmap and terly statements and half-yearly report. In addition, the ­committee discussed the results achieved in the partnership with Danfoss A/S. ­familiarized itself with the main points and overall findings of The future prospects in O&M business were also considered. the auditor for the 2017 Annual Financial Statements and upon review confirmed the auditor’s independence. Because in 2019 At the extraordinary Supervisory Board meetings on October 12 the ­auditor currently appointed by the Annual General Meeting and November 14, 2018, the Supervisory Board considered would reach the maximum duration of uninterrupted activity as stipManaging Board matters and the Managing Board’s proposal ulated in Article 17 (1) sentence 3 of the EU Regulation, it cannot for restructuring the company. be given a new mandate until after a public tender procedure has been carried out. The procedural and tendering process required At its meeting on December 6, 2018, the Supervisory Board for this was discussed by the Audit Committee at several meetonce again dealt in depth with the planned restructuring measures ings. Another key area of the committee’s work was reviewing the and the budget for fiscal year 2019. It also discussed the status of internal risk management systems (Internal Control System, Internew business activities in the field of energy services. In addition, nal Audit and Compliance), with the committee members gatherthe Supervisory Board members considered the efficiency of the ing comprehensive information about these systems’ methods and Supervisory Board and its work. The Managing Board and the effectiveness. Furthermore, the committee handled the half-yearly Supervisory Board also adopted a new Declaration of ­Conformity report prepared by the Internal Audit department and the Complipursuant to Section 161 (1) sentence 1 of the German Stock ance Report ­neither of which showed any significant irregularities ­Corporation Act (AktG) to comply with the recommendations of in SMA business processes. Other topics of the committee meetings the German Corporate Governance Code. were the contents of the Non-Financial Statement of the Company pursuant to Section 289c of the German Commercial Code (HGB) and the extended Auditors’ Report applicable in future. The Audit Focus of Committee Meetings ­Committee also reviewed the recommendation made for the entire board to consider regarding profit appropriation, selecting the To improve the efficiency of the work carried out by the Superauditor for 2018 and granting the audit mandate. visory Board, the Supervisory Board maintains four permanent committees: the Presidial Committee, Audit Committee, ­Nomination The Nomination Committee and Mediation Committee did not Committee and Mediation Committee. You will find the names ­convene in 2018. of the persons appointed to these committees on our website at www.IR.SMA.de as well as in the Corporate Governance Report 2018. Corporate Governance The committees prepare the topics and resolutions to be reviewed In 2018, the Supervisory Board also dealt with German Corporate by the entire Supervisory Board and, within the framework of the Governance Code content. For the year under review, the Super­ competencies transferred to them, they resolve those matters they visory Board and the Managing Board issued a Declaration of have been assigned instead of the Supervisory Board. The content Compliance pursuant to Section 161 of the German Stock Corpoof the committee meetings is reported on by the committee chairration Act (AktG) in compliance with the recommendations of the man at the subsequent plenary session of the Supervisory Board. German Corporate Governance Code and declared two deviaAll members of the Supervisory Board receive the content and tions for 2018. The joint report issued by the Supervisory Board ­resolutions of the committees in writing. and the Managing Board on compliance with the rules of the German Corporate Governance Code pursuant to clause 3.10 of The Presidial Committee met three times in 2018. The committhe German Corporate Governance Code (Corporate Governance tee’s work focused in particular on dealing with matters relating to Report) has been made permanently available on our website at the Managing Board as well as preparing Supervisory Board resowww.IR.SMA.de and is also mentioned on pages 14 et seq. of lutions on Managing Board composition, allocation of responsibilithe Annual Report. This is also where you will find statements on ties and Managing Board remuneration. ­conflicts of interest and how they are handled. Annual Report 2018 // SMA Solar Technology AG 10 To Our Shareholders – Supervisory Board Report Annual Financial Statements Finally, at its meeting held on March 20, 2019, the Supervisory Board approved the Managing Board’s proposal on the approand Consolidated Financial Statements priation of the balance sheet profit. In this respect, the Supervisory The Annual Financial Statements prepared by the Managing Board Board discussed the Company’s liquidity position, the financing of as of December 31, 2018, the Combined Management Report for planned investments and estimated business development. In doing the 2018 fiscal year of SMA AG, the Consolidated Financial Stateso, the Supervisory Board came to the conclusion that the proposal ments as of December 31, 2018, and the Combined Management was in the interests of the Company and the shareholders. Report for the 2018 fiscal year of the SMA Group were audited by the accounting firm Deloitte GmbH, Hannover, Germany. The Supervisory Board granted the audit assignment in accordance Changes to the Managing Board with the resolution adopted by the General Meeting on May 24, and Supervisory Board 2018. Prior to submitting the ­corresponding proposal to the General Meeting regarding appointment of the auditors, the SuperviAs of October 15, 2018, Pierre-Pascal Urbon resigned from the sory Board had obtained the ­auditor’s certificate of independence Managing Board in agreement with the Supervisory Board. During pursuant to clause 7.2.1 of the German Corporate Governance the 14 years he worked at SMA – most recently in the role of Code. The Supervisory Board also monitored the independence of CEO – Pierre-Pascal Urbon played a key role in shaping the Comthe auditor. In addition, it ­handled the assignment of orders to the pany. In particular, he is associated with the IPO, internationalizaauditor for non-audit-­related services. tion and the success of difficult restructuring measures. His vigor and his initiatives greatly helped SMA in both good and bad years. The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company were The Supervisory Board would like to thank Pierre-Pascal Urbon for prepared in line with Section 315a of the German Commercial his enormous dedication to the Company. On the Managing Board Code (HGB) on the basis of the International Financial Reportnow consisting of two members, Dr.-Ing. Jürgen Reinert took on ing Standards (IFRS) as applicable in the EU. The auditor granted the role of CEO. an unqualified audit opinion for the Annual Financial Statements and the Combined Management Report of SMA AG as well as for 2018 was an eventful year for SMA that brought significant the Consolidated ­Financial Statements and the Combined Managechanges. Now it is a matter of combining all forces to restore profitment Report of the SMA Group. ability under the new management. The reporting documents, including the Non-Financial Statement The Supervisory Board would like to thank the Managing Board of the Company, and the Managing Board’s proposal on the and all employees for their dedicated work and their commitment appropriation of profits as well as the audit reports were made to bring SMA successfully through the crisis into a bright future. available to the Supervisory Board in good time. These were first discussed by the Audit Committee at its meetings on February 6, Niestetal, March 20, 2019 2019, and March 19, 2019, with the auditors and then by the The Supervisory Board Supervisory Board at its meeting on March 20, 2019, in the presence of the auditor’s representatives. The auditor’s representatives Dr. Erik Ehrentraut reported on the audit findings and provided detailed explanations Chairman of the net assets, financial position and results of operations of the Company and the Group. The questions posed by the Supervisory Board were answered and the reporting documents were reviewed in detail with the auditor’s representatives and discussed and ­examined by the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board raised no objections after concluding its examination. Thereafter, the findings of the audit were approved. Accordingly, the Supervisory Board approved the Financial Statements prepared by the Managing Board and the related Combined Management Reports for the 2018 fiscal year at its meeting convened to adopt the accounts on March 20, 2019. Hence, the Company’s Annual Financial Statements have been approved as set out in Section 172 of the German Stock ­Corporation Act (AktG). SMA Solar Technology AG // Annual Report 2018 Supervisory Board Report – To Our Shareholders 11 Roland Bent Oliver Dietzel Peter Drews Dr. Erik Ehrentraut Shareholder Representative Employee Representative Shareholder Representative Shareholder Representative (Chairman) Kim Fausing Johannes Häde Heike Haigis Alexa Hergenröther Shareholder Representative Employee Representative Employee Representative Shareholder Representative (Deputy Chairman) Yvonne Siebert Dr. Matthias Victor Hans-Dieter Werner Reiner Wettlaufer Employee Representative Employee Representative Employee Representative Shareholder Representative Annual Report 2018 // SMA Solar Technology AG CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 14 Corporate Governance Report (Including Information on Corporate Governance Practices in Accordance with Sections 289a and 315d of the German Commercial Code (HGB); Part of the Combined Management Report) 18 Information Concerning Takeovers Required by HGB Sections 289a and 315a (Part of the Combined Management Report) 20 Remuneration Report (Part of the Combined Management Report) 14 Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Declaration of Compliance With German ­Corporate Governance Code In this declaration, SMA Solar Technology AG reports on its corporate governance principles in accordance with Section 289f In accordance with Section 161 of the German Stock Corporation (1), (2) and 315d of the German Commercial Code (HGB) and Act, the Managing Board and Supervisory Board of SMA Solar on corporate governance in the Company in accordance with Technology AG declare: Section 161 of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG) and clause 3.10 of the German Corporate Governance Code (DCGK). Since the last Declaration of Compliance dated November 29, The declaration includes the declaration of compliance, information 2017, SMA Solar Technology AG has complied with the recomon corporate governance practices, which comprises information mendations of the Government Commission German Corporate on where they can be accessed by the public, as well as informaGovernance Code in the version dated February 7, 2017, pubtion on the composition and description of the function of the Manlished in the Federal Gazette (Bundesanzeiger) on April 24, 2017, aging Board, Supervisory Board and respective committees and with the exceptions mentioned below in numbers (1) and (2) and material corporate governance structures. will continue to comply with them with the exceptions mentioned: Complying with the principles of good corporate governance is (1) Notwithstanding Article 5.4.1 (2) sentence 2 clause 4 of extremely important to SMA. SMA is guided by the recommendathe German Corporate Governance Code in conjunction with the tions and suggestions in the German Corporate Governance Code targets adopted by the Supervisory Board for its composition, the (DCGK). The Managing Board and Supervisory Board dealt with Supervisory Board includes with Dr. Erik Ehrentraut one member meeting these requirements, especially with the amendments to the who will have reached the age of 75 by the end of the election DCGK in the version dated February 7, 2017. The Company has period. declared emergent deviations from the German Corporate Governance Code in the declaration of compliance of December 6, The Supervisory Board believes it is vital that Dr. Ehrentraut’s many 2018. This declaration is reproduced below and published on our years of experience in managing an internationally active ­company website at www.IR.SMA.de. and in supporting the Company remains available to the Supervisory Board. (2) Notwithstanding Article 5.4.1 (2) sentence 2 clause 5 of the German Corporate Governance Code, the Supervisory Board has decided not to define any maximum limits for terms of office on the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board believes that a limit on the term of office does not account for the specific work of the Supervisory Board members and their profound knowledge of the Company and the market environment. Niestetal, December 6, 2018 The Managing Board The Supervisory Board SMA Solar Technology AG // Annual Report 2018 Corporate Governance 15 Corporate Governance Practices In compliance with the provisions of Section 76 (4) sentence 2 AktG, the Managing Board resolved to set a target of 8% for the The SMA Strategy 2020 comprises a forward-looking vision and proportion of female employees in the first management level mission, the values that all SMA employees align themselves with below the Managing Board and 14.6% for the second level by and clear strategic targets for the years to come. It was presented June 30, 2022. The targets correspond to the current ratio of to all SMA employees worldwide and will provide the strategic ­genders at both management levels as of the date of the resolution. framework for our activities, through which the management and employees will put SMA back on track for success even under changing market conditions. Further details can be found on page Transparency 28 et seq. Transparency is a key element of good corporate governance. Since 2009, SMA has recognized the code of conduct of the Our aim is to provide all shareholders, financial analysts, media ­German Association for Supply Chain Management, Procureand interested members of the public at large with timely informament and Logistics (BME e. V.) and used this as the basis for its tion about our business situation and significant corporate changes. own guidelines for suppliers (SMA Supplier Code). These guideAll important information is also made available on our website lines commit SMA to fair dealings with suppliers. The guidelines at www.SMA.de. Reporting on the business situation and the operare based on, among other things, the UN Global Compact, ating results takes place in the Annual Report, in the press conferthe conventions of the International Labour Organization (ILO) ence on financial statements and in the Quarterly Statements and and the United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Half-Yearly Financial Reports. Furthermore, the public is informed SMA’s objective is to enshrine general principles with regard to through press releases, via social networks and, if stipulated by fairness, integrity and corporate responsibility in business relationlaw, by means of ad hoc statements. In addition, once a year SMA ships. For SMA, these behavioral guidelines also complement its invites investors, analysts and the press to its Capital Markets Day ­mission statement and corporate culture, in which fairness, integto inform them about the market and competition, SMA’s strategic rity and corporate responsibility are deeply rooted. Alongside direction, unique selling propositions and financial developments. these guidelines, the SMA Supplier Code prescribes standards for ­sustainable activity and gives expression to what SMA expects of Transparency is particularly important whenever deliberations suppliers and business partners with regard to social, ecological and Company decisions might lead to conflicts of interest for and ethical issues. The key points of the guidelines are a ban on ­members of the Supervisory Board or Managing Board. Any child labor, forced labor, abuse and discrimination of employees, ­conflicts of interest that may have arisen are therefore disclosed by fighting against corruption, fair working conditions, occupational those members of the corporate bodies affected when discussion health and safety, environmental protection, and quality and prodof the subject commences. The member concerned does not particiuct safety. The BME’s code of conduct is accessible on its website pate in the adoption of any necessary resolutions by the Managing at www.bme.de. The latest version of the SMA Supplier Code is Board or the Supervisory Board. reproduced on the SMA website www.SMA.de/en. According to a disclosure made by the members of the ­Managing In addition, on January 13, 2011, SMA made a declaration to the Board and the Supervisory Board, they held, either directly or indiGeneral Secretary of the United Nations to adopt the ten principles rectly, 9.65% (2017: 10.01%) of all shares issued as of the end of the UN Global Compact as compulsory guidelines for its corpoof the fiscal year. The Managing Board members held a total stake rate governance. The principles of the UN Global Compact define of 0.01% (2017: 0.33%) in the share capital and the Supervisory standards for upholding human rights, the protection of workers’ Board members held a stake of 9.64% (2017: 9.68%) in the share rights, environmental protection and avoidance of corruption. They capital. The cdw foundation, in which Supervisory Board ­members can be viewed on the website www.unglobalcompact.org. Peter Drews and Reiner Wettlaufer act as Managing Board ­members, holds an additional 8.65% (2017: 8.65%). In addition, In January 2012, the Managing Board also enacted the SMA ­Danfoss A/S, in which Supervisory Board member Kim Fausing business principles. The SMA business principles form the heart acts as chief executive officer, holds 20.00% (2017: 20.00%) of of the compliance management system and shape SMA’s values the share capital. into clear behavioral standards. They were drafted in a workgroup ­project led by Group Compliance. The SMA business principles are obligatory for all SMA employees worldwide. Annual Report 2018 // SMA Solar Technology AG 16 Corporate Governance Remuneration Report The Company’s diversity concept for the Managing Board to be described in accordance with Section 289f HGB comprises, in The Remuneration Report is a constituent of the audited Combined part, consideration of the various personal and professional comManagement Report and is shown on pages 20 et seq. of the petencies required to fulfill the respective tasks on the ManagAnnual Report. ing Board. Other elements include decisions on the ­proportion of women on the Managing Board and the age limit for the Managing Board described in Section 1 (4b) of the Supervisory Board’s The Company’s Corporate Bodies Rules of Procedure. The aim of the concept is to best meet the and Their Functions requirements for the work carried out by a Managing Board through a broad and varied range of knowledge and experience. SMA Solar Technology AG is a stock corporation governed by The current makeup of the Managing Board upholds the preGerman law. Accordingly, it possesses a dualistic management scribed age limit and reflects different professions and professional structure in which one corporate body is devoted to managing the backgrounds as well as personal and professional competencies. Company (the Managing Board) and is supervised by another Detailed information about the individual Managing Board memcorporate body (the Supervisory Board). Both bodies are endowed bers is provided on page 6 et seq. with different powers and work closely with one another in an atmosphere of trust when managing and supervising the Company. By October 15, 2018, the Managing Board had comprised the At the Annual General Meeting, electing the auditor and sharefollowing members: Pierre-Pascal Urbon (Chief Executive Officer, holder representatives to the Supervisory Board takes place as Board Member for Strategy, Sales and Service), Dr.-Ing. Jürgen does determining the appropriation of profits, along with making ­Reinert (Deputy Chief Executive Officer, Board Member for Operdecisions that impact member rights of shareholders. ations and Technology) and Ulrich Hadding (Board Member for Finance, Human Resources and Legal). Managing Board Pierre-Pascal Urbon left the company on December 31, 2018, at his own request, after having resigned from the Managing Board The Managing Board is responsible for independently and jointly in agreement with the Supervisory Board on October 15, 2018. managing the Company. It is obliged to sustainably ensure and On the same date, Dr.-Ing. Jürgen Reinert was appointed chief increase the Company value and is responsible for managing executive officer of SMA Solar Technology AG and is ­responsible the business. It decides on fundamental issues of business ­policy for Strategy, Sales and Service in addition to Operations and and corporate strategy as well as on shortand medium-term ­Technology. Ulrich Hadding continues to be responsible for Finance, ­financial planning. The Managing Board is in charge of preparHuman Resources and Legal Affairs and has also assumed responing the Quarterly Statements, Half-Yearly Financial Reports and sibility for Investor Relations and Internal Audit. Annual Financial Statements for SMA Solar Technology AG and the SMA Group, as well as for adherence to all legal and official provisions and internal policies. In compliance with the provisions Supervisory Board in Section 111 (5) AktG, the Supervisory Board set a target of 25% for the proportion of women on the Managing Board in the The Supervisory Board advises the Managing Board in all ­matters period by June 30, 2022. The Supervisory Board strives to achieve and supervises its activity. The Managing Board involves and this target by selecting suitable candidates when appointing new consults with the Supervisory Board on all matters of fundamental ­members to the Managing Board. significance and whenever particularly important business decisions need to be made. Under the Rules of Procedure applicable to the As a collective body, the Managing Board, in principle, strives to Managing Board, which were adopted by the Supervisory Board, adopt resolutions unanimously. However, the Rules of Procedure the Managing Board must obtain prior approval from the Super­ for the Managing Board, adopted by the Supervisory Board (availvisory Board for certain decisions. Such decisions include approval able on our website at www.IR.SMA.de) stipulate that individual of the annual budget, comprising the investment plan, incorpora­ members of the Managing Board are in charge of specific areas tion, acquisition or sale of companies and acquisition or sale of responsibility. The Managing Board, with the consent of the of real estate, whenever stipulated threshold values are exceeded. Supervisory Board, lays out how responsibilities are assigned. The The Supervisory Board must also consent to the allocations of members of the Managing Board notify each other on an ongoing responsibility on the Managing Board. basis about all material events in their area of responsibility and about any matters covering multiple areas of responsibility. Under legal provisions or the Rules of Procedure, in certain transactions, a unanimous resolution of the Managing Board is mandatory. For a predetermined number of transactions, the Supervisory Board has a reservation of consent. The Managing Board has not instituted any committees. SMA Solar Technology AG // Annual Report 2018 Corporate Governance 17 The Supervisory Board is currently made up of 12 members and In the past, the Supervisory Board has regularly considered the its composition complies with the provisions of the German Stock personal and professional requirements of its members and, with ­Corporation Act and the Codetermination Act. Under these proviregard to the provisions of clause 5.4.1 of the German Corporate sions, the employees of German Group companies and their shareGovernance Code, has decided on appropriate objectives for its holders (Annual General Meeting) each elect six representatives composition and established a competence profile. The competo the Supervisory Board. The current members of the Supervisory tence profile addresses the requirements for members of the SuperBoard are: Oliver Dietzel, Johannes Häde, Heike Haigis, Yvonne visory Board, which are provided in particular by law, the German Siebert, Dr. Matthias Victor and Hans-Dieter Werner as employee Corporate Governance Code and the objectives of the Supervisory representatives, and Roland Bent, Peter Drews, Dr. Erik Ehrentraut Board for its composition. (Chairman), Kim Fausing (Deputy Chairman), Alexa Hergenröther and Reiner Wettlaufer as shareholder representatives. The requirements and the competence profile continue to form the diversity concept of the Supervisory Board within the meaning Dr. Erik Ehrentraut and Alexa Hergenröther, as independent ­members of Section 289f (6) of the HGB, the objective of which is to ensure of the Supervisory Board, possess the necessary expertise in the that the Supervisory Board has the broadest possible range and fields of accounting or auditing as stipulated under Section 100 (5) variation of knowledge and experience. The Supervisory Board of the AktG. considers that increasing the diversity of the Supervisory Board is already an objective of various provisions of the law and of the German Corporate Governance Code. It incorporated this objecThe Committees of the Supervisory Board are made up as follows: tive when selecting new members and took it into consideration when creating its competence profile and the objectives for its composition, and will continue to do so in the future when implementing Presidial Committee Dr. Erik Ehrentraut (chairman), Yvonne Siebert a diversity concept. (Deputy Chairwoman), Kim Fausing, Dr. Matthias Victor Audit Committee Alexa Hergenröther (Chairwoman), Dr. Erik Ehrentraut The objectives of the Supervisory Board for its composition are as (Deputy Chairman), Oliver Dietzel, Johannes Häde follows: Nomination Committee Peter Drews (Chairman), Reiner Wettlaufer (Deputy Chairman), Dr. Erik Ehrentraut, Kim Fausing 1. The minimum proportion of women on the Supervisory Board is Mediation Committee Heike Haigis (Chairwoman), Kim Fausing (Deputy Chairman), determined by legal provisions. Dr. Erik Ehrentraut, Hans-Dieter Werner 2. Maintain the composition of the Supervisory Board members with a background of international experience at least in the The committees prepare topics and resolutions for review by the ­previous scope Supervisory Board at its plenary session. They regularly meet with stakeholders such as the Managing Board, the auditor or the heads 3. Special consideration given to candidates with knowledge and of Internal Audit or Compliance for this purpose. The content of the experience in the application of financial reporting standards committee meetings is reported on by the committee chairperson at and internal control processes as well as in the field of auditing the next plenary session of the Supervisory Board. Any member of the Supervisory Board may attend committee meetings, provided 4. Special consideration given to candidates with technical experthe relevant committee chairperson does not decide otherwise. The tise, particularly in the field of renewable energies, preferably meeting minutes and resolutions adopted by committees are made in the field of photovoltaics available to all the members of the Supervisory Board. 5. Special consideration given to candidates with knowledge in The Supervisory Board reports annually on the focus of its ­activities the field of digitalization and about the internal structures and and deliberations in the Supervisory Board Report. You may refer functions of the company to the Supervisory Board Rules of Procedure on our website at www.IR.SMA.de. The Supervisory Board members take general 6. At least half of the shareholder representatives are to be indeand specialized training necessary for their tasks of their own pendent. At the same time, at least one member is to possess accord, and in doing so, they receive appropriate support from expertise in the field of accounting or auditing. the Company. 7. Consideration of the age limit of 75 years at the end of the term of office when selecting new members Annual Report 2018 // SMA Solar Technology AG 18 Corporate Governance These objectives have been implemented as follows: Shareholders and Annual General Meeting As regards 1: The Supervisory Board now has three female SMA Solar Technology AG shareholders discuss their co-­ ­members, Heike Haigis, Alexa Hergenröther and Yvonne Siebert. determination and control rights at the Annual General Meeting, which takes place at least once a year. The Annual ­General As regards 2 to 5: In the opinion of the Supervisory Board, these Meeting adopts resolutions with binding effect and each share objectives have been achieved. grants one vote. Every shareholder who registers on time is ­entitled to participate in the Annual General Meeting. In addition, As regards 6: The Company currently considers at least three shareholders may have their voting rights exercised by a credit shareholder representatives independent: Roland Bent, Dr. Erik institution, a shareholder association, the proxies deployed by Ehrentraut and Alexa Hergenröther. Two of these independent SMA Solar Technology AG and bound by the shareholder’s instrucmembers have expertise in the fields of accounting and financial tions or by another authorized representative. The invitation to the audits: Dr. Erik Ehrentraut and Alexa Hergenröther. Annual General Meeting and all reports and information necessary for adopting resolutions, including the Annual Report, are pubAs regards 7: To date, one member of the Supervisory Board will lished in accordance with the provisions of the Stock Corporation exceed the age limit of 75 years at the end of his term of office. Act and are available in the run-up to the Annual General Meeting on our website at www.IR.SMA.de. From the perspective of the Supervisory Board, the requirements arising from the competence profile and the diversity concept have been fulfilled, with the exception of the proportion of women and INFORMATION CONCERNING TAKEthe age limit. OVERS REQUIRED BY HGB SECTIONS 289A AND 315A Cooperation Between the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board Number 1: The share capital of SMA Solar Technology AG amounts to €34.7 million. The capital is divided up into The Managing Board and the Supervisory Board work closely 34,700,000 no-par value bearer shares. The rights and obligations with one another in an atmosphere of trust for the good of the associated with the shareholdings fall under the regulations in the ­Company, thus meeting both the requirements of effective enterGerman Stock Corporation Act. prise control and the need to be able to make decisions quickly. Their common goal is to secure the continued existence of the ComNumber 2: Each share has the right to one vote. On Octopany and steadily increase its value. To this end, the Managing ber 1, 2010, the four founders and main shareholders of SMA Board keeps the Supervisory Board promptly and comprehensively Solar Technology AG, Dr.-Ing. h. c. Günther Cramer, Peter Drews, informed, both in writing and verbally, and during regular meetings Prof. (em.) Dr.-Ing. Werner Kleinkauf and Reiner Wettlaufer, transabout the Company’s position, current business developments and ferred equity stakes to the next generation within their families by all relevant questions pertaining to strategic planning, risk manageway of a gift. The acquiring shareholders concluded a pooling ment and important compliance matters. The Quarterly Financial agreement for a period of seven years, which would have been Statements and the Half-Yearly Financial Report are discussed with terminable for the first time in 2017. During the term of this agreethe Managing Board on a regular basis during Audit Committee ment, the voting rights emanating from the shares transferred may meetings prior to their publication. only be exercised as a block vote. In addition, the shares may only be sold to third parties with the consent of the other members of the Outside meetings, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board and his pool or if narrowly defined prerequisites are satisfied. As far as the deputy are also in contact with the Managing Board to discuss Company is aware, the agreement has not been terminated up to significant business transactions and upcoming decisions and are now. At the end of the fiscal year, the shareholders who coordiimmediately informed about key developments. nate their voting rights in “Poolvertrag SMA Solar Technology AG” (pooling agreement) hold a total of 8,744,470 shares or 25.20% of the Company’s voting rights. Beyond this, the Managing Board is not aware of any restrictions affecting voting rights or the transferability of shares. SMA Solar Technology AG // Annual Report 2018 Corporate Governance 19 Number 3: Danfoss A/S, Denmark, holds 20.00% of the ­Company’s Furthermore, following a resolution adopted by the Annual General share capital. Meeting on May 31, 2016, the Managing Board, in the period ending May 30, 2021, is entitled, on behalf of the Company, Shareholders who coordinate their voting rights in “Poolvertrag to acquire its own shares up to a value of 10% of the existing SMA Solar Technology AG” (see Number 2) hold 25.20% of the ­capital stock at the time the resolution was adopted by the Annual Company’s share capital. Lars Cramer as individual shareholder ­General Meeting and to dispose of shares acquired in this way of the “Poolvertrag SMA Solar Technology AG” holds 11.05% of with the consent of the Supervisory Board by means other than the Company’s share capital. through the stock exchange; or an offer made to all the shareholders, provided the shares are sold in return for cash at a price that does Numbers 4 and 5: The shareholders do not have any special not fall significantly below the stock exchange price of shares in rights conferring them any particular powers of control. the Company issued under the same terms or the shares are sold in return for in-kind contributions; or they are offered in return for Number 6: Appointment and dismissal of the Managing Board shares held by persons that either had or have an employment relatakes place pursuant to Sections 84 and 85 of the German Stock tionship with the Company, or with one of its affiliated companies, Corporation Act (AktG) together with Section 31 of the Codetermior members of bodies in companies that depend on the Company. nation Act (MitBestG). Under Article 5 of the Articles of IncorpoAdditionally, if the Managing Board sells the Company’s own ration, the Managing Board consists of at least two members and shares by offering them to all the shareholders with the consent of the exact number is laid down by the Supervisory Board. Under the Supervisory Board, the Managing Board is entitled to exclude Section 179 of the AktG, the Articles of Incorporation may be the shareholders’ right of subscription for fractions. In addition, the amended by a resolution adopted by the Annual General Meeting Managing Board is entitled to cancel any own shares acquired with a majority of three-quarters of the share capital represented after obtaining the consent of the Supervisory Board. at the vote. Number 8: Credit lines agreed with banks with a volume of Number 7: The Articles of Incorporation include the provisions on €100 million contain a change of control clause that includes the the powers of the Managing Board regarding Authorized Capspecial termination right of the relevant bank. ital II. The Managing Board, after obtaining the consent of the Supervisory Board, is entitled to increase the share capital on one Number 9: If the employment contract with a member of the Manor several occasions by up to a total of €3.4 million by issuing aging Board ends after being terminated by the member of the new bearer shares in return for cash contributions and/or contriManaging Board within a period of six months after a change of butions in kind in the period ending May 23, 2023. The Managcontrol, this member is entitled to severance pay amounting to his/ ing Board, with the consent of the Supervisory Board, is entitled her remuneration rights for the remaining term of the employment to cancel the statutory subscription rights of shareholders: (a) in contract, however, no longer than a period of two years. the case of capital increases in return for contributions in kind for the acquisition of or investment in companies, parts of companies or investments in companies, (b) for the purpose of issuing shares to employees of the Company and companies affiliated with the Company, (c) to exclude fractions and (d) in the case of capital increases in return for cash contributions if the issue amount of the new shares does not fall significantly below the stock exchange price of shares of the same class and terms that are already listed at the time the Managing Board sets the final issue amount, and the total pro rata amount of the issued capital attributable to the new shares in respect of which the subscription right is excluded may not exceed 10% of the issued capital available at the time the new shares are issued. Annual Report 2018 // SMA Solar Technology AG 20 Corporate Governance REMUNERATION REPORT PERFORMANCE-BASED VARIABLE REMUNERATION The Remuneration Report summarizes the principles that are deciManaging Board members also receive a performance-based varisive when it comes to determining remuneration for the Supervisory able salary, which depends on sales and earnings before income Board and Managing Board and also explains the remuneration tax (EBT) as recorded in the Consolidated Financial Statement for a structure and the emoluments payable. fiscal year audited by the financial auditor as well as on achieving personal goals. The performance-based variable salary consists of three components: “profit,” “sales” and “personal performance.” Managing Board Remuneration “Profit” counts for 40% and “sales” and “personal performance” and Emoluments count for 30% each of the performance-based variable salary. The “profit” and “sales” components can also be fulfilled up to 150%. The remuneration system for the Managing Board (including the If the defined lower limits of the respective components are not met, most important contractual elements) is decided at a Supervisory they are graded with a “0.” Values in-between are determined on Board plenary session. The Supervisory Board regularly ­examines a linear basis. If the sum of the percentages of the components the remuneration system for the Managing Board and defines reaches 100% or more, this entitles payment of the full agreed ­targets for the variable components of the emoluments. The criteria remuneration. If the agreed targets are exceeded, this does not for determining remuneration include evaluating the tasks of the entitle payment of an overall higher variable remuneration (cap). individual Managing Board members, their personal performance, the overall financial situation and Company success, using compenThe target values (EBT, sales) and personal objectives are redesation peer benchmarking and the Company’s usual remuneration fined by the Supervisory Board every year and the corresponding structure. In its assessment, the Supervisory Board also included remuneration based on the objectives achieved after the ConsolManaging Board remuneration in relation to remuneration of the idated Financial Statement has been approved is generally paid top-level executives and the workforce as a whole, taking into in March of the following year. If the Managing Board members’ account changes over time, and thus, laid out comparable peer duties do not extend beyond one full fiscal year, then they receive groups from top-level executives and the workforce. The remuneraone-twelfth of the performance-based variable remuneration tion is assessed in a way that ensures it is competitive with the mar­determined for the entire fiscal year for each month of the fiscal ket for highly qualified managerial staff. The remuneration system year in which they carry out their duties. complies with statutory requirements, with the ­stipulations of the German Corporate Governance Code and with case law and was approved by the Annual General Meeting on May 23, 2017. The LONG-TERM BONUS remuneration of the Managing Board consists of the components described below in which the fixed component of the emoluments Managing Board members also receive a long-term bonus, which amounts to 60% and the variable component and long-term bonus depends on the mean EBT margin as recorded in the Consolidated in the case of good business performance to 40% of the total remuFinancial Statements audited by the auditors over a period of three neration before additional benefits. 60% of the variable component fiscal years. The upper and lower limits of the target value (EBT of the emoluments must correspond to the long-term bonus. The margin) are determined annually by the Supervisory Board for the percentages provided are approximate ­values. A deviation of up to following three fiscal years. If the upper limit of the target value is five percentage points is permitted. achieved, then the full agreed long-term bonus may be claimed, whereas if the lower limit of the target value is not met, no bonus is payable. Values in-between are determined on a linear basis. If the NON-PERFORMANCE-BASED FIXED REMUNERATION target value is exceeded, this does not entitle payment of a higher long-term bonus (cap). The bonus is payable, at the very earliest, The annual fixed emoluments are divided into 12 monthly salaries. upon expiration of the three-year period. Payment takes place after the third Consolidated Financial Statements have been approved, usually at the end of March, even if the employment contract ends before the end of the performance period. If the employment ­contract still has a term of at least two years to run when payment becomes due, then the Managing Board members are expected to invest the net amount payable, in part, in shares in SMA Solar Technology AG and to hold these shares until their Managing Board duties with the Company have ended. SMA Solar Technology AG // Annual Report 2018 Corporate Governance 21 ADDITIONAL BENEFITS All members of the Managing Board are subject to a post-termination non-compete clause valid for a period of two years, which All Managing Board members are entitled to: provides an appropriate compensation payment amounting to 50% of the services contractually agreed by the Managing Board. The → A company car Managing Board member must set off any remuneration earned → Reimbursement of travel costs and any expenses incurred on while he/she is otherwise employed during the non-compete company business period, insofar as the remuneration exceeds the amount of the last → Continued payment of remuneration for up to nine months in contractually agreed services performed when the other earnings the event of temporary sick leave are added. → Employer’s contribution up to the contribution assessment ­ceiling of statutory social insurance (pension, health, longThe maximum cash value of the compensation sums payable in term care), even in the case of voluntary insurance and witha non-compete clause after conclusion of Managing Board duties out ­furnishing any proof as well as appropriate directors and amounts to €0.616 million for Ulrich Hadding (2017: €0.750 mil­officers liability insurance. lion) and €0.829 million (2017: €1.242 million) for Dr. Jürgen Reinert. Any taxes due must be borne by the Managing Board member. In the 2018 fiscal year, the total emoluments payable to all members of the Managing Board in office in the fiscal year amounted OTHER CONTRACTUAL BENEFITS to €2.837 million (2017: €3.945 million). This included ­variable emoluments of €0.155 million paid to the Managing Board in In the event of death or long-term sick leave, remuneration will 2018 (2017: €1.265 million). The Managing Board ­members ­continue to be paid for six months. receive no separate remuneration for carrying out tasks at subsidiaries. In the event of early termination of Managing Board duties without good cause, the compensation payable is limited to the total The table below provides information on the remuneration of the ­remuneration for the remaining term of the contract and up to a Managing Board in accordance with the rules of the German maximum of two years’ emoluments (severance pay cap). If an ­Corporate Governance Code dated February 2017. The values in employment contract with a member of the Managing Board the “Inflow” table relate to the emoluments of individual Managing ends after being terminated by the member 1 within a period of six Board members for the 2018 fiscal year. The “Grants” table also months from a change of control, this member is entitled to severshows the minimum and maximum remuneration achievable with ance pay amounting to his/her remuneration rights for the remainregard to the variable remuneration components for the fiscal year. ing term of the employment contract, however, no longer than a period of two years. No credits were granted nor were any advances paid to Managing Board members during the fiscal year. There are no pension commitments. 1 Contrary to the provision introduced in the 2017 Annual General Meeting Annual Report 2018 // SMA Solar Technology AG 22 Corporate Governance Inflow Dr.-Ing. Jürgen Reinert Chief Executive Officer, Board Pierre-Pascal Urbon Ulrich Hadding Member for Strategy, Chief Executive Officer, Board Member for Finance, Sales and Service, Board Member for Strategy, HR and Legal Operations and Technology Sales and Service Joined 2017/01/01 Joined 2014/04/01 Left 2018/31/12 1 in €’000 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 Fixed remuneration 600 600 800 800 1,200 1,200 Additional benefits/Others 26 28 23 23 31 31 Total 626 628 823 823 1,231 1,231 One-year variable remuneration 160 22 220 36 320 97 Multi-year variable remuneration Long-term variable remuneration 2015 – 2017 0 240 325 Long-term variable remuneration 2016 – 2018 0 0 0 Total 160 22 460 36 645 97 Pension contribution 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total 786 650 1,283 859 1,876 1,328 1 Pierre-Pascal Urbon left the Managing Board as of December 31, 2018. In connection with his stepping down from the Managing Board, Mr. Urbon received a single payment of €2.0 million to settle the existing non-compete clause. Grants Ulrich Hadding Board Member for Finance, HR and Legal Joined 2017/01/01 2018 2018 in €’000 2017 2018 (Min.) (Max.) Fixed remuneration 600 600 600 600 Additional benefits/Others 26 28 28 28 Total 626 628 628 628 One-year variable remuneration 160 160 0 160 Long-term variable remuneration 2017 – 2019 240 Long-term variable remuneration 2018 – 2020 240 0 240 Total 400 400 0 400 Pension contribution 0 0 0 0 Total 1,026 1,028 628 1,028 SMA Solar Technology AG // Annual Report 2018 Corporate Governance 23 Grants Dr.-Ing. Jürgen Reinert Pierre-Pascal Urbon Chief Executive Officer, Board Member for Strategy, Chief Executive Officer, Sales and Service, Operations and Technology Board Member for Strategy, Sales and Service Joined 2014/04/01 Left 2018/31/12 1 2018 2018 2018 2018 in €’000 2017 2018 (Min.) (Max.) 2017 2018 (Min.) (Max.) Fixed remuneration 800 800 800 800 1,200 1,200 1,200 1,200 Additional benefits/Others 23 23 23 23 29 31 31 31 Total 823 823 823 823 1,229 1,231 1,231 1,231 One-year variable remuneration 220 220 0 220 320 320 96 320 Long-term variable remuneration 2017 – 2019 330 480 Long-term variable remuneration 2018 – 2020 330 0 330 480 0 480 Total 550 550 0 550 800 800 96 800 Pension contribution 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total 1,373 1,373 823 1,373 2,029 2,031 1,327 2,031 1 Pierre-Pascal Urbon left the Managing Board as of December 31, 2018. Supervisory Board Remuneration No other remuneration or benefits for personally rendered services, in particular consulting and mediation services, were granted to and Emoluments Supervisory Board members. Similarly, in the year under review, In accordance with the regulations on Supervisory Board remuthe Supervisory Board members were granted no credits or neration in effect since the 2013 fiscal year, Supervisory Board advances. members receive fixed remuneration of €25,000 a year. The remuneration payable to the Chairman amounts to twice the amount As of December 31, 2018, six of the members of the Supervisory mentioned above and the remuneration payable to the ­Chairman’s Board held SMA shares. deputy amounts to one and a half times the aforementioned amount. The emoluments payable to the members of the Supervisory Board amounted to a total of €0.445 million in the reporting year (previMembers of the Supervisory Board Audit Committee receive an ous year: €0.441 million). annual remuneration of an additional €7,500. For members of the Supervisory Board Presidial Committee, the total annual remuneraBeyond the remuneration of the Supervisory Board, the employee tion is an additional €5,000. The chairpersons of these committees representatives that are employees of the Company receive fee receive twice the aforementioned amounts. Members of other compayments unrelated to their Supervisory Board duties. mittees do not receive any special remuneration for their committee duties. Other Supervisory Board members receive an additional €750 per meeting day for their meeting participation. If they take part in several The Company has taken out professional indemnity insurance meetings in one day, they receive a maximum payment of twice the (D&O insurance) for the members of the corporate bodies of all aforementioned amount. The remuneration is payable at the end SMA Group companies. It is effected or extended every year. The of the fiscal year. Supervisory Board members who have only sat insurance covers the personal liability risk of the members resulton the Supervisory Board or a committee for part of the fiscal year ing from a breach of duty when exercising their duties in the event receive remuneration pro rata temporis. that any claims for economic losses are asserted against them. The deductible in the policy for the 2018 fiscal year was 10% of the damage, however, no higher than one and a half times the fixed annual emoluments of the member of the corporate body. Annual Report 2018 // SMA Solar Technology AG 24 Corporate Governance Remuneration of the Supervisory Board Remuneration for Remuneration for supervisory duties committee duties Total in €’000 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 Roland Bent 28.8 29.5 0.0 0.0 28.8 29.5 Oliver Dietzel 2 30.3 31.0 12.0 12.0 42.3 43.0 Peter Drews 30.3 30.3 0.0 0.0 30.3 30.3 Dr. Erik Ehrentraut (Chairman) 56.0 55.3 24.3 24.3 80.3 79.6 Kim Fausing 1 (Deputy Chairman) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Johannes Häde 31.0 31.0 12.8 12.8 43.8 43.8 Heike Haigis 2 29.5 31.0 0.0 0.0 29.5 31.0 Alexa Hergenröther 29.5 31.0 20.3 20.3 49.8 51.3 Yvonne Siebert 30.3 30.3 6.5 6.5 36.8 36.8 Dr. Matthias Victor 31.0 31.0 6.5 7.3 37.5 38.3 Hans-Dieter Werner 31.0 31.0 0.0 0.0 31.0 31.0 Reiner Wettlaufer 31.0 30.3 0.0 0.0 31.0 30.3 Total 358.7 361.7 82.4 83.2 441.1 444.9 1 Kim Fausing waived his entitlements from the Company. 2 The union members on the Supervisory Board pay their remuneration to the union. SMA Solar Technology AG // Annual Report 2018 COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT 1 26 BASIC INFORMATION ABOUT THE GROUP 26 Business Activity and Organization 27 Products and Services 28 Important Sales Markets and ­Competitive Situation 28 Vision and Mission 29 Corporate Goals 29 Enterprise Management 31 Research and Development 34 Non-Financial Statement 45 FISCAL YEAR 2018 45 General Economic Conditions and Economic Conditions in the Sector 46 Results of Operations 52 Financial Position 53 Net Assets 54 SMA Solar Technology AG (Notes Based on the German Commercial Code HGB) 56 Managing Board Statement on the Business Trends in 2018 58 RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES REPORT 58 Principles of the Risk and Opportunity Management System 58 Risk Management 59 Opportunity Management 59 Key Features of the Internal Control and Risk Management System in Relation to the (Group) Accounting Process 61 Description of Significant Risks 67 Description of Significant Opportunities 67 Overall Statement on the Group’s Risk Situation 68 FORECAST REPORT 68 Preamble 68 The General Economic Situation 68 Future General Economic Conditions in the Photovoltaics Sector 70 Overall Statement from the Managing Board on Expected Development of the SMA Group 73 OTHER ELEMENTS OF THE COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT 1 The present combined Management Report has been drawn up for both the SMA Group and SMA AG. It was prepared in accordance with Sections 289, 289a, 315 and 315a of the German Commercial Code (HGB) and German Accounting Standards (GAS) numbers 17 and 20. The combined Management Report also includes the Remuneration Report and the Corporate Governance Statement. 26 Combined Management Report – Basic Information About the Group BASIC INFORMATION ABOUT THE GROUP BUSINESS ACTIVITY AND ORGANIZATION REPORTING STRUCTURE SMA Solar Technology AG (SMA) and its subsidiaries (SMA SMA Group Group) develop, produce and distribute PV inverters, transformers, choke coils and monitoring systems for PV systems. Furthermore, the company offers intelligent energy management solutions and Residential Commercial Utility Storage Digital Energy operation and maintenance services for photovoltaic power plants Segment Segment ­Segment Segment Segment (O&M business), in addition to other services. Another area of ­business is digital services for future energy supplies. ADJUSTED ORGANIZATIONAL AND REPORTING Organizational Structure STRUCTURE AS OF 2019 LEGAL STRUCTURE OF THE GROUP SMA regularly reviews whether its organizational structure is efficient and in line with market requirements. To allow for even As the parent company of the SMA Group, SMA, headquartered greater focus on customers and to structurally represent SMA’s in Niestetal near Kassel, Germany, provides all of the functions ­orientation as a provider of systems and solutions in an optimal required for its operative business. The parent company holds, manner, the SMA Managing Board made organizational changes either directly or indirectly, 100% of the shares of all the operatas of January 1, 2019. The Off-Grid & Storage business unit, ing companies that belong to the SMA Group. The Annual Report SMA Sunbelt Energy, coneva and emerce were integrated into includes information regarding the parent company and all 34 Home & Business Solutions (formerly the Residential & ­Commercial Group companies (2017: 33), including eight domestic companies business unit) and Large Scale & Project Solutions (formerly the and 26 companies based abroad. In addition, SMA Solar Tech­Utility business unit), resulting in there no longer being any sepnology AG holds 28.27% interest in Tigo Energy, Inc. Tigo Energy, arate reporting for the Storage and Digital Energy segments Inc. is recognized as an associate in the Consolidated Financial from 2019 onward. Starting 2019, the reporting structure will Statements according to the equity method. thus comprise the Home Solutions, Business Solutions and Large Scale & Project Solutions segments. ORGANIZATIONAL AND REPORTING STRUCTURE MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL The SMA Group operates under a functional organization. In this organization, the Residential & Commercial and Utility business In accordance with the German Stock Corporation Act (Aktien­gesetz), units take on overall responsibility and manage development, operthe executive bodies consist of the Annual General Meeting, the ational service and sales, as well as production and procurement/ Managing Board and the Supervisory Board. The Managing Board logistics. The Residential and Commercial segments are presented manages the company; the Supervisory Board appoints, supervises separately in the reporting structure. The Service business unit was and advises the Managing Board. The Annual General Meeting elects integrated into the Residential & Commercial business unit and the shareholder representatives to the Supervisory Board and grants or Utility business unit, subsequently there is no longer any separate refuses discharge to the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board. reporting for the Service segment from 2018 onward. SMA Sunbelt Energy GmbH and the Off-Grid & Storage business unit have been combined in the Storage segment. The Digital Energy reporting segment, arising from the new business area of the same name that was established in January 2018, is reported for the first time in fiscal year 2018. SMA Solar Technology AG // Annual Report 2018 Basic Information About the Group – Combined Management Report 27 CHANGES TO THE MANAGING BOARD services, energy management solutions, storage systems, communication products and accessories. SMA also offers services, such as By October 15, 2018, the Managing Board of SMA Solar Techextended warranties, spare parts and modernization of PV systems nology AG had comprised the following members: Pierre-­Pascal (Repowering) to enhance performance. With this portfolio of prodUrbon (Chief Executive Officer, Board Member for Strategy, Sales ucts and services, SMA provides solutions for private PV systems in and Service), Dr.-Ing. Jürgen Reinert (Deputy Chief Executive all major photovoltaic markets worldwide. ­Officer, Board Member for Operations and Technology) and Ulrich Hadding (Board Member for Finance, Human Resources and Legal). In the Commercial segment, the focus is on global markets for medium-sized PV systems with and without an energy managePierre-Pascal Urbon left the company on December 31, 2018, at ment solution. Here SMA offers solutions based on the three-phase his own request, after having resigned from the Managing Board Sunny Tripower inverters with outputs of more than 12 kW as well in agreement with the Supervisory Board on October 15, 2018. as on inverters from the Sunny Highpower and Solid-Q product On the same date, Dr.-Ing. Jürgen Reinert was appointed Chief families. The Sunny Tripower inverters are compatible with the Executive Officer of SMA Solar Technology AG and is responsible smart module technology from Tigo Energy, Inc. Holistic energy for Strategy, Sales and Service in addition to Operations and Techmanagement solutions for medium-sized PV systems based on the nology. Ulrich Hadding continues to be responsible for Finance, ennexOS platform, medium-voltage technology and other accessoHuman Resources and Legal Affairs and has also assumed responries as well as services up to and including system modernization sibility for Investor Relations and Internal Audit. and operational management of commercial PV systems (O&M business) round off SMA’s offering. COMPOSITION OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD The Utility segment focuses on international PV power plant markets with its powerful string inverters in the Sunny Highpower The SMA Supervisory Board, which represents shareholders and product family and the central inverters in the Sunny Central prodemployees in equal measure, consists of Roland Bent, Peter Drews, uct family. The outputs of the inverters in this segment range from Dr. Erik Ehrentraut (chairman), Kim Fausing (deputy chairman), 150 kW to the megawatts. In addition, the SMA portfolio in the Alexa Hergenröther and Reiner Wettlaufer as shareholder repUtility segment covers complete solutions comprising central invertresentatives. The employees are represented on the Supervisory ers with their grid service and monitoring functions as well as all Board by Oliver Dietzel, Johannes Häde, Heike Haigis, Yvonne mediumand high-voltage technology and accessories. The portSiebert, Dr. Matthias Victor and Hans-Dieter Werner. folio is supplemented by services, such as for the modernization and functional enhancement of PV power plants (Repowering), and operation and maintenance services (O&M business). PRODUCTS AND SERVICES The Storage segment is comprised of SMA’s system technology for integrating battery-storage systems of all system sizes. In addiAs a specialist in system technology, SMA develops and markets tion to increasing PV self-consumption to reduce electricity costs PV inverters, hardware and software as well as services that allow in private households and companies, the main priorities here are energy to be managed intelligently and used efficiently. SMA’s supplying electricity to remote areas reliably and cost-­effectively portfolio contains a wide range of efficient PV inverters, holistic sysas well as implementing PV diesel hybrid projects in sunbelt tem solutions for PV systems of all power classes, intelligent energy areas around the world and large-scale storage projects in select management systems and battery-­storage solutions, and complete ­markets. SMA collaborates on storage integration with all leading solutions for PV diesel hybrid applications. Extensive services up to battery manufacturers and with companies from the automotive and including operation and maintenance services for photovoltaic industry. power plants (O&M business) complement the offering. The Digital Energy segment comprises the subsidiaries coneva In the Residential segment, SMA caters to global markets for and emerce. coneva develops digital energy services for private small PV systems with and without connection to a smart home soluand business customers. emerce focuses on online sales channels tion. The portfolio, which includes the SMA and Zeversolar brands, for select markets. comprises smart module technology, singleand three-phase string inverters in the lower output range up to 12 kW, integrated Annual Report 2018 // SMA Solar Technology AG 28 Combined Management Report – Basic Information About the Group IMPORTANT SALES MARKETS AND FOCUS ON COST REDUCTION AND MAJOR FUTURE FIELDS ­COMPETITIVE SITUATION In the reporting year, SMA countered the increased price ­pressure in all segments and regions – due in particular to the huge SMA estimates that 102 GW of new PV power was installed world­reduction in PV expansion targets in China – with additional wide in 2018. This is only slightly below last year’s level (2017: measures to reduce costs. These include improved processes and 103 GW; figures exclude inverter retrofitting and battery inverter the introduction of product innovations with a lower cost of sales technology). The global market, not including China, posted that lead to considerable savings in the total costs of PV systems. growth of 16%, whereas, with new installations totaling 44 GW, In addition, the SMA Managing Board has resolved extensive the Chinese market declined by arround 17% year on year (2017: restructuring measures to quickly return the company to profitability 53 GW). SMA estimates that global PV inverter technology sales, in the environment described above. The main measures that are including inverter retrofitting and battery inverter technology, fell by implemented since January 2019 include giving up the locations in around 8% to €4.9 billion in the reporting period (2017: €5.3 bilChina and selling the Chinese companies to the local management. lion). This includes around €600 million in the battery inverter The restructuring is aimed at reducing SMA’s fixed costs and makgrowth segment (2017: approx. €500 million). The disproportioning optimal use of our capacity at the headquarters by focusing on ately high sales decline in comparison to the market development our core competencies, outsourcing and automating activities, and in GW is attributable to increased price pressure. reorganizing structures. The share of the photovoltaic markets in Europe, the Middle East In addition, SMA further advanced its strategic positioning in major and Africa (EMEA) in global sales slightly increased to approxifuture fields and consequently its continued development into a mately 26% in 2018 (2017: 24%). American photovoltaic ­markets ­provider of systems and solutions in the reporting year. In the Digiremained on a par with the previous year and once again repretal Energy segment, for example, the ­subsidiary coneva has started sented 19% of global sales (2017: 19%). Due to low prices and to open up the business field of digital energy solutions. In the Storstrong decline in gigawatts, the Chinese market accounted for age segment the strategic partnership with the leading battery manonly around 25% of global sales in 2018 (2017: 28%). The Asia-­ ufacturer BYD was expanded to additional growth ­markets and in Pacific photovoltaic markets (excluding China) accounted for 30% the repowering business SMA devised offers for the modernization of sales (2017: 29%). and functional enhancement of PV ­systems in all power classes. SMA IS WELL POSITIONED INTERNATIONALLY AND HAS VISION AND MISSION 1 A COMPLETE RANGE OF PRODUCTS With its companies and experienced photovoltaics specialists in 18 Energy supply structures are undergoing fundamental change all countries, the SMA Group is in a good position to benefit from the over the world. After the pioneering phase of renewable energy growth of global photovoltaic markets. sources comes the digitalization of the energy industry. In the foreseeable future, the energy supply will be decentralized, highly The SMA production sites in Niestetal and Kassel (Germany) renewable, fully digital and interconnected. Photovoltaics will and Yangzhong (China) have an overall annual capacity of over play an essential part as the most cost-effective and decentralized 20 GW. The competence center for coils (electro­magnetic composource of energy. With a complete portfolio of products and solunents) is based in Zabierzów, near ­Krakow (Poland). With its intertions, extensive PV system expertise and a global presence, SMA national positioning and product and service portfolio for all types is in an excellent position to utilize the opportunities offered. The of applications and ­different regional requirements, SMA can react SMA Strategy 2020 will provide the strategic framework for this. quickly to shifts in demand at any time. It comprises a forward-looking vision and mission as well as clear strategic targets for the years to come. In 2018, SMA sold inverters with an accumulated output of 8,449 MW (2017: 8,538 MW) and generated €760.9 million in sales (2017: €891.0 million). 1 T his section is not a mandatory component of the management report as defined in Section 315 HGB in conjunction with GAS 20, and therefore not a subject of the financial audit. SMA Solar Technology AG // Annual Report 2018 Basic Information About the Group – Combined Management Report 29 Our vision is to make people completely independent in their SMA IS AN ATTRACTIVE COMPANY 1 energy supply using decentralized renewable energy in a connected world. SMA will make a substantial contribution to the fast Motivated employees with an international, entrepreneurial mindand full implementation of this vision. Our mission is to integrate set and approach, sustainability across the entire value chain and and network photovoltaics, storage systems and mobility with intelhigh credibility among all stakeholders are important factors for ligent energy management. With our superior solutions, we will SMA’s success in a dynamic market environment. We therefore shape the energy supply of the future. practice our values and allow SMA employees the freedom for responsible, entrepreneurial action. We stand out, both internally and ­externally, due to fairness, internationality and sustainability. CORPORATE GOALS Additional information is available in the chapter “Non-Financial Statement” starting page 34. SMA’s corporate goals are enshrined in the Strategy 2020. They were presented to all SMA employees around the world and ADDITIONAL MEASURES IMPLEMENTED should form the basis for the Company’s sustainable success. In the reporting year, SMA implemented additional key measures to achieve the objectives of Strategy 2020. For example, the first GLOBAL MARKET LEADER IN ALL SEGMENTS system packages with hardware, software and service components were developed for the Residential and Commercial segments and SMA’s goal is to make consistent use of growth opportunities in all are gradually introduced to markets starting the first quarter of market sectors and regions and to be the global market leader in 2019. In the Digital Energy segment, the subsidiaries coneva and sales in every one of our market segments – Residential, Commeremerce initiated pilot projects for the development of digital energy cial and Utility. services and online sales channels in select markets. In December 2018, the SMA Managing Board also presented PROVIDER OF SYSTEMS AND SOLUTIONS restructuring measures aimed at reducing fixed costs and quickly returning the company to profitability in an environment characThe ability to offer both individual components and entire systems terized by sharp price decreases, without negatively impacting and solutions, including innovative services, is becoming an import­investments in major future fields. ant distinguishing feature in the photovoltaics industry. SMA has therefore set itself the target of increasing the proportion of sales it generates outside inverters to over 40% by 2020. ENTERPRISE MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABLE PROFITABILITY AND LIMITED CAPITAL TIE-UP Leading Indicators To counter the high price pressure that is still expected, SMA To be able to react to market changes in a timely manner, it is is striving for continual process improvements and increases exceedingly important for SMA to recognize opportunities and in ­efficiency. If necessary, profitability will be ensured through risks early on. To achieve this, we will have ongoing discussions ­reductions in structural costs. about what are commonly referred to as operative leading indicators at both the Managing Board and business unit level with the business unit heads, vice presidents and the general managers of DEVELOPMENT OF SMA BY MEANS OF DISRUPTIVE SMA subsidiaries. Indicators relevant to SMA include changes in APPROACHES PV system incentive programs and their effect on regional market potential, growth and competitiveness of SMA in regional markets, The digitalization of the energy supply is giving rise to business customer acceptance of new products as well as market-related opportunities that demand novel approaches. In order to make use information stemming from discussions with customers, ­suppliers of the resulting opportunities, SMA focuses on disruptive technologand associations. The myriad of influencing factors and the comical approaches, data-based business models and end-to-end sales plex way they interact make it difficult to produce a detailed models in new, legally independent business units. ­forecast that holds up long term. 1 T his paragraph is not a mandatory component of the management report as defined in Section 315 HGB in conjunction with GAS 20, and therefore not a subject of the financial audit. Annual Report 2018 // SMA Solar Technology AG 30 Combined Management Report – Basic Information About the Group As part of annual and medium-term planning, the Managing EARNINGS BEFORE DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION Board specifically discusses opportunities and risks with regard to (EBITDA) ­markets and sales volumes with the sales and business unit heads and records the final assumptions for planning. In the reporting SMA calculates operating earnings before interest, taxes, depreciaperiod, the Managing Board and business unit management were tion and amortization (EBITDA) based on operating earnings (EBIT) informed on a monthly basis about the financial development of plus depreciation and amortization of fixed and intangible assets. the entire SMA Group and the individual business units. They were SMA uses this key figure to measure profitability at the Group continuously compared with planning assumptions. In the event of level, excluding imputed depreciation of investments made. deviations or unforeseen events, short-term countermeasures could therefore be taken on the basis of intra-year forecasts. NET WORKING CAPITAL/NET WORKING CAPITAL RATIO Financial Management Parameters In addition to inventories, net working capital comprises trade receivables, trade payables and prepayments made by customers. In 2018, SMA used the following key financial management We measure our customers’ and suppliers’ accounts receivables parameters for its operative business as explained below. The as well as product manufacturing inventories regularly in relation to calculation of net working capital was changed compared with sales over the last 12 months. We measure and manage net workthe previous year. Starting in the 2018 fiscal year, this ratio also ing capital at the corporate Group level. includes liabilities from advanced payments received for orders due to their operational nature. In addition, there were no changes in calculation of key figures or in the management system. CAPITAL EXPENDITURE Capital expenditure is another key driver of liquidity planning. To SALES manage capital expenditure, we formulate budgets as part of our annual planning, which the Managing Board approves over the Sales include all of the sales generated over the reporting period. course of the fiscal year. This applies particularly to large-scale Because the market for inverters was shaped partly by plummeting capital expenditure projects, which are additionally evaluated with prices, we also measure, in addition to sales, inverter output sold a profitability calculation. We manage capital expenditure at the and the average selling price per watt. We calculate sales at both corporate Group level. the Group and business unit level. NET CASH OPERATING PROFIT (EBIT)/OPERATIVE EARNINGS MARGIN With net cash, we review our own financing possibilities for the In addition to sales and the cost of sales, the operating profit ongoing business like net working capital and capital ­expenditure. also includes functional costs and other operating expenses and It includes liquid funds and securities contained within working income. SMA uses this key figure to measure the profitability of the ­capital and cash on hand pledged as collatoral less interest-­ individual business units and the Group. To determine the operative bearing financial liabilities. We manage net cash at the corporate earnings margin, we calculate operating profit in relation to total Group level. sales. We measure operating profit and the operative earnings margin at both the Group and business unit level. SMA Solar Technology AG // Annual Report 2018 Basic Information About the Group – Combined Management Report 31 Intragroup Reporting and Management Forward-Looking Development Approach INTRAGROUP REPORTING Thorough understanding of different market requirements and close proximity to our customers enable us to anticipate future system The monthly reporting includes, among other information, detailed technology demands. Customers used to be concerned primarily status reports on orders placed and order volumes, the amount with energy yield, service life and design flexibility. Now, ­however, of inverter output sold, sales figures, results of operation, cash flow consumer costs of PV electricity, system integration as well as statements, research and development activities, investments and connectivity are the key factors in making a purchasing decision. net working capital. The aim is to compare changes in decisive With the increasing integration of PV systems into comprehensive items on the income statement and balance sheet both with the systems, cyber security is also playing an ever more important role. budget and with the figures of the previous month and to take any In this context, the PV inverter is classified as a system-critical comcorrective measures necessary. An electronic management infor­ ponent, so customers place higher demands on the transparency mation system (SAP Business Warehouse) serves as the “home” of companies. 1 for the information used for reporting. In product development, SMA is pursuing a platform strategy aimed at systematically reducing product costs and being able INTRAGROUP MANAGEMENT SYSTEM to react quickly to market changes. By standardizing the core inverter, we are capable of increasing the proportion of identical In the reporting period, the basic elements of the intragroup components across the entire portfolio. Customization in line with ­management system were the regular Managing Board meeting different markets and customer needs is implemented through the and monthly discussions on results with the business unit ­managers. connection area and software. In the year under review, SMA Strategy implementation was also discussed during quarterly busiincreased its R&D expenses by 5.0% compared to the previous ness reviews with the business units as was an assessment on the year to €87.1 million (including capitalized development projects) progress of objectives. In addition, the SMA intragroup manageas a result mainly of the development of new units in the Digital ment system encompasses the regular Risks and Opportunities Energy segment and the uptick in strategically important developReport and the report prepared by the Internal Audit department. ment projects for new products. SMA was granted 1,244 patents and utility models worldwide by the end of the reporting year. In addition, around 550 other patent applications were still pending RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT as of December 31, 2018. Furthermore, SMA holds the rights to 1,048 trademarks. In the last five years alone, SMA has invested nearly €500 million in the development of new products and solutions. We use our Research and Development Expenses of the SMA Group systems expertise to develop holistic solutions for different photovoltaic applications and for comprehensive energy management across all segments and sectors (power generators, household in € million 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 appliances, storage systems, heating, ventilation and air-conditioning, e-mobility). To offer our customers technically mature and Research and economic system solutions in all market segments and regions, we ­development expenses 87.1 83.0 78.3 96.0 129.1 selectively collaborate with strong partners. With our continuous of which capitalized research and our ­marketand customer-focused development, we development projects 18.8 18.4 12.5 29.5 40.9 can further reduce the consumer cost of PV electricity and decrease Depreciation on ­capitalized development the complexity in the new, decentralized and digital energy world, projects (scheduled) 21.4 18.2 19.8 13.6 14.9 thus making a significant contribution to a successful global energy Research and transition. Our innovations have won numerous awards, most ­development ratio in % recently in June 2018 at Intersolar Europe in Munich. in relation to sales 11.4 9.3 8.3 9.8 16.0 1 T his paragraph is not a mandatory component of the management report as defined in Section 315 HGB in conjunction with GAS 20, and therefore not a subject of the financial audit. Annual Report 2018 // SMA Solar Technology AG 32 Combined Management Report – Basic Information About the Group Complete Solutions to Lower Energy Costs 1 COMMERCIAL APPLICATIONS: AWARD-WINNING ENERGY MANAGEMENT AND CONVENIENT DIRECT MARKETING PRIVATE SYSTEMS: MORE SELF-CONSUMPTION AND In the medium-sized PV system segment for commercial applica­COMPLETE SYSTEM PACKAGES tions (Commercial), SMA launched its completely new IoT platform for energy management at the start of 2018: ennexOS ­effectively In the period under review, SMA expanded its solution portfolio for reduces energy costs across all sectors (power generators, housereducing household energy costs in the market segment for smaller hold appliances, storage systems, heating, ventilation and air-­ rooftop PV systems (Residential). The focus here was on more efficonditioning, e-mobility). The modular functionality of the platcient use of self-generated solar power and further development form can be adjusted to the user’s individual requirements at any of intelligent energy management across all sectors. SMA’s Sunny time. This ranges from monitoring energy flows and automatically Home Manager is the world’s most used energy management optimizing total energy costs to involving households and compa­system for private applications. nies in the energy market of the future. As a central interface, the new SMA Data Manager M allows for perfect communication With smart module technology that can be used in a targeted way and monitoring and can also be used to manage all future energy and the SMA Smart Connected service function integrated directly flows. After ennexOS was presented with the prestigious Terawatt into the inverter, SMA Residential Solutions facilitate maximum Diamond Award for outstanding technological developments at the energy yields and the greatest possible convenience for PV ­system Chinese solar power trade fair SNEC in Shanghai in May, it went owners and installers. In addition to the proven Sunny Boy inverton to win the smarter E AWARD when this was conferred for the ers, SMA presented another valuable core component for the first time at Intersolar Europe in June. The functions are successively solutions during the reporting period: the new Sunny ­Tripower enhanced in regular updates. 3.0–6.0 PV inverter. With a weight of just 17 kilograms, this small three-phase inverter for residential PV systems is lighter and more In addition, SMA presented its new planning software Sunny compact than comparable products. Low weight is particularly Design PRO at Intersolar Europe. For the first time, the software important for solar power professionals, as it makes installation makes it possible for system planners to plan commercial PV sysconsiderably easier. Via the integrated web interface, the Sunny tems across all sectors, simulate operations and calculate total sysTripower can quickly and easily be put into operation using a tem costs. Electrical power generators and loads, battery-storage smartphone or tablet. This inverter has been available worldwide systems and thermal components such as heating and heat pumps since the fourth quarter of 2018. are all taken into account here. In June, SMA announced another partnership for intelligent integraSMA SPOT, the solution for direct marketing of solar power jointly tion of e-mobility into home energy management. In this collabodeveloped by SMA and the Mannheim-based energy company ration, Audi and SMA will pool their expertise to develop an inteMVV Energie AG, has been available since June 2018. This is grated solution for reliable and cost-optimized charging of the Audi ­Germany’s first economic direct marketing solution for PV systems e-tron electric model. with an output of more than 100 kWp that factors in the proportion of electricity demand that can be covered by self-generated To make the generation and use of solar power even more attracelectricity. There are also plans to offer this service in other regions tive, in the reporting period SMA investigated how PV system in the future. operators can be integrated into the SolarCoin ecosystem via the world’s largest solar monitoring platform, Sunny Portal. The SolarIn the fourth quarter, SMA established new solutions for comCoin Foundation rewards the generation of solar power by issuing mercial PV applications in the important North American market, the cryptocurrency SolarCoin. One SolarCoin (SLR) is issued per including new versions of the successful Sunny Tripower CORE1. megawatt-hour generated. The solution developed by SMA gives In addition to SMA’s tried and trusted inverter with an output of PV system operators registered in Sunny Portal easy and conve50 kW, customers can now choose an additional version with an nient access to SolarCoins since the beginning of February 2019. output of 62.5 kW for larger commercial PV systems equipped with highly efficient modules and a model with an output of 33.3 kW To provide optimal support to the important customer group of for smaller or heavily segmented PV systems. All three models are installers in their customer business SMA has developed complete equipped with the most recent SMA performance and security funcsystem packages for the Residential and Commercial segments, tions and meet the NEC standards applicable in the U.S. market which, in addition to solar and battery inverters, include battery starting 2019. storage, energy management and design software as well as customized services. They are distributed in select markets since early 2019. 1 T his section is not a mandatory component of the management report as defined in Section 315 HGB in conjunction with GAS 20, and therefore not a subject of the financial audit. SMA Solar Technology AG // Annual Report 2018 Basic Information About the Group – Combined Management Report 33 PV POWER PLANTS: HIGH-PERFORMANCE AND COST-­ STORAGE SEGMENT: FLEXIBLE STORAGE INTEGRATION EFFECTIVE SOLUTIONS FOR CENTRAL AND DECENTRALIZED FOR ALL SYSTEM SIZES ARCHITECTURES The Storage segment is comprised of SMA’s system technology In the segment of large-scale PV power plants (Utility), developfor integrating battery-storage systems of all system sizes. In Octoment in the reporting period focused on further increasing power ber 2018, SMA announced the expansion of a strategic partnerdensity to reduce PV power plant costs with central and decentralship with BYD, one of the world’s largest battery manufacturers. ized designs, and on secure system integration. In addition, SMA In this partnership, SMA and BYD jointly develop and market enhanced its service offer, especially with regard to the moderni­ ­technical solutions for private and commercial storage applicazation of large PV systems (repowering). tions. A special focus of the expanded collaboration is growth in the U.S. future market. Additional growth markets, such as Africa, The new Sunny Highpower PEAK3 is the first SMA string inverter complement the joint international growth initiatives, especially as for 1,500-volt DC voltage. The inverter with an output of 150 kWp the companies can utilize their joint success for off-grid application allows for flexible planning, rapid project implementation and easy experience. service in PV power plants with a decentralized architecture and provides maximum power even under extreme conditions. Delivery An important element of SMA’s solutions for private storage starts from March 2019. applications is the Sunny Boy Storage. This battery inverter was launched in the new power classes 3.7 kW, 5.0 kW and 6.0 kW in In 1,500-volt PV power plants with central architecture, the new May 2018. With this AC-coupled solution for integrating high-voltSunny Central 3000-EV can reduce specific costs by up to 10% age batteries into residential PV systems, it is particularly easy and due to its high power density. Additionally, thanks to further cost-effective to equip new and existing PV systems and subse­optimizations, the central inverter can operate at full power even quently flexibly enhance them. For the first time, the battery inverter at temperatures of up to 35°C. Since the third quarter of 2018, the makes it possible to connect up to three high-voltage batteries Sunny Central 3000-EV has also been available worldwide as a from different manufactures. In addition, the Sunny Boy Storage fully integrated turnkey container solution with one or two inverters 3.7/5.0/6.0 is SMA’s first battery inverter equipped with the with a total output of up to 6 MW in combination with perfectly SMA Smart Connected service. PV system operators and installers matched medium-voltage technology. thus benefit from free monitoring and automatic notice if service is required. With the Sunny Central UP, SMA has once again successfully increased the output of its largest central inverter by more than The new Sunny Central Storage, the key element in SMA’s solu50%. Its output of 4.6 MW enables a considerable reduction in the tion for large storage systems, won the ees AWARD at Intersolar number of inverters in large 1,500-volt PV power plants and thus Europe. The battery inverter, which is used globally, has a high significantly lowers operating costs. The inverter has been availpower density and is compatible with virtually all battery technolable for order since September 2018. Delivery will start in the third ogies thanks to its wide battery voltage range. With its ability to quarter of 2019. ensure off-grid supply as well, the Sunny Central Storage is optimally prepared for future requirements. It is available as a turnkey In addition, all SMA central inverters now have a fully integrated container solution in combination with medium-voltage transformers hardware and software solution for simple connection of DC-couand switchgears. pled battery-storage systems. This inverter option has been available for order since September 2018 and will be delivered starting The SMA Sunbelt Energy business division focuses on PV projects the end of the first quarter of 2019. in off-grid areas and PV diesel hybrid projects in sunbelt areas around the world. The subsidiary has also been involved in major Along with product innovations, the service portfolio was made battery-storage projects in select markets since last year. In the more flexible and adapted even better to changes in customer reporting period, SMA Sunbelt Energy supplied, among other needs in 2018. Among other things, SMA is now offering ­tailored things, battery management, grid integration as well as monitoring services for the modernization of PV power plants, so-called system technology to the German Langenreichenbach and Bennerepowering solutions. The concepts are aimed, in particular, witz large-scale storage system projects. With an output of 16 MW at the installed base of competitors with insufficient product or each, these storage power plants provide important grid services, ­service ­performance. There is also a focus on interfering as little which are becoming ever more important given the increasing share as ­possible in the infrastructure of the projects. An upgrade to new of fluctuating grid feed-in from renewable energy sources. They thus functions and complementary business models, such as storage help not only alleviate the burden on local grids but also stabilize systems, is also a possibility. The main target markets are the U.S., the interconnected Central European electricity grid. Germany, Spain, Italy and Greece. Annual Report 2018 // SMA Solar Technology AG 34 Combined Management Report – Basic Information About the Group DIGITAL ENERGY: INNOVATIVE SOLUTIONS FOR CUSTOMER NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 1 RETENTION AND ELECTRICITY COST SAVINGS [GRI 102–14] Since SMA was founded, sustainability has been In the Digital Energy segment, the SMA subsidiary coneva an essential part of its corporate mission statement. We understand launched several pilot projects with public utility companies in sustainability as combining long-term economic success with pro2018. The white label solutions developed by coneva for public tection of the environment and social responsibility. Our sense of utility companies integrate both prosumers and traditional energy identity includes satisfied employees thanks to an attractive corpocustomers of utility companies into the world of digital energy rate culture, a fair and honest business policy, social commitment, and enable them to use energy simply and cost-efficiently. As a exemplary handling of environmental issues and resources through result, public utility companies facilitate their customers’ ability to sustainable production, and the use of renewable energy sources participate directly in the energy transition, forge closer ties with at all levels of the value chain. With our products and services, them and increase their competitiveness in a dynamic environwe are driving the transition to a globally sustainable, renewable ment. The projects initiated by coneva include the partnership energy supply and are helping curb global climate change. with Stadtwerke München announced in July. The aim is to jointly develop an integrated energy management system with which The SMA Managing Board is committed to the ten principles of households and commercial enterprises can generate, store and the UN Global Compact, which SMA signed back in 2011. Based make optimum use of their own electricity. The software-based and on these principles and the 17 UN Sustainable Development modular energy management system on the basis of the SMA platGoals, we continuously develop our commitment to sustainability. form ennexOS is to be integrated into the Smart Meter Gateway. In this way, we want to help meet the challenges associated with a steadily growing population, rising globalization and urbanization, In commercial applications, coneva also implemented a pilot and increasingly scarce resources. The focus here is particularly ­project for cross-sector energy management together with Danfoss on Goal 7: “Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and Cooling in a supermarket in Oldenburg, Germany. The solution modern energy.” installed there, based on SMA’s ennexOS platform, links a PV system to a storage system, the supermarket’s refrigeration system, [GRI 102–11, 12, 14, 18, 48–52, 54] On the following pages, the heating as well as charging stations for electric vehicles in the we report on the developments and progress we made in terms customer parking lot. Through targeted management of ­electrical of sustainability in the 2018 fiscal year. Significant risks from the and thermal generators and loads, the supermarket saves on ­Company’s business activities and from its products and services ­electricity costs, reduces its CO2 emissions and can also support that could have negative effects on the aspects covered in the the utility grid. Due to its modular structure, the solution comprising Non-Financial Statement are described in the Risks and Opporhardware, software and services can be used variably according tunities Report starting on page 58. An overview of sustainability to individual requirements and therefore proves attractive to other key figures can be found at the end of the Annual Report on pages industries in which the effective reduction of electricity costs is a 128 et seq. In addition, we publish information about sustainability competitive advantage for companies. at SMA on our website at www.SMA.de/en. The report uses the Core option of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards. The disclosures also fulfill the criteria of the UN Global Compact annual progress report. In the future, we will also report on how the Company’s activities measure up against each of the 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals. The precautionary principle, as outlined in the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development, is also an integral part and driving force of our sustainability commitment. 1 The section “Non-Financial Statement”, which contains the disclosures pursuant to Sections 289b – 289e and Sections 315b and 315c HGB, is not subject to auditing in accordance with Section 317(2) sentence 4 HGB. Only the presence is to be checked. SMA Solar Technology AG // Annual Report 2018 Basic Information About the Group – Combined Management Report 35 Sustainability – An Important Element KEY FACTORS DETERMINED USING STAKEHOLDER ANALYSIS of the SMA Strategy 2020 [GRI 102–40, 42–44, 46, 47, 103–1] Ongoing dialogue with various interest groups and the general public is important to us. [GRI 102–14, 22, 23, 34] SMA knows that a comprehensive, In 2017, we carried out a stakeholder analysis to identify key credible commitment to sustainability is possible only when it is an areas of action for a sustainable company strategy. Our survey established part of the corporate strategy. That is why sustainability gave internal and external interest groups (customers, suppliers, is an essential element of the SMA Strategy 2020. Objective 5 of employees, NGOs) the chance to directly influence the developthis strategy is: SMA is an attractive company – working sustainment of SMA’s sustainability commitment. The survey included ably along the entire value chain. The sustainability mission statethree sections: sustainable company, sustainable product design ment developed in 2012 was adapted to the Strategy 2020. and sustainable value chain. The results of the stakeholder analysis serve as the basis for continuous development of our commitment On this basis, we have defined four areas of action for sustainability to sustainability. that comprise the following topics: Using the example of sustainable product design, the graphic below shows the analysis of the key areas of action. Internal and external stakeholders were asked about the relevance (materiality) PRODUCTS AND ENVIRONMENT EMPLOYEES SOCIAL of presorted issues from the points of view of the stakeholder and PROCESSES AND ENERGY ­RESPONSIBILITY of SMA. The materiality analysis revealed that many of the issues relating to sustainable product design we identified were highly Quality and safety Resource efficiency Culture of Responsibility in relevant. ­feedback the supply chain Customer Preventive environ­satisfaction mental protection Advanced training Stakeholder dialogue/­ Circular economy Holistic energy Diversity transparency management Stakeholder Sustainable Occupational International 9.0 ­profitability Sustainable safety and health ­principles and mobility management values 8.8 10 5 5. Quality/ safety 7. Meet customer Social commitment 8.6 needs 7 0 10 8.4 3. Substance 8.2 requirement 6 6. Cost-benefit 4 3 ratio The four areas of action “Products and Processes,” “Employees,” 8.0 4. Responsibility in the 1 1. Resource efficiency “Environment and Energy” and “Social Responsibility” are the focal 7.8 value chain points for our commitment to sustainability. In terms of content, they 7.6 relate to factors both at the company level and at the product level. 7.4 2 2. Circular economy For all company activities, the Global Quality unit coordinates 7.2 implementation of the sustainability commitment. Decisions are 8 8. Use of alternative resources SMA 7.0 made by the Global Management Committee, which consists of 7.0 7.2 7.4 7.6 7.8 8.0 8.2 8.4 8.6 8.8 9.0 the Managing Board and top-level managers. Annual Report 2018 // SMA Solar Technology AG  36 $POTPMJEBUFE.BOBHFNFOU3FQPSU࣌#BTJD*OGPSNBUJPOBCPVUUIF(SPVQ Combined Management Report – Basic Information About the Group 46$$&44.& 463&%#:$0.1 /: /%130%6$5,1* SUCCESS MEASURED BY COMPANY AND PRODUCT KPI %FWFMPQNFOUTJOUIF'PVS SFBTPG Developments in the Four Areas of 8FNFBTVSFUIFTDPQFBOETVDDFTTPGPVSDPNNJUNFOUUPTVTUBJO DUJPOJOUIF3FQPSUJOH:FBS Action in the Reporting Year We measure the scope and success of our commitment to sustainBCJMJUZVTJOHB1SPEVDU,FZ'JHVSFBOEB$PNQBOZ,FZ'JHVSF ability using a Product Key Figure and a Company Key Figure. 5IFTFUXP꽌 These HVSFTXFSFDPNQJMFEGPSUIF꽌 two figures were compiled for the first STUUJNFJO*OEJB time in 2017. In dia<(3*࣌> TBSFTVMUPGUIFJOUFHSBUFENBOBHFNFOU [GRI 103–1, 2–3] As a result of the integrated management TZTUFN MPHVFCFUXFFOTQFDJBMJTUTVOETUBLFIPMEFSTGSPNEJGGFSFOUBSFBTPG logue between specialists und stakeholders from different areas of JNQMFNFOUFEBUUIFIFBERVBSUFSTJO/JFTUFUBM,BTTFM ­system implemented at the headquarters in Niestetal/Kassel, XFG PMMPX we the UIF$PNQBOZ Company,XFUIFOUIPSPVHIMZTDSVUJOJ[FEUIFNBJOTVTUBJOB we then thoroughly scrutinized the main sustaina­ DMFBSMZEF꽌 OFENBOBHFNFOUBQQSPBDIFTBOEBMTPNFFUUIF ­follow clearly defined management approaches and also meet the CJMJUZESJWFSTJOUIFGPVSBSFBTPGBDUJPOBHBJOJOBOEBEKVTUFE bility drivers in the four areas of action again in 2018 and adjusted SFRVJSFNFOUTJOBDDPSEBODFXJUI%*/&/*40 requirements in accordance with DIN EN ISO 9001,%*/&/ DIN EN ISO UIFQBSBNFUFST5IFOFYUTUFQXJMMJOWPMWFNBLJOHBMMPGUIFESJWFST the parameters. The next step will involve making all of the drivers *40 %*/&/*40BOE%*/5IFTFBMTP 14001, DIN EN ISO 50001 and DIN EN ISO 45001. These also NFBTVSBCMFBOEBMMPDBUJOHBNCJUJPVTUBSHFUT measurable and allocating ambitious targets,XIJDIDBOUIFOCF which can then be JO꽍VFODFEUIFTQFDJ꽌 influenced DBUJPOPGLFZBTQFDUTXJUIJOUIFGPVSBSFBTPG the specification of key aspects within the four areas of VTFEBTUIFCBTJTGPSNFBTVSJOHUIFTVTUBJOBCJMJUZQFSGPSNBODFJO used as the basis for measuring the sustainability performance in BDUJPO%VFUPUIFFYUFOTJWFJOUFSOBMFYQFSUEJBMPHVF Due to the extensive internal expert dialogue,UIFEF꽌 action. OJUJPO the definition UIF$PNQBOZ,FZ'JHVSFBOEUIF1SPEVDU,FZ'JHVSF the Company Key Figure and the Product Key Figure. of PGTQFDJ꽌 specificDUBSHFUTGPSBMMLFZBTQFDUTBUUIFQSPEVDUBOEDPNQBOZ targets for all key aspects at the product and company MFWFM࣌XIJDIXBTPSJHJOBMMZQMBOOFEGPS࣌IBTOPUZFUCFFO level – which was originally planned for 2018 – has not yet been 5IF$PNQBOZ,FZ'JHVSFNFBTVSFTUIFVTFPGSFTPVSDFTBOEUIF The Company Key Figure measures the use of resources and the DPNQMFUFE3FHBSEMFTTPGUIJT completed. Regardless of this,4. TVDDFTTGVMMZJNQMFNFOUFE SMA successfully implemented WBMVFUIBUUIJTDSFBUFT5IFBJNIFSFJTUPDSFBUFNPSFWBMVFXJUI value that this creates. The aim here is to create more value with VSUIFSNFBTVSFTJOUIFGPVSBSFBTPGBDUJPOJO ­fGurther measures in the four areas of action in 2018,XIJDIXF which we GFXFSSFTPVSDFT5IFCJHHFSUIFHBQCFUXFFOUIFWBMVFDSFBUFE fewer resources. The bigger the gap between the value created SFQPSUPOCFMPX report on below. BOEUIFSFTPVSDFTVTFEUPEPTP and the resources used to do so,UIFNPSFTVTUBJOBCMFUIF$PN the more sustainable the ComQBOZ8FIBWFEFUFSNJOFEUIFGPMMPXJOHQBSBNFUFSTGPSUIJT pany. We have determined the following parameters for this: AREA 3& 0' $5*0/130%6$54 /%130$&44&4 OF ACTION: PRODUCTS AND PROCESSES $VTUPNFSTBUJTGBDUJPOJTUIFCBTJTGPSUIFMPOHUFSNFDPOPNJDTVD Customer satisfaction is the basis for the long-term economic suc*ODSFBTFJO 1SP꽌UBCJMJUZ cess DFTTPGUIF$PNQBOZ8JUIPVSTUSPOHDBQBDJUZGPSJOOPWBUJPOBOE of the Company. With our strong capacity for innovation and 2VBMJUZ high IJHIRVBMJUZBMPOHUIFFOUJSFWBMVFDIBJO quality along the entire value chain,XFEFWFMPQTVTUBJOBCMF we develop sustainable $PSQPSBUF$JUJ[FOTIJQ 4VTUBJOBCMF4VQQMZ$IBJO QSPEVDUTBOEQSPDFTTFTUIBUNFFUUIFDIBOHJOHEFNBOETPGBO products and processes that meet the changing demands of an JODSFBTJOHMZEJHJUBMJ[FEXPSME increasingly digitalized world,BOEUIFSFRVJSFNFOUTGPSTVTUBJOB and the requirements for sustaina­ CJMJUZBOEBDJSDVMBSFDPOPNZ)FSFXFDPODFOUSBUFPOUIFGPMMPX bility and a circular economy. Here we concentrate on the follow)JHIFS JOHJTTVFT ing issues: TVTUBJOBCJMJUZ QFSGPSNBODF 0OHPJOH*NQSPWFNFOUPG2VBMJUZBOE8BTUF3FEVDUJPO Ongoing Improvement of Quality and Waste Reduction 5JNF JOBMM#VTJOFTT1SPDFTTFT࣌'PDVTPO4VQQMJFS2VBMJUZ in all Business Processes – Focus on Supplier Quality 3FEVDUJPOJO <(3*࣌࣌ [GRI 416–1–3] >8IFOTFSWJOHPVSDVTUPNFST When serving our customers, PVSBJNJTUPGVM꽌 our aim is to fulfillMM .BUFSJBM UIFIJHIFTURVBMJUZSFRVJSFNFOUTBUBMMUJNFT8FBJNGPSBEEFE the highest quality requirements at all times. We aim for added 8BTUF WBMVF [FSPEFGFDUUPMFSBODFBOE꽍 FYJCMFRVBMJUZDPODFQUTPOB $0&NJTTJPOT value, zero defect tolerance and flexible quality concepts on a 3JTLTPG*MMOFTT HMPCBMMFWFM4. ࣒TIFBERVBSUFSTJO,BTTFM/JFTUFUBMIBWFCFFO global level. SMA’s headquarters in Kassel/Niestetal have been DFSUJ꽌FECZUIF%*/&/*40RVBMJUZNBOBHFNFOUTUBOEBSE certified by the DIN EN ISO 9001 quality management standard GPSPWFSZFBST for over 20 years,UIVTHVBSBOUFFJOHDPNQMJBODFXJUISFDPHOJ[FE thus guaranteeing compliance with recognized RVBMJUZQSJODJQMFT0VSIJHITUBOEBSEPGRVBMJUZJTBMTPFOIBODFE quality principles. Our high standard of quality is also enhanced 5IF1SPEVDU,FZ'JHVSFGPMMPXTUIFTBNFQBUUFSOBOENFBTVSFTUIF The Product Key Figure follows the same pattern and measures the CZUIFBDDSFEJUBUJPOPGPVSJOIPVTF5FTU$FOUFSGPS&MFDUSPNBH by the accreditation of our in-house Test Center for ElectromagJODSFBTFJOTVTUBJOBCJMJUZPGPVSQSPEVDUTBOETFSWJDFT8FFWBMVBUF increase in sustainability of our products and services. We evaluate OFUJD$PNQBUJCJMJUZ netic Compatibility (EMC) by ISO/IEC 17025,UIFJOUFSOBUJPOBM &.$ CZ*40*&$ the international UIJTVTJOHEF꽌 OFETVTUBJOBCJMJUZDSJUFSJB this using defined sustainability criteria,XIJDIBSFCBTFEPOUIF which are based on the TUBOEBSEGPSUFTUBOEDBMJCSBUJPOMBCPSBUPSJFT*OBEEJUJPOUPUIFTF standard for test and calibration laboratories. In addition to these SFTVMUTPGPVSTUBLFIPMEFSBOBMZTJTBOEPVSJOUFSOBMFYQFSUEJBMPHVF results of our stakeholder analysis and our internal expert dialogue. BOEPUIFSNBOBHFNFOUDFSUJ꽌 and DBUJPOT PVSQSPEVDUTBMTPNFFUUIF other management certifications, our products also meet the P꽎DJBMTBGFUZTUBOEBSETSFRVJSFECZUIFWBSJPVTNBSLFUT official safety standards required by the various markets (e. FH g.,6UL, +&5 7%& JET, VDE,FUD Additionally,JOUIFQBTU etc.). EEJUJPOBMMZ in the past,PVSTVTUBJOBCMFQSPEVDU our sustainable product EFTJHODPODFQUMBSHFMZGPDVTFEPOUIFMPOHFWJUZPGUIFQSPEVDUTCZ design concept largely focused on the longevity of the products by SFEVDJOHXFBSJOHQBSUT reducing wearing parts. 4. 4PMBS5FDIOPMPHZ ( SMA Solar Technology AG / OOVBM3FQPSU / Annual Report 2018 Basic Information About the Group – Combined Management Report 37 Effective and efficient inspection and testing procedures help us In the next few years, we will develop a comprehensive strategy achieve our quality goals. Thanks to a sound quality index system, aimed at achieving a circular economy in our value chain. This we can also identify sources of error at an early stage and address strategy will focus on reusing as many materials as possible after risks to a large extent. In 2018, we particularly concentrated on our inverters have been used, from the product development stage supplier quality at SMA, implementing additional processes and on. Additional goals are waste reduction, increased recovery rates optimization measures in this area. and improved disposal (see also Area of Action: Environment and Energy). Sustainable Profitability and Limited Capital Tie-Up – SMA Inverters In 2018, we developed the basic version of a guideline for sustainAvoid Environmental Damage Amounting to €7.5 billion able product design. One focus area here is design for recycling and disassembly. The guideline is continuously expanded based on [GRI 201–2, 203–2] In addition to further cost reduction ­measures, new project results within the company. These also include the findin 2018, the SMA Managing Board resolved extensive restructuring ings from a project carried out in the year under review to invesmeasures to quickly return the company to profitability over the long tigate more homogeneous recycling of SMA inverters after they term in an environment characterized by strong price pressure. The have finished being used. The goal here is to design the inverters in main measures that are implemented since ­January 2019 include a way that enables high-quality raw materials to be returned to the giving up the locations in China and selling the Chinese companies material cycle as easy and resource-efficiently as possible after the to the local management. The restructuring is aimed at reducing end of the devices’ service life. SMA’s fixed costs and making optimal use of our capacity at the headquarters by focusing on our core competencies, outsourcing and automating activities, and reorganizing structures. Increasing Customer Satisfaction – International Survey Designed In addition, environmental damage avoided will increasingly be [GRI 102–43, 44] To understand exactly what our customers taken into account in the economic analysis of companies. Assumexpect from us, we engage in constant dialogue with them and ing an average value, SMA’s total current inverter output of around actively request feedback. This takes place at customer events as 75 GW to date is equivalent to avoided environmental damage part of the SMA partner program, at SMA Solar Academy semiamounting to €7.5 billion. Our inverters enable a cost-effective and nars and regular international trade fairs. In 2018, we also conenvironmentally friendly energy supply worldwide, helping support ducted a survey of installers in Germany that focused on how we the fight against climate change and contributing to the achievecan better support this customer group with their work. The ­survey ment of UN Sustainable Development Goals 7, 11 and 13. The is to be adapted for additional markets in 2019. In addition, we PV inverters produced by SMA to date help prevent nearly 52 mildesigned a comprehensive international customer satisfaction lion tons of CO2 emissions every year worldwide (assuming 75 GW survey for all customer groups in 2018. This will be rolled out to of output, 1,300 kWh of power generation a year per kW, 0.53 kg around 50,000 recipients worldwide in 2019. CO2/kWh). AREA OF ACTION: ENVIRONMENT AND ENERGY Achieving a Comprehensive Circular Economy – Guideline for ­Sustainable Product Design Created SMA will continuously reduce its use of resources in terms of raw materials, energy, mobility and waste along the entire value chain, [GRI 301–2, 3] As a sustainability-conscious company ­aiming for increase its use of renewable energies, environmentally friendly high resource efficiency, creating a circular economy is hugely materials and sustainable forms of mobility as well as improve its important to us. Our inverters already have a long service life. recycle and reuse rates. This will be taken into consideration early Defective devices that need to be serviced are immediately on in the development of new products and solutions. Important replaced by reconditioned devices, repaired if possible, and issues here are: ­transferred to the replacement device pool. Annual Report 2018 // SMA Solar Technology AG 38 Combined Management Report – Basic Information About the Group Increasing Resource Efficiency Throughout the Entire Product Life This has resulted in a continuous improvement in the recycling Cycle – Another Product Life Cycle Assessment Prepared and rate, which came to 87.5% of recyclable waste in 2018. SMA is Material Efficiency Increased Again working equally intensively to reduce and avoid hazardous waste materials. The packaging for some of our product groups already [GRI 301–1, 303–1, 304–1, 2, 306–2, 307–1] SMA sees in consists almost completely of environmentally friendly materials. resource efficiency a responsibility to the environment but also an economic advantage. Here the product life cycle assessment helps us find the greatest possibilities within our value chain, define the Share of Recyclable Waste in Total Waste Generation right goals and continuously improve the product sustainability key figure. The results of the assessment will be successively incorpoShare of recyclable waste in % rated into our guidelines for sustainable product design. We have already used this method in recent years for inverters in the Sunny Boy and Sunny Central product families. In 2018, we also per93 88 formed a life cycle assessment of the inverter family for commercial 84 85 85 applications, Sunny Tripower, in collaboration with the Fraunhofer Institute for Building Physics IBP. The results showed that the high efficiency and high quality standard of our inverters and their associated long service life have a positive influence. In the future, we will direct focus to our preliminary supply chain. Material efficiency – We once again increased the material efficiency of our inverters in 2018. Whereas in the previous year the weight of our string inverters had averaged 3.4 kg/kW output, in the year under review, this fell to just 2.97 kg/kW. In the area 2015 2016 2017 2018 Target 2019 of central inverters, we increased the power density such that the Sunny Central UP, which has been available to order since September 2018, produces over 50% more power with the same weight and volume than the Sunny Central 3000-EV, previously SMA’s Water – Water consumption does not play a significant role in most powerful inverter. The high power density also reduces the ­production at SMA. In some buildings, we use well water to cool number of inverters required within a PV power plant. We know the building in an environmentally friendly way. We direct the that material savings partially go hand in hand with the use of water close to the surface, which has had the positive side effect critical raw materials. That is why, in addition to the warranty with of creating a wetland habitat. which we already comply to avoid the use of conflict minerals in our inverters, we aim to act in accordance with material requireBiodiversity – Some of SMA’s properties border on conservation ments such as REACH and RoHS and to gradually reduce the use areas. We comply in full with the conditions imposed on us in this of critical and rare substances. Our standard for the use of hazrespect. There have been no administrative penalty proceedings in ardous substances was adjusted again this year. In addition to the this regard since the company was founded. We offset the unavoidrequirements of the Montreal Protocol, SMA introduced its own able space our production and administration buildings take by restrictions. We have called on all suppliers to comply with the using green roofs on nearly all our buildings. standard. In our product development process, we are currently developing further criteria for materials to be excluded or reduced to make our products more sustainable. Preventive Environmental Protection – Exemplary CO2 Balance Further Improved Waste – The issue of waste reduction is to be closely connected with our circular economy strategy. We regard waste products [GRI 302–2, 5, 305–1–5] The environmental management ­system as a secondary raw material and seek to avoid waste as much as used at SMA’s Kassel/Niestetal production location and the possible and to reuse materials. We strive to increase the share of inverter production in Yangzhong (China) are certified in accorrecyclable waste at the global SMA production locations to almost dance with DIN EN ISO 14001. This system ensures that we avoid 100% by 2020 and to no longer produce any residual waste. In environmental damage at every stage of the value chain and act addition to the comprehensive separation of all garbage categoin accordance with current environmental legislation. ries that has now been introduced in all office areas, we are also optimizing the homogeneous separation of production waste. SMA Solar Technology AG // Annual Report 2018 Basic Information About the Group – Combined Management Report 39 It is important for us to keep the environmental impact of our prodExcellence in Energy Management – Use of Renewable ucts as low as possible, beginning in the development phase. Our Energy Sources Again Increased guidelines for sustainable product design therefore lay down key design criteria that ensure our products become more sustainable [GRI 302–1–5] Another important starting point for sustainabilfrom one generation to the next. The definition of “non-preferable ity is our DIN EN ISO 50001-certified corporate energy managematerials” also contributes to sustainable design. Efforts to avoid ment policy. SMA’s energy concept is based on three levels from these materials, which pose environmental or health risks or whose which we work to improve energy-related performance: avoiding production involves a violation of human rights, are to be taken into energy consumption, using energy more efficiently and increasing consideration in the pre-development stage and tracked through to the share of renewable energies used. The goal is to supply SMA the preliminary supply chain. A key figure shows the improvements entirely with decentralized renewable energy from the local region in each individual area. To reach this figure, we take into account by 2020. In this context, the SMA Climate Roadmap forms the all stages of the value chain. In addition to the circular economy basis for continuous development of projects contributing to the issues already described, this also involves the reduction of critical energy transition at SMA’s headquarters. materials, material efficiency, efficiency and safety. The corporate social responsibility aspect must also be taken into account from SMA has already undertaken a number of flagship projects in the the product development stage on. Here, responsibility throughout past with its CO2-neutral inverter production facility at its Solar the supply chain plays a decisive role. Our life cycle assessments Factory 1 in Kassel, Germany; the Solar Academy in Niestetal, have shown us that the biggest lever for improving our product life near Kassel, Germany, which functions independently from the cycles is our suppliers’ use of renewable energy sources. utility grid; and Data Processing Center, which was completed in 2013 and is one of the most resource-efficient centers of its kind. By collecting data in accordance with the GHG Protocol Standard, These projects are a testament to the high priority SMA places on we transparently map our CO2 footprint. At the Kassel/Niestetal its sustainable energy strategy. In 2018, we increased the amount location, thanks to our excellent energy management, energy-­ of self-produced solar power in our total electricity consumption efficient buildings and a CO2-neutral electricity supply, we already to 40% (2017: 33%). This was particularly attributable to another have an exemplary CO2 balance. The long-term plan is to expand in-house PV system with an output of 750 kWp that was commisthis to the entire value chain and also factor in the production of sioned in June 2018 and also serves as a test site for new types raw materials, all our suppliers, the utilization phase and recycling of inverter. We aim to achieve our goal of supplying the SMA of our products. Our goal is to reduce the already very low emisheadquarters entirely with decentralized renewable energy from sions as defined in GHG Scope 1 and GHG Scope 2 by another the local region by 2020 as part of a sponsored project involving 5% per year. So far, we have been able to determine GHG Scope collaboration with regional partners. 3 emissions to a limited extent only. We are currently working on recording CO2 emissions in the supply chain. However, the results In addition, the energy optimization of Solar Factory 1 that began of our life cycle assessments already provide us with better insights in 2017 has been successfully completed, thereby reducing energy into the main emission factors in the value chain. consumption by 1,500 MWh per year in the heating/cooling area alone. Overall in 2018, we again reduced energy consumption per produced kW of inverter output to 3.42 kWh (2017: Development of CO2 Emissions per Produced kW Inverter Output 3.69 kWh). The introduction of special energy management software also makes it possible to monitor all types of consumption on CO2 emissions Scope 1 + Scope 2 in kg/kW an ongoing basis. A large amount of data from all our SMA locations is already being monitored by this software. 1.54 1.28 0.90 0.79 1.18 1.05 0.71 0.62 0.36 0.22 0.19 0.17 2015 2016 2017 2018 Germany Abroad Annual Report 2018 // SMA Solar Technology AG 40 Combined Management Report – Basic Information About the Group Development of Energy Consumption per Produced kW Logistics are also continuously being made more efficient. In 2018, Inverter Output for the first time SMA tested the use of electric trucks for internal logistics. Electric vehicles are already in use at our production sites Total energy consumption in kWh/kW in the form of electric forklifts and tugger trains. Due to its international positioning, air travel is an important issue for SMA. Measures such as the consistent use of our video ­conference rooms to avoid air travel reduce some of the burden in this respect. In the future, we will further increase our efforts to avoid air travel. 6.66 4.49 AREA OF ACTION: EMPLOYEES 3.69 3.42 The high level of commitment and willingness of our employees to always learn are essential factors in SMA’s success. In the competition for talent, it is extremely important to us to be perceived as an 2015 2016 2017 2018 attractive employer. That is why continuing to develop our corporate culture, based on fairness and respect, is an important part of our SMA Strategy 2020. We put our values of trust, performance and team spirit into practice in our day-to-day work, creating scope In the future, we will extend the climate roadmap from our own for responsible, entrepreneurial action and opportunities for shaplocations to those of our suppliers, helping them make their energy ing international collaboration. supply sustainable and efficient. Employee Headcount Slightly Increased From Hiring Sustainable Mobility – Around 58 Tons of CO2 Saved Temporary Staff on the Commute to Work [GRI 102–7, 8, 401–1; UNGC 6] As of December 31, 2018, [GRI 305–5] SMA’s commitment to sustainability also includes corSMA had 3,353 employees worldwide (December 31, 2017: porate mobility management that has already won multiple awards 3,213 employees; figures do not include temporary employees). and that raises employee awareness of environmentally friendly Employee figures in Germany increased to 2,212 (December 31, forms of transportation. Our fleet organization, recognized by non2017: 2,077). This rise can be attributed primarily to SMA’s hirprofit environmental and consumer protection association Deutsche ing temporary employees on fixed-term contracts in the first half Umwelthilfe as a good example of climate protection, includes of 2018. By contrast, the number of employees abroad remained a bonus/malus system for our vehicle fleet’s CO2 emissions. By nearly constant at 1,141 (December 31, 2017: 1,136) despite the 2020, we aim to reduce the vehicles’ CO2 emissions to 95 g/km. hiring of temporary employees on fixed-term contracts. This target is to be achieved partly by promoting e-mobility. At our headquarters in Kassel/Niestetal, we provide employees and SMA still uses temporary employees to absorb order fluctuations. visitors with 45 charging stations, at which ­electric vehicles can As of the reporting date, the number of temporary employees be charged with CO2-neutral electricity. Thanks to these charging decreased by 411 to 290 worldwide (December 31, 2017: 701 stations, SMA employees with electric vehicles alone saved around temporary employees). Temporary employees at SMA are paid the 58 tons of CO2 on their commute to work in 2018. Along with same hourly rate as SMA employees performing similar duties. expanding the charging infrastructure, we are also promoting e-mobility by giving all employees the option of electric vehicle leasing. We are also gradually changing over the in-house vehicle fleet to e-mobility. Within the SMA vehicle fleet, we used data loggers to examine the route profiles and their suitability for the use of electric vehicles in 2018. Electric vehicles already account for more than 20% of our fleet. By 2020, our goal is to have at least half of the vehicles in the fleet electrically powered using renewable energy. Another aspect of the corporate mobility management system relates to increasing the proportion of cyclists. In 2018, almost 300 employees made use of the bicycle leasing system introduced in 2016. SMA Solar Technology AG // Annual Report 2018 Basic Information About the Group – Combined Management Report 41 Employees We use our annual employee appraisals to coordinate the tasks 2018/ 2017/ 2016/ 2015/ 2014/ of each employee and the associated qualification requirements, to Reporting date 12/31 12/31 12/31 12/31 12/31 measure performance and to provide feedback on collaboration in an exchange between manager and employee. Global employee Employees (excl. surveys, carried out every two years, complement our culture of ­temporary employees) 3,353 3,213 3,345 3,330 5,060 feedback. We derive internal measures from the results of these of which domestic 2,212 2,077 2,093 2,081 3,469 surveys. of which abroad 1,141 1,136 1,252 1,249 1,591 Temporary employees 290 701 530 671 467 In addition, three web-based, cross-functional global leadership Total employees (incl. fundamentals workshops were held in 2018. These workshops temporary employees) 3,643 3,914 3,875 4,001 5,527 were open to employees from all countries, hierarchical levels and areas of SMA. They were aimed at developing a shared global understanding of leadership based on the values and objectives from the SMA Strategy 2020. The workshops represented the first step in developing a shared mindset on leadership in mixed teams, Full-Time Equivalents in an interactive, participatory and sustainable way. The fundamen2018/ 2017/ 2016/ 2015/ 2014/ tals developed will apply globally and specify what employees Reporting date 12/31 12/31 12/31 12/31 12/31 can expect from their managers and what managers can expect from their employees. Full-time equivalents (excl. trainees and ­temporary employees) 3,177 3,006 3,118 3,110 4,667 Lifelong Learning and Targeted Development of Talent of which domestic 2,053 1,888 1,881 1,872 3,094 of which abroad 1,124 1,118 1,237 1,238 1,573 [GRI 404–1, 2] SMA operates in a dynamic environment that places high demands on our employees. Radical developments, such as rapid digitalization of the energy supply and Work 4.0, require new skills and competencies. For us, sustainable personnel As part of the restructuring, layoffs are unfortunately unavoidable. development therefore means providing our employees with opporThe SMA Managing Board plans to cut around 425 full-time positunities for lifelong learning, individual development and building tions worldwide by mid-2019. Approximately 110 of these full-time qualifications to current and future challenges. In addition to exterpositions relate to Germany and around 315 to locations abroad. nal training, SMA employees benefit from a diverse internal trainThe staff reductions outside Germany will mostly take place as ing program comprising a variety of topics. Furthermore, we offer a result of the sale of the Chinese companies to the local manage­ our Technology and Sales employees in particular subject-specific ment. The layoffs are to be implemented in a transparent and content via our SMA University and Online Sales Academy. To socially responsible way. make existing knowledge accessible throughout the company and to ensure we learn from each other, information is exchanged and Additional key figures on employees, in particular on the gender channeled through peer groups. We also gave particular attention balance at management level, can be found in the overview of to the topic of “new work” in 2018. With the “Future Blog“, we ­sustainability key figures on pages 128 et seq. created a platform on which employees from different parts of the company can launch initiatives, invite others to join in and present their results. In addition, in 2018, we set up a “Future Office“ High Transparency and Strong Feedback Culture ­covering an entire floor of one of our office buildings. The concept centers on agile work methods, constantly changing project teams [GRI 102–41, 402–1; UNGC 3] As a global company, SMA and creative workplace environments with the option to choose ensures that respect for human rights, including freedom of assothe right environment for upcoming tasks. ciation and the International Labour Organization (ILO) rules, is guaranteed at all locations at all times. Open and trustful inter­ action with each other as well as the highest possible transparency and involvement of employees in corporate decisions are highly important to us. That is why we provide our employees with regular and comprehensive information about developments and changes in the company. Annual Report 2018 // SMA Solar Technology AG 42 Combined Management Report – Basic Information About the Group In the reporting year, we ran national and international talent Given the Company’s strong technology orientation, the proportion management projects aimed at systematically supporting talented of male employees is comparatively high. On December 31, 2018, employees and opening up long-term development prospects for 74.6% of employees were male and 25.4% female. Our aim is them. We support talented employees with individual development to continuously increase the percentage of female employees. plans and group-oriented measures over a period of at least 12 We offer our employees family-friendly working conditions. This months, and prepare them for project management or management includes flexible working hours and models, the possibility of worktasks. The aim is to create a global network to ensure success in ing from home, childcare and other family services. Other measures current and future business fields. to support female employees include mentoring and targeted support for self-managed internal networks. Our Leadership Development Program, designed to promote a culture of leadership and cross-divisional global collaboration, is We also aim to integrate different cultures and strengthen collaboaimed at middle-management executives from all departments. The ration between employees of different nationalities. SMA employs program includes various aspects of leadership topics, which are people of 54 different nationalities in 18 countries. In addition to communicated through individual coaching and working on global promoting international collaboration, the possibility of deployment projects and serve to promote entrepreneurial thinking and action to our international locations and regular intercultural training, with a focus on strategic management. We work to ensure that in 2017, we started implementing a concept to integrate ­refugees the composition of these programs is at least representative of the into our vocational training program. In the reporting year, ­proportion of women in the company as a whole. ­refugees from Afghanistan, Iraq, Iran and Syria were carrying out vocational training at SMA. In 2018, SMA invested a total of around €1.8 million in employee training. Performance-Based Remuneration for Motivated Employees Vocational training as a key element in securing and fostering the next generation is also a high priority at SMA. We currently [GRI 202–1, 401–2] In addition to appreciating our employees in offer training at the Kassel/Niestetal location in five different the form of qualified feedback and further development opportuni­training occupations in both the industrial/technical and commerties, it is important to us to acknowledge their commitment and percial s­ ectors. As of December 31, 2018, 72 young people were in formance through appropriate remuneration. Our job level model, vocational training at SMA (December 31, 2017: 94 people). Folin use in Germany, the U.S. and Poland since 2016, helps create lowing vocational training, a transfer concept creates the possibility transparency and enable comparison of compensation across all for further employment at SMA. The trainees benefit from the inter­ areas of the Company. It is based on the requirements of each national nature of the organization and, apart from the opportunity position and the employee’s individual performance. to complete language training courses, they have the chance to complete an internship on project work at an international location For us, it goes without saying that there are no systematic differfor a defined period of time. We are committed to supporting the ences in the remuneration of female and male employees. In addinext generation of MINT (mathematics, information technology, tion to fixed and performance-related remuneration components, natural sciences and technology) trainees in several ways, includour remuneration system also includes non-cash remuneration and ing r­ unning the annual Girls Camp at SMA. components of the company pension plan. In addition, both perma­ nent employees and temporary staff participate financially in the Company’s success. Temporary employees at SMA are paid the Continuously Increasing Diversity same hourly rate as SMA employees performing similar duties. It also goes without saying that SMA complies with the legal provi[GRI 405–1] We see the diversity of our employees as an asset sions on minimum wage. to our company. SMA is committed to equal opportunities and promotes collaboration in “mixed” teams. In joining the “Diversity Charter” in 2011, we undertook to create a work environment in which all employees have the same opportunities for development, regardless of gender, nationality, religion or ideology, disability, age or sexual orientation. SMA Solar Technology AG // Annual Report 2018 Basic Information About the Group – Combined Management Report 43 Attractive Employer With Exemplary Occupational Safety AREA OF ACTION: CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY and Health Management As an international company, SMA meets its societal and moral [GRI 403–1–7] Occupational safety and health management, a responsibilities with regard to all relevant interest groups. Internahealth promotion policy and workplace rehabilitation management tionally applicable laws and standards apply both to our locations are part of sustainable safeguarding of the company’s future. The and to the entire supply chain. We are a member of national and focus of occupational safety and health management at SMA is on international organizations and associations to promote the growth avoiding work-related accidents and illnesses. We work in accorof renewable energy sources. dance with the principle of prevention. Targeted, regular safety inspections and training, the inclusion of occupational safety and health management in workplace design, and the binding regulaCompliance With All International Regulations, Fair and tion of responsibility ensure a high level of safety in all workplace ­Transparent Along the Entire Value Chain environments. Integrating laws and ordinances as well as implementing technical standards into our business processes has always [GRI 102–12, 16, 205–1–3, 407–1, 408–1, 409–1, 412–1, 3, been a matter of course for us. Occupational safety and health 413–1] Respect for human rights and compliance with legal regumanagement processes are regulated by the provisions of the manlations are of the utmost priority to SMA. By signing the UN Global agement system BS OHSAS 18001, which was introduced at the Compact in 2011, we made a public declaration of our commitKassel/Niestetal headquarters in 2012. In 2018, SMA became ment to responsible corporate ­governance. At the core of the UN one of the first companies to be certified in accordance with the initiative are ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor stannew DIN EN ISO 45001. Various subject-specific and departdards, environmental protection and anti-corruption. ment-specific meetings take place regularly to ensure the topic of occupational safety and health management is firmly established As early as 2009, SMA signed the cross-sector code of conduct within the company. These include the quarterly meetings held issued by the German Association of Supply Chain Management, by the occupational safety committee, with participation from the Procurement and Logistics (BME e.V.). In 2010, we supplemented responsible Managing Board member. this code of conduct with SMA’s own guidelines for suppliers (SMA Supplier Code). This Supplier Code covers topics such as corrupAs the workforce ages, health promotion – and particularly ergotion, antitrust law, ethical principles, labor standards and employee nomics and psychological risk assessment – is becoming increasrights, environmental protection, quality and product safety. In the ingly important. SMA’s health management policy is aimed at future, we intend to align ourselves even more closely with the UN avoiding chronic unfavorable stress and thus minimizing the risk Sustainable Development Goals. Suppliers must sign the SMA Supof illness and reducing the illness rate. Our various health meaplier Code on conclusion of a contract. sures are quality-assured and developed and implemented to meet the requirements of particular target groups. One area of focus is Compliance – with legal provisions and internal directives – has agingand age-adapted workplace design in production and logisbecome increasingly important in recent years. A risk-oriented and tics. In this context, we introduced the “Ergonomic Requirements” preventive compliance strategy is now more important than ever. design guideline in the product development process in 2018, as SMA Group Compliance has formulated the business principles well as initiating the “MARIE” cooperation program in conjunction and directives from which basic work sequences and processes are with rehabilitation clinics and pension funds to support employees derived and implemented globally. All employees are obligated, with altered performance. The key figure for “age stable workin the context of their work for SMA, to act ethically in accorplaces” that was introduced in production in 2017 showed an dance with the directives and with the laws and regulations of their increase in the proportion of age-adapted workplaces to 53.5% in ­country. Compliance with these obligations is consolidated through 2018. Many specific examples at SMA in 2018 showed that an regular, global obligatory compliance training. At the end of ergonomically designed workplace helps make work easier, sim2018, we also published the SMA Compliance Manual, in which pler and therefore more reliable in terms of quality. In the intervenall Corporate Compliance guidelines were revised and compiled. tion areas, the sick rate fell by more than two percentage points. At regular intervals, Group Compliance reports to the Managing Board and Supervisory Board with information on the latest developments, suspicious cases, measures and processes. In 2018, no risks of corruption or complaints were determined. Annual Report 2018 // SMA Solar Technology AG 44 Combined Management Report – Basic Information About the Group Information is available on the intranet and via hotlines for employassociation SolarPower Europe (SPE), where SMA experts preside ees with questions or suspicions about compliance. Our executives over the “Digitalisation & Solar Task Force”, among others. In this are supported by the legal provisions task force on important issues context, we work with politicians, industry associations and the in environmental and occupational safety law. There were no violageneral public advocating for increased installation of renewtions determined in this respect in 2018. able energy in conjunction with cross-sector energy management and optimizing the conditions for a completely decentralized and SMA actively promotes the shaping of corporate co-determination. ­digital energy supply based on renewable sources. This can conIn Germany, the foundations for this are regulated by the Works tribute to countries’ national and international obligations to reduce Council Constitution Act and elsewhere. greenhouse gas emissions and to increase climate protection. SMA supports the EU initiative to develop a uniform eco-design Responsibility Along the Entire Supply Chain – 90% directive and eco-labeling for PV systems. In 2018, our experts of Goods Volume Tested for Sustainability once again contributed to the success of several projects and publications with their technological expertise. This included a project [GRI 102–9, 308–1, 2, 414–1, 2] In 2018, SMA purchased by the German Federal Environment Agency in which reliable data goods of approximately €450 million from around 450 suppliers on the life cycle assessment of PV systems were calculated with in Europe, North and South America and the Asia-Pacific region. SMA’s help. The results are to be published in the spring. In the Based on our comprehensive analyses of the environmental and “energy payback time,” for example, they will convincingly demonsocietal impact of our products, we defined the supply chain as a strate that the energy consumption and CO2 emissions in the prokey point of focus. In 2017, we began the evaluation of our entire duction phase are amortized in a very short space of time. supply chain’s performance in terms of sustainability. Supplier participation in the evaluation is mandatory. We have already evaluSMA does not make any donations to political parties or to related ated suppliers corresponding to around 90% of our goods volume. or associated organizations or individuals. This has revealed a mostly positive picture. The evaluation criteria, which we will refine further in the coming year, include guaranteed compliance with the universal SMA standards such as respect for Transparent Stakeholder Dialogue – Providing Information human rights, freedom of association, avoidance of child labor and Openly and Responding to Suggestions forced labor, and the use of a sustainable, climate-friendly energy supply. They will be recorded in a “Supplier Sustainability GuideAs a globally operating company, we are subject to a wide variety line,” which alongside our Supplier Code, will formulate clear of political changes and decisions that affect our business activities. goals for our suppliers. To safeguard the future of SMA, it is important for us to communicate our company’s interests in open dialogue with governments, industry associations and organizations as well as societal stakeSocial Commitment – Paving the Way for a Sustainable, holders. We also respond to our stakeholders’ suggestions and Reliable and Cost-Effective Energy Supply interests with the same openness, valuing them as reliable partners. [GRI 102–13] For SMA, supporting and guiding social developWe place high value on ongoing, transparent dialogue with importment for a sustainable future is a matter of course. Over the past ant interest groups. We report important events within the company years, we have thus supported projects, organizations and initiain ad hoc messages, press releases, on our website and social tives from different areas – on a regional and national level as well media channels. By sharing information on all relevant issues, we as in newly industrialized and developing countries. The traditional ensure that we are always acting in the interests of our core stakeChristmas donation by SMA employees is used to support regional holders. Our stakeholder analysis, performed in 2017, enabled us projects and initiatives via the fund-raising organization A.M.S. In to explore in more detail the key issues of a sustainable company 2018, SMA employees donated around €11,100. As in the previand sustainable products. We hope that the international customer ous years, the sum was doubled by the Managing Board. satisfaction analysis prepared in 2018 will lead to suggestions for further activities in 2019. We will continue this open and trans­ We are also focusing on our commitment to numerous networks, parent dialogue with key interest groups in the future. partnerships and initiatives that play a significant role in further development of photovoltaics, climate protection and the digitalization of the energy supply. For example, SMA is represented on the managing boards of the German Solar Industry Association (Bundesverband Solarwirtschaft) and the European industry SMA Solar Technology AG // Annual Report 2018 Fiscal Year 2018 – Combined Management Report 45 FISCAL YEAR 2018 GENERAL ECONOMIC CONDITIONS Economic Conditions in the Sector AND ECONOMIC CONDITIONS IN THE Photovoltaics have proven to be increasingly competitive in recent SECTOR years. In a growing number of regions around the world, solar power is now more cost-efficient than conventionally generated electricity. For example, large-scale solar projects in the Middle East are already generating solar power at less than $0.03 per General Economic Conditions kWh. This points the way to an environment in which the industry will grow in the medium and long term even without ­subsidization. According to the International Monetary Fund (IMF), global ecoIn the wake of the transformation of global energy supply strucnomic growth came to 3.7% in 2018 and was thus slightly weaker tures, current and future objectives include intelligently linking difthan in the previous year (2017: 3.8%). In some major national ferent technologies and providing intermediate storage solutions economies, particularly in Europe and Asia, economic activity for generated energy, thereby ensuring a reliable and cost-effective lost further momentum already in the third quarter of 2018. In the electricity supply based on renewable energies. fourth quarter, industrial production declined in all regions outside the U.S. Growth in international trade was considerably below the previous year’s level. GLOBAL PV MARKET ALMOST AT PREVIOUS YEAR’S LEVEL According to the IMF, economic output in industrialized countries Based on newly installed power of approximately 102 GW (2017: grew by 2.3% in the reporting period, thus a bit more slowly than approx. 103 GW), the global photovoltaic market was almost in the previous year (2017: 2.4%). This was primarily the result at the previous year’s level according to SMA’s estimates (these of weaker development in the eurozone. In Germany, economic installation figures do not include retrofitting of existing PV systems growth was down one percentage point year on year at 1.5% with new inverters or battery inverter technology). SMA estimates in 2018 due to weak domestic and foreign demand and ­difficulties that global PV inverter technology sales, including inverter retrofitwith the transition to new emissions testing procedures in the autoting and battery inverter technology, fell by approximately 8% to motive industry. Domestic demand in Italy also remained weak. €4.9 billion in the reporting period (2017: €5.3 billion). In France, continuing protests by the “yellow vests” impacted the economy in the last few months of the year. By contrast, the The regional distribution of demand changed only slightly in U.S. posted an additional increase in economic growth to 2.9% the reporting period. In the photovoltaic markets in Europe, the (2017: 2.2%). ­Middle East and Africa (EMEA), inverter technology sales were on a par with the previous year at approximately €1.3 billion In developing and newly industrialized countries, economic ­output (2017: €1.3 billion). The share of the EMEA region in global sales grew by 4.6% in 2018 (2017: 4.7%) according to the IMF. These rose slightly to around 26% (2017: 24%). System technology for national economies faced difficult external conditions in the final storage applications and the retrofitting of existing PV systems months of the year, such as increasing global trade tensions, ­rising accounted for a significant part of sales in the EMEA region. The U.S. interest rates, appreciation of the U.S. dollar, outflows of Americas region recorded a decline in sales to approximately ­capital and volatile oil prices. The Chinese economy slowed slightly €900 million, particularly due to a weaker U.S. market in euros, to 6.6% (2017: 6.9%). By contrast, the Indian economy gained and accounted for 19% of global sales (2017: €1.0 billion; 19%). ­further momentum with growth of 7.3% (2017: 6.7%). In China, around 44 GW of new PV power was installed in 2018 according to the National Energy Administration (NEA). This corresponds to a decline in installation volume of more than 17% year on year. As a result of a low local price level, measured in euro, China represented approximately 25% of global sales at around €1.2 billion in 2018 (2017: €1.5 billion; 28%). The Asia-Pacific photovoltaic markets (excluding China) accounted for around 30% of the global market with sales of around €1.5 billion, which were thus on a par with the previous year (2017: €1.5 billion; 29%). Annual Report 2018 // SMA Solar Technology AG 46 Combined Management Report – Fiscal Year 2018 EMEA: SIGNIFICANT GROWTH IN GERMANY In India, there are various incentive programs and a fundamental effort on the part of the government to supply the entire country In the EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) region, newly with renewable power. By 2022, 100 GW of PV power is to be installed PV power increased significantly to 17 GW (2017: installed in India – four times the accumulated power installed to 13 GW). At around 3 GW (2017: 1.8 GW), Germany was again date. PV systems with a total capacity of approximately 8 GW the most significant market in Europe in terms of newly registered were newly installed in India in 2018, installation was therefore at PV power in the period under review. In the segment of medithe previous year’s level. Around 90% of the new installations were um-sized PV systems for commercial applications, new installations large-scale projects. Medium-sized commercial and small private here doubled in comparison to the previous year. systems are still not highly relevant in India. Development in other European countries was mixed. While Greece saw only few new installations and the United Kingdom’s RESULTS OF OPERATIONS significance declined as a result of radical subsidy cuts, installations in Benelux, France, Italy and Spain increased. Sales and Earnings NON-EUROPEAN MARKETS: INSTALLATION SALES AND EARNINGS DOWN SIGNIFICANTLY IN THE U.S. STAGNATES YEAR ON YEAR According to estimates by the SMA Managing Board, around In fiscal year 2018, the SMA Group sold PV inverters with accu11 GW of new PV power was installed in the U.S. in 2018, as in mulated power of 8,449 MW, which was roughly on a par with the previous year. The effects of the price decline caused by the the previous year (2017: 8,538 MW). The SMA Group’s sales internationalization of Chinese PV manufacturers were particularly declined by 14.6% to €760.9 million (2017: €891.0 million). The noticeable in this market, which is dominated by large-scale PV lower level of sales is attributable primarily to the abrupt decline projects. PV inverter sales fell by 19% from around €800 million in the PV market in China, as a result of which Chinese providers to approximately €650 million. At the same time, investments in increasingly advanced into international markets and caused enormajor projects were delayed in anticipation of additional price mous price pressure there. decreases – and also to compensate for the import duties imposed by the U.S. government at the start of 2018 on PV cells and modSMA is well positioned internationally and generates contributions ules produced abroad. to sales in all relevant regions. In the reporting period, the company generated 47.7% of external sales in European countries, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA), 33.2% in the Asia-Pacific (APAC) INDIA, JAPAN AND CHINA DOMINATE THE MARKET IN ASIA region and 19.1% in the North and South American (Americas) region calculated before sales deductions (2017: 44.2% EMEA, According to estimates, inverter technology investments in Japan 32.4% APAC, 23.4% Americas). Due to the generally high price amounted to approximately €730 million in the reporting period. pressure, SMA’s gross sales also decreased in all regions. The Commercial systems and large-scale PV power plants were driving worst affected region was the Americas, where gross sales were segments here. According to SMA estimates, PV systems with an down 29.9% year on year at €148.8 million (2017: €212.4 miloutput totaling around 8 GW were connected to the utility grid lion). This is attributable, in particular, to the U.S. market, which is in Japan in 2018. dominated by large-scale solar projects. The price pressure was extremely evident here. In addition, investments in large-scale projThe Chinese PV market declined significantly year on year in the ects were postponed in anticipation of further price declines. The reporting period. According to the National Energy Administration main ­markets for SMA in the fiscal year were again Germany, the (NEA), around 44 GW of new PV power was installed in China in U.S. and Australia. 2018 (2017: 53 GW). The market was dominated by large-scale PV power plants. The Chinese photovoltaic market continues to be dominated by tendering procedures that lack transparency. Significant market shares are only awarded to Chinese providers, some of which are state-owned. SMA Solar Technology AG // Annual Report 2018 'JTDBM:FBS࣌$POTPMJEBUFE.BOBHFNFOU3FQPSU Fiscal Year 2018 – Combined Management Report  47 5IF6UJMJUZTFHNFOUBHBJONBEFUIFMBSHFTUDPOUSJCVUJPOUPTBMFTJO The Utility segment again made the largest contribution to sales in 4 -&4 /%&#*5 SALES AND EBIT  BDDPVOUJOHGPS 2018, accounting for 35.0% (2017: 32.4%).5IF$PNNFSDJBMTFH The Commercial segJOवNJMMJPO NFOUHFOFSBUFEPGUIF4. (SPVQ࣒TTBMFT ment generated 33.1% of the SMA Group’s sales, XIJMFUIF3FTJ while the ResiEFOUJBMTFHNFOUDPOUSJCVUFEBOEUIF4UPSBHFTFHNFOU dential segment contributed 23.9% and the Storage segment 8.0% 3FTJEFOUJBM (2017: 26.2% Residential, $PNNFSDJBM 30.5% Commercial, 4UPSBHF 10.9% Storage).   TPG%FDFNCFS As of December 31,  2018, 4. IBEBOPSEFSCBDLMPHPG SMA had an order backlog of  वNJMMJPO €578.0 %FDFNCFS million (December 2017: €651.4 million).0GUIJT 31, वNJMMJPO Of this   BNPVOU वNJMMJPOJTBUUSJCVUBCMFUPQSPEVDUCVTJOFTT5IJT amount, €175.4 million is attributable to product business. This EFDMJOFSFTVMUTGSPNUIFSFEVDFEEFMJWFSZUJNFTGPS4. JOWFSU 29% decline results from the reduced delivery times for SMA invertFSTPOUIFPOFIBOE ers on the one hand, BTUIFTIPSUBHFPGDPNQPOFOUTIBTOPXCFFO as the shortage of components has now been PWFSDPNF0OUIFPUIFS overcome. On the other, JOWFTUNFOUTJO17QSPKFDUTXFSFQPTUQPOFE investments in PV projects were postponed JOUIFTFDPOEIBMGPGUIFZFBSJOBOUJDJQBUJPOPGGVSUIFSEFDMJOFT in the second half of the year in anticipation of further declines in JOQSJDFT UUIFCFHJOOJOHPG prices. At the end of 2018, order volumes PSEFSWPMVNFTJOEJDBUFUIBU indicate that ­project    QSPKFDUEFWFMPQFSTBOEJOWFTUPST࣒IFTJUBUJPOUPJOWFTUJTTMPXMZBCBU developers’ and investors’ hesitation to invest is slowly abating. JOH TPG%FDFNCFS As of December 31, 2018,  UIFNPTUTJHOJ꽌 the most significantDBOUTIBSFPGUIF share of the order    PSEFSCBDLMPH backlog (€402.6 million) is still JTTUJMMBUUSJCVUBCMFUPUIFTFSWJDF वNJMMJPO attributable to the service business. ࣌ ࣌ CVTJOFTT.PTUPGUIJTTIBSFXJMMCFJNQMFNFOUFEPWFSUIFOFYU꽌 ࣌ Most of this share will be implemented over the next five to ten WF ࣌ UPUFOZFBST years.      *OUIF꽌 In TDBMZFBS the 2018 fiscal year, FBSOJOHTCFGPSFJOUFSFTU earnings before interest, UBYFT taxes, EFQSF depre  4BMFT DJBUJPOBOEBNPSUJ[BUJPO ciation &#*5% ESPQQFEUP࣌वNJMMJPO and amortization (EBITDA) dropped to –€69.1 million   &#*5 &#*5% NBSHJO࣌वNJMMJPO (EBITDA margin: –9.1%; 2017: €97.3 million; 10.9%).&#*5XBT EBIT was  &#*5NBSHJOJOPGTBMF ࣌वNJMMJPO –€151.7 वNJMMJPO million (2017: €44.1 million).5IJTFRVBUFTUPBO&#*5 This equates to an EBIT NBSHJOPG࣌ margin of –19.9% (2017: 4.9%).&BSOJOHTXFSFTJHOJ꽌 DBOUMZ Earnings were significantly JNQBDUFECZPOFUJNFJUFNT/FUJODPNFBNPVOUFEUP࣌वNJM impacted by one-time items amounting to €116 million. Net income MJPO वNJMMJPO amounted to –€175.5 million &BSOJOHTQFSTIBSFBNPVOUFEUP (2017: €30.1 million). Earnings per 4BMFTBOE&BSOJOHTQFS4FHNFOU Sales and Earnings per Segment ࣌व share व amounted  (2017: €0.87). to –€5.06 3&4*%&/5* -4&(.&/5%&$-*/&*/4 -&4/&( 5*7&-: RESIDENTIAL SEGMENT: ONE-TIME ITEMS AND DECLINE IN *.1 $54& 3/*/(4 SALES NEGATIVELY I­MPACT EARNINGS *OUIF3FTJEFOUJBMTFHNFOU In the Residential segment, 4. DBUFSTUPHMPCBMNBSLFUTGPSTNBMM SMA caters to global markets for small 17TZTUFNTXJUIBOEXJUIPVUDPOOFDUJPOUPBTNBSUIPNFTPMVUJPO PV systems with and without connection to a smart home solution. 5IFQPSUGPMJP The portfolio, XIJDIJODMVEFTUIF4. BOE;FWFSTPMBSCSBOET which includes the SMA and Zeversolar brands,  DPNQSJTFTTNBSUNPEVMFUFDIOPMPHZ comprises smart module technology, TJOHMFBOEUISFFQIBTFTUSJOH singleand three-phase JOWFSUFSTJOUIFMPXFSPVUQVUSBOHFVQUPL8 string inverters in the lower output range up to 12 JOUFHSBUFETFS kW, integrated WJDFT FOFSHZNBOBHFNFOUTPMVUJPOT services, energy management solutions, TUPSBHFTZTUFNT storage systems,DPNNVOJ commuDBUJPOQSPEVDUTBOEBDDFTTPSJFT4. ࣒T3FTJEFOUJBMTFHNFOUBMTP nication products and accessories. SMA’s Residential segment PGGFSTTFSWJDFT also TVDIBTFYUFOEFEXBSSBOUJFT offers services, such as extended warranties, TQBSFQBSUTBOENPE spare parts and FSOJ[BUJPOPG17TZTUFNTUPFOIBODFQFSGPSNBODF8JUIUIJTQPSU modernization of PV systems (Repowering) to enhance perforGPMJPPGQSPEVDUTBOETFSWJDFT mance. 4. QSPWJEFTPQUJNBMTPMVUJPOTGPS With this portfolio of products and services, SMA provides QSJWBUF17TZTUFNTJOBMMNBKPSQIPUPWPMUBJDNBSLFUTXPSMEXJEF solutions for private PV systems in all major photovoltaic markets worldwide. OOVBM3FQPSU Annual Report 2018 //4. 4PMBS5FDIOPMPHZ ( SMA Solar Technology AG 48 Combined Management Report – Fiscal Year 2018 In 2018, external sales in the Residential segment decreased by EBIT decreased to –€11.5 million (2017: €0.5 million) mainly due 22.2% year on year to €181.5 million (2017: €233.3 million). to high price pressure. It includes negative one-time items amountThis decline is attributable mainly to increased price pressure in ing to €27 million from impairment on inventories due to product APAC and EMEA. Its share of the SMA Group’s total sales was changes and extraordinary impairment losses on capitalized devel23.9% (2017: 26.2%). The EMEA region accounted for 65.5% opment costs. These were mostly offset by the positive one-time item (2017: 60.7%) of the Residential segment’s gross sales, the APAC from the change in estimates and recalculation of general warranty region for 18.3% (2017: 28.1%) and the Americas region for obligations based on the failure rates for SMA inverters amounting 16.2% (2017: 11.2%). to €24 million. In relation to external sales, the EBIT margin was –4.6% (2017: 0.2%). EBIT in the Residential segment amounted to –€16.6 million (2017: €2.8 million), primarily due to the decline in sales. This included negative one-time items amounting to €26 million from impairment UTILITY SEGMENT: EARNINGS IMPACTED BY PRICE on inventories due to product changes, provisions for onerous conPRESSURE AND ONE-TIME ITEMS tracts on products of Tigo Energy, Inc., a provision for an individual warranty-related item and extraordinary impairment losses on capiThe Utility segment focuses on international PV power plant markets talized development costs. These were mostly offset by the positive with its powerful string inverters in the Sunny Highpower product one-time item from the change in estimates and recalculation of family and the central inverters in the Sunny Central product family. general warranty obligations based on the failure rates for SMA The outputs of inverters in this segment range from 150 kW to the inverters amounting to €17 million. In relation to external sales, the megawatts. In addition, the SMA portfolio in the Utility segment EBIT margin was –9.1% (2017: 1.2%). covers complete solutions comprising central inverters with their grid service and monitoring functions as well as all mediumand high-voltage technology and accessories. The portfolio is suppleCOMMERCIAL SEGMENT: PRICE PRESSURE BURDENS RESULT mented by services, such as for the modernization and functional enhancement of PV power plants (Repowering), and operation and In the Commercial segment, the focus is on global markets for maintenance services (O&M business). medium-sized PV systems with and without an energy management solution. Here SMA offers solutions based on the three-phase External sales in the Utility segment fell by 7.9% to €266.3 milSunny Tripower inverters with outputs of more than 12 kW as well lion in 2018 (2017: €289.2 million) as a result of the significant as on inverters from the Sunny Highpower and Solid-Q product decline in prices and postponement of projects in anticipation of families. The Sunny Tripower inverters are compatible with the additional decreases in prices for PV modules and inverters due to smart module technology from Tigo Energy, Inc. Holistic energy the excess capacity in China among other things. At 35.0%, the management solutions for medium-sized PV systems based on the Utility segment again accounted for the largest share of the SMA ennexOS platform, medium-voltage technology and other accessoGroup’s total sales (2017: 32.4%). The APAC region accounted ries as well as services up to and including system modernization for 43.3% (2017: 42.1%) of the Utility segment’s gross sales, the and operational management of commercial PV systems (O&M EMEA region for 30.1% (2017: 25.1%) and the Americas region business) round off SMA’s offering. for 26.6% (2017: 32.8%). External sales in the Commercial segment fell short of the previous EBIT in the Utility segment deteriorated to –€63.6 million (2017: year’s level at €251.9 million (2017: €271.4 million) due to con€25.6 million) as a result of poor price quality in individual markets tinued price pressure, a shortage of components that has now been and one-time items. It includes negative one-time items amounting overcome, and declining markets in the U.S. and Japan. Its share to €40 million from individual warranty-related items, extraordinary of the SMA Group’s total sales was 33.1% (2017: 30.5%). 51.1% impairment losses on capitalized development costs and from the of gross sales were attributable to the EMEA region, 37.6% to the change in estimates and recalculation of general warranty obliAPAC region, and 11.3% to the Americas region (2017: 45.9% gations based on the failure rates for SMA inverters. In relation to EMEA, 35.5% APAC, 18.6% Americas). external sales, the EBIT margin was –23.9% (2017: 8.9%). SMA Solar Technology AG // Annual Report 2018 Fiscal Year 2018 – Combined Management Report 49 STORAGE SEGMENT: SALES DECLINE AND ONE-TIME ITEMS Sales by Segments1 RESPONSIBLE FOR NEGATIVE EARNINGS in % The Storage segment comprises SMA Sunbelt Energy and the Off-Grid & Storage business unit, which predominantly serve the global battery storage market. In addition to system technology Storage: 8.0% (10.9%) Residential: for integration of battery-storage systems for all system sizes, the 23.9% (26.2%) focus here is on implementing photovoltaic diesel hybrid systems in sunbelt areas around the world and large-scale storage projects Digital Energy: in select markets. 0.0% (0.0%) In 2018, external sales in the Storage segment decreased by 37.1% year on year to €61.1 million (2017: €97.1 million). This Utility: decline is attributable mainly to postponed implementation of large35.0% (32.4%) scale projects in the storage business and to supply bottlenecks Commercial: 33.1% (30.5%) at battery manufacturers. Its share of the SMA Group’s total sales was 8.0% (2017: 10.9%). The EMEA region made up 55.5% (2017: 49.3%) of gross sales, the Americas region 29.0% (2017: 41.6%) and the APAC region 15.5% (2017: 9.1%). 1 Gross sales before sales deductions (previous year’s figures in parentheses) As a result of the sales decline and one-time items, EBIT in the ­Storage segment amounted to –€5.6 million (2017: €10.0 million). It includes negative one-time items amounting to €6 million Sales by Regions1 from extraordinary impairment losses on capitalized developin % ment costs and from the change in estimates and recalculation of general warranty obligations based on the failure rate for SMA inverters. In relation to external sales, the EBIT margin was –9.2% (2017: 10.3%). APAC: EMEA: 33.2% (32.4%) 47.7% (44.2%) NEW BUSINESS AREAS BEING DEVELOPED The Digital Energy segment comprises the subsidiaries coneva and emerce. coneva develops digital energy services for private and business customers. emerce focuses on online sales channels for select markets. This segment did not yet make a significant contribuAmericas: tion to sales and earnings in fiscal year 2018. 19.1% (23.4%) 1 Gross sales before sales deductions (previous year’s figures in parentheses) Annual Report 2018 // SMA Solar Technology AG 50 Combined Management Report – Fiscal Year 2018 Development of Significant Income estimates and recalculation of general warranty obligations and the deferred costs for individual warranty-related items in the ResStatement Items idential and Utility segments as well as increased logistics costs, including for air cargo to reduce delivery times, as a result of the PRICE DECLINE AND ONE-TIME ITEMS BURDEN shortage of components that has now been overcome. GROSS MARGIN Selling expenses rose to €52.8 million in 2018 (2017: €48.2 milAt €688.9 million, the cost of sales was down only slightly on the lion). This increase was mainly a result of an expansion of the sales previous year (2017: €691.5 million). It thus decreased to a much organization in the U.S., increased global sales activities and the lesser extent than sales. This is mainly the result of the price decline recognition of provisions for severance payments to employees. in all segments and to one-time items. The gross margin includes The cost of sales ratio increased to 6.9% in the reporting period one-time items amounting to €63 million from impairment on inven(2017: 5.4%). This was mainly due to the decline in sales. tories due to product changes, provisions for onerous contracts on products of Tigo Energy, Inc., provisions for individual warrantyIn the past fiscal year, research and development expenses, not related items, extraordinary impairment losses on capitalized develincluding capitalized development costs, amounted to €68.3 milopment costs and a positive one-time item from the change in estilion (2017: €64.6 million). The research and development cost mates and recalculation of general warranty ­obligations based on ratio amounted to 11.4% in 2018 (2017: 9.3%). Total research the failure rates for SMA inverters. It therefore decreased to 9.5% and development expenses, including capitalized development (2017: 22.4%). costs, increased to €87.1 million (2017: €83.0 million) as a result of the development of new units in the Digital Energy segment and Personnel expenses included in cost of sales increased year on the uptick in strategically important development projects for new year to €118.4 million (2017: €111.0 million). This increase is products. Development costs were capitalized in the amount of ­primarily due to the general increase in pay realized in 2018 €18.8 million in the reporting period (2017: €18.4 million). and to provisions for severance payments in connection with the planned staff reduction in 2019. As a result of the decline in sales General administrative expenses totaled €55.2 million in 2018 and increased inventories, material costs decreased to €449.7 mil(2017: €54.1 million). This increase was due to the recognition of lion (2017: €490.7 million), despite impairment on inventories due provisions for severance payments to employees in connection with to product changes. SMA is continuously working on its product the planned staff reduction in 2019. Also resulting from the decline portfolio in all segments to tackle price pressure by optimizing the in sales, the ratio of administrative expenses increased to 7.3% cost of existing products and introducing new and less expensive (2017: 6.1%). products. In 2018, the balance of other operating income and expenses Depreciation and amortization included in the cost of sales amounted to –€47.5 million (2017: €11.4 million). In addition amounted to €73.7 million in 2018 (2017: €45.0 million). This to the effects of foreign currency valuation, this includes one-time includes scheduled depreciation on capitalized development costs items amounting to €44 million due to the planned sale of the Chiof €21.4 million (2017: €18.2 million) and unscheduled deprenese companies and impairment on trade receivables and on input ciation amounting to €29.6 million. Other costs slightly increased tax reimbursement claims in foreign countries. The previous year’s by 4.9% year on year to €47.0 million (2017: €44.8 million). This figure for this item includes proceeds from the disposal of the SMA item includes the positive effect on earnings from the change in Railway division among other things. SMA Solar Technology AG // Annual Report 2018 Fiscal Year 2018 – Combined Management Report 51 'JTDBM:FBS࣌$POTPMJEBUFE.BOBHFNFOU3FQPSU  'JTDBM:FBS࣌$POTPMJEBUFE.BOBHFNFOU3FQPSU  Cost of Sales Selling Expenses $PTUPG4BMFT 4FMMJOH&YQFOTFT $PTUPG4BMFT 4FMMJOH&YQFOTFT JOवNJMMJPO JOवNJMMJPO JOवNJMMJPO JOवNJMMJPO                                                              3BUJPJOPGTBMFT  3BUJPJOPGTBMFT  3BUJPJOPGTBMFT  3BUJPJOPGTBMFT 3FTFBSDIBOE%FWFMPQNFOU&YQFOTFT Research and Development Expenses ENJOJTUSBUJWF&YQFOTFT Administrative Expenses 3FTFBSDIBOE%FWFMPQNFOU&YQFOTFT ENJOJTUSBUJWF&YQFOTFT JOवNJMMJPO JOवNJMMJPO JOवNJMMJPO JOवNJMMJPO                                                                         3FTFBSDIBOEEFWFMPQNFOUFYQFOTFT  3BUJPJOPGTBMFT   3FTFBSDIBOEEFWFMPQNFOUFYQFOTFT  3BUJPJOPGTBMFT PGXIJDIDBQJUBMJ[FEEFWFMPQNFOUQSPKFDUT  3BUJPJOPGTBMFT PGXIJDIDBQJUBMJ[FEEFWFMPQNFOUQSPKFDUT  3BUJPJOPGTBMFT Annual Report 2018 // SMA Solar Technology AG OOVBM3FQPSU4. 4PMBS5FDIOPMPHZ ( OOVBM3FQPSU4. 4PMBS5FDIOPMPHZ ( 52 Combined Management Report – Fiscal Year 2018 FINANCIAL AND TAX RESULT We systematically recognize market risks – above all currency risks – that might jeopardize the operating results and preclude The financial result deteriorated to –€14.7 million in 2018 (2017: such risks through hedging operations, provided this is economi–€0.3 million). In addition to other financial income and expenses, cally expedient. this includes the complete write-off of the investment in Tigo Energy, Inc. amounting to €11.5 million. This was due to the company’s poor medium-term chances of success in the highly competitive marFinancing Analysis ket for smart module technology. In 2016, SMA agreed upon a long-term financing of €100 million Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization with three domestic banks. At the end of 2018, only a small por(EBITDA) of –€69.1 million resulted in an EBITDA margin of –9.1% tion of the credit line was utilized in the form of guarantee credits. (2017: €97.3 million; 10.9%). In total, financial liabilities fell by €0.4 million from €20.8 million The tax result was impacted by depreciation on the deferred tax as of the end of 2017 to €20.4 million as of the end of 2018. The assets recognized for loss carryforwards of SMA Solar Technology reduction in financial liabilities is mainly the result of the scheduled AG amounting to €13.2 million. repayment of loans to banks. The return on equity after taxes (net income in relation to averMost of the provisions set aside by the SMA Group are for age total assets in the reporting period) came to –33.9% in the ­warranty obligations from our various product families. As of reporting year (2017: 5.0%), the return on assets after taxes the end of 2018, the equity ratio was 42.9% (December 31, was –15.9% (2017: 2.5%). 2017: 50.3%). Multi-Period Overview of Results of Operations Liquidity Analysis NET CASH AT HIGH LEVEL AT €306 MILLION in % 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 In the 2018 fiscal year, gross cash flow amounted to –€39.4 milEBIT margin –19.9 4.9 6.8 4.4 –20.5 lion (2017: €84.1 million). It reflects the operating income prior EBITDA margin –9.1 10.9 14.9 12.3 –7.3 to commitment of funds. EBT margin (return on sales) –21.9 4.9 6.2 3.9 –20.8 In the reporting year, net cash flow from operating activities of Return on equity after taxes –33.9 5.0 5.1 2.5 –28.1 ­continuing operations was –€54.3 million (2017: €116.8 million). Return on assets (after taxes) –15.9 2.5 2.5 1.2 –14.7 Inventories increased by 17.5% to €193.8 million (2017: €165.0 million). The decrease in trade payables (–€19.6 million), decrease in trade receivables (–€51,6 million) and increase in inventories (€28.8 million) resulted in an increase in net working FINANCIAL POSITION capital by €9.5 million to €177.4 million (2017: €167.9 million). The net working capital ratio in relation to sales over the past 12 months rose to 23.3% (December 31, 2017: 18.8%) and was thus slightly above the range of 19% to 23% targeted by the Principles and Objectives of management. Financial Management Net cash flow from investing activities of continuing operations Inflows of funds from operative business activities constitute the amounted to €7.4 million after –€81.2 million in the previous year. key source of financing. Cash holdings are managed and invested The majority of this amount was attributable to cash inflows and centrally by Global Treasury. The decision is based not only on outflows from financial investments totaling €46.8 million (2017: returns but also the credit rating of the bank partner. In the case –€66.0 million). The outflow of funds for investments in fixed assets of supplier credits granted, counterparty risk is monitored continuand intangible assets amounted to €40.3 million in the reporting ously. The decision is primarily based on the customer’s payment period (2017: €33.2 million). At €18.8 million (2017: €18.4 milpractices and financial circumstances. To cover potential payment lion), capitalized development costs accounted for a large part of defaults, SMA has also taken out commercial credit insurance. these investments. SMA Solar Technology AG // Annual Report 2018 Fiscal Year 2018 – Combined Management Report 53 As of December 31, 2018, cash and cash equivalents amounting Investments in intangible assets amounted to €20.1 million (2017: to €142.6 million (December 31, 2017: €234.9 million) included €19.8 million). These largely related to capitalized development cash on hand, bank balances and short-term deposits with an origcosts. Amortization of intangible assets amounted to €53.5 milinal term to maturity of less than three months. With time deposits lion and was thus clearly above the previous year’s figure of that have a term to maturity of more than three months, fixed-inter€22.6 million. est-bearing securities, liquid assets pledged as collateral and after deducting interest-bearing financial liabilities, this resulted in net cash of €305.5 million (December 31, 2017: €449.7 million). This Investments Compared to Depreciation and does not include the cash and cash equivalents attributable to the Net Cash Flow From Operating Activities Chinese companies held for sale. in € million 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Multi-Period Overview of SMA Group Financial Position Net cash flow from operating activities –54.3 116.8 147.5 102.7 –27.6 in € million 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Capital expenditure 1 40.3 33.2 29.0 50.6 75.5 Depreciation and ­amortization 2 82.6 53.2 76.7 79.0 106.5 Shareholders’ equity 424.5 611.5 585.1 570.2 552.0 Equity ratio in % 42.9 50.3 48.3 49.1 46.8 1 See Notes, sections 9 and 10, page 97 et seq. Non-current liabilities 244.5 285.2 292.9 281.2 284.0 2 Depreciation in 2018 and 2017 includes depreciation for “investment property” Current liabilities 320.3 319.5 332.8 309.1 344.3 amounting to €0.7 million (2017: €0.7 million). Share of non-current provisions in total assets in % 6.6 7.5 7.4 7.5 7.4 Financial liabilities 20.4 20.8 40.4 46.9 69.3 NET ASSETS Net cash 305.5 449.7 362.0 285.6 225.4 Net working capital 177.4 167.9 203.2 200.0 235.6 Net cash flow from ­operating activities –54.3 116.8 1 147.5 1 102.7 –27.6 SMA Has a Solid Equity Ratio of 42.9% Net cash flow from ­investing activities 7.4 –81.2 1 –107.9 –64.0 24.7 Total assets went down by 18.7% to €989.3 million as of DecemNet cash flow from ber 31, 2018 (December 31, 2017: €1,216.2 million). At ­financing activities –14.5 –11.5 1 –24.6 –23.2 –10.0 €283.4 million, non-current assets were below the level observed at the end of 2017 (December 31, 2017: €358.3 million). 1 From continuing operations Net working capital increased to €177.4 million (December 31, 2017: €167.9 million), corresponding to 23.3% of sales over the Investment Analysis past 12 months. Trade receivables decreased by 32.3% compared to December 31, 2017, to €108.4 million as of the end of the In the 2018 fiscal year, investments in fixed assets and intangible fiscal year (December 31, 2017: €160.0 million). Days sales outassets amounted to €40.3 million and were thus clearly above the standing were slightly lower than in the previous year at 64.4 days previous year’s figure of €33.2 million. This equates to an invest(December 31, 2017: 66.6 days). Inventories increased by 17.5% ment ratio in relation to sales of 5.3% compared with 3.7% in the to €193.8 million (December 31, 2017: €165.0 million). Trade previous year. payables fell by €19.6 million to €110.9 million (December 31, 2017: €130.4 million). At 11.2%, the share of trade credit in total €20.2 million was invested in fixed assets (2017: €13.4 million), assets was above the level of the previous year (December 31, primarily for advanced payments for machinery and equipment. 2017: 10.7%). The investment ratio for fixed assets was 2.7% in the fiscal year (2017: 1.5%). Scheduled depreciation of fixed assets decreased As a result of the high net loss in 2018, the Group’s equity capital to €28.4 million (2017: €30.6 million). base decreased by €187.0 million to €424.5 million (December 31, 2017: €611.5 million). With an equity ratio of 42.9%, SMA still has a solid equity capital base. Annual Report 2018 // SMA Solar Technology AG 54 Combined Management Report – Fiscal Year 2018 Importance of Off-Balance Sheet The SMA AG Annual Financial Statement is prepared according to German Commercial Law (HGB). The Consolidated ­Financial Financing Instruments Statements follow International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). This leads to differences between accounting and ­valuation The SMA Group uses its operating and office equipment under ­methods. These mainly relate to intangible assets, inventory leases. Future obligations under tenancy and lease agreements are measurement, provisions, financial instruments, accrual items shown in the Notes in section 25, “Obligations Under Leases and and deferred taxes. Other Financial Obligations”. SMA is not involved in any other off-balance sheet transactions that Results of Operations might have a significant impact on its financial position, results of operations, investment expenditure, net assets or capital expendiSMA Solar Technology AG Income Statements in Accordance ture – neither currently nor in the future. With HGB for the Period From January 1 to December 31, 2018 in €’000 2018 2017 Multi-Period Overview of Net Assets Sales 682,911 747,745 in € million 2018 2017 2016 1 2015 2014 Increase or decrease in finished goods and work in progress 6,914 7,435 Goodwill, intangible 689,825 755,180 assets and fixed assets 235.2 283.5 300.7 385.9 413.1 Other own work capitalized 3,823 2,876 Financial assets and Other operating income 72,544 96,953 long-term securities (incl. deposits with a total term Material expenses 466,167 453,380 to maturity of more than Personnel expenses 148,309 133,271 three months) 177.5 225.4 159.4 97.7 82.5 Depreciation and amortization of intangible Cash and cash equivaand fixed assets 29,355 31,024 lents (incl. deposits with a total term to maturity of Other operating expenses 239,623 190,023 less than three months) 142.6 234.9 216.1 200.2 184.0 Financial result –94,324 15,401 Taxes on income –398 –781 1 All figures for 2016 from continuing operations Income after taxes –211,188 63,493 Other taxes –49 103 Net loss (2017: annual net income) –211,139 63,390 SMA SOLAR TECHNOLOGY AG Accumulated income/losses brought forward 394,864 343,619 (NOTES BASED ON THE GERMAN Profit available for distribution 183,725 407,009 ­COMMERCIAL CODE HGB) In addition to reporting on the SMA Group, business development of SMA Solar Technology AG (SMA AG) is outlined below. SMA AG generated sales of €682.9 million in the 2018 fiscal year (2017: €747.7 million). This equates to a decrease in sales of SMA AG is the parent company of the SMA Group and has its 8.7% compared with the previous year. However, sold PV inverter headquarters in Niestetal, Germany. Its primary business operaoutput rose by 12.2% in the same period to 8.3 GW (2017: tions include the development, production and sale of PV ­inverters 7.4 GW). Of this, 3.2 GW (2017: 2.2 GW) were attributable to as well as monitoring and energy management systems for PV sysassociated companies. The fact that sales were lower despite the tems. Another area of business is providing operation and mainteincrease in inverter output sold is attributable to significant price nance service (O&M business) as well as other services. In addition pressure in all segments and regions. to its own operative business, SMA AG also functions as a holding company for the SMA Group. All key management mechanisms Other operating income amounted to €72.5 million (2017: of SMA AG are oriented toward the SMA Group. €97.0 million). Other operating income included €45.8 million (2017: €61.1 million) from the reversal of provisions. In addition, claims for compensation from insurers and suppliers of €1.1 million were reported here (2017: €1.0 million). Income from foreign currency valuation totaled €13.8 million in the fiscal year (2017: €9.1 million). SMA Solar Technology AG // Annual Report 2018 Fiscal Year 2018 – Combined Management Report 55 Material expenses increased by €12.8 million year on year Net Assets and Financial Position to €466.2 million (2017: €453.4 million). The rise in ­material expenses can be explained primarily by the larger share of SMA Solar Technology AG Balance Sheet in Accordance merchandise. With HGB as of December 31, 2018 Personnel expenses increased by 11.3% to €148.3 million in €’000 2018/12/31 2017/12/31 (2017: €133.3 million). The average number of employees (not ­including temporary employees, trainees or interns) went up by ASSETS 146 to 2,072 employees. A. Non-current assets I. Intangible assets 12,853 13,102 Depreciation and amortization of intangible and fixed assets declined by €1.6 million to €29.4 million (2017: €31.0 million). II. Fixed Assets 181,575 190,570 The reduction in depreciation and amortization was primarily III. Financial assets 50,395 142,058 a result of lower investing activities. 244,823 345,730 B. Current assets Other operating expenses rose by 26.1% to €239.6 million I. Inventories 128,055 107,699 (2017: €190.0 million). This is particularly attributable to expenses II. Receivables and other assets 144,729 176,439 from the recognition of provisions of €65.2 million (2017: III. Securities 100,225 150,230 €44.2 million) and the valuation of receivables of €11.4 milIV. Cash and cash equivalents 158,330 201,833 lion (2017: €1.2 million) as well as prior-period expenses of €9.3 million (2017: €0.2 million). This includes a value adjustment 531,339 636,201 of €7.9 million relating to sales tax receivables abroad. It also C. Prepaid expenses and deferred charges 1,845 1,961 includes selling costs of €32.7 million (2017: €34.8 million) and 778,007 983,892 expenses from foreign currency valuation of €12.2 million (2017: €19.5 million). LIABILITIES A. Shareholders’ equity The financial result amounted to –€94.3 million (2017: I. Share capital 34,700 34,700 €15.4 million). It includes the significantly reduced income from II. Capital reserves 124,200 124,200 investments of €5.3 million (2017: €15.9 million) and unscheduled depreciation on SMA New Energy Technology (Jiangsu) Co., Ltd., III. Retained earnings Suzhou, China, in connection with its planned sale, and on Tigo 1. Statutory reserve 400 400 Energy, Inc., Los Gatos, U.S., due to the company’s poor medium-­ 2. Other retained earnings 3,136 3,136 term chances of success in the highly competitive market for smart IV. Profit available for distribution 183,725 407,009 ­module technology. 346,161 569,445 B. Special account with reserve characteristics 62 81 Taxes on income decreased by €0.4 million. This item includes C. Provisions 168,982 147,616 tax income for previous years in the amount of €0.8 million (2017: D. Trade payables 120,729 129,204 €2.0 million). E. Accrued liabilities 142,073 137,546 After tax, the Company reported an annual net loss of 778,007 983,892 €211.1 million in 2018 compared with annual net income of €63.4 million in the previous fiscal year. The annual net loss is impacted by one-time items amounting to €148.2 million. As of December 31, 2018, total assets of SMA AG fell by €205.9 million to €778.0 million (2017: €983.9 million). Non-current assets decreased by €100.9 million to €244.8 million (2017: €345.7 million). The decline is attributable to lower investing activities compared to depreciation. In addition, unscheduled depreciation had to be recognized on SMA New Energy Technology (Jiangsu) Co., Ltd., Suzhou, China, in connection with its planned sale, and on Tigo Energy, Inc., Los Gatos, U.S., due to the company’s poor medium-term chances of success in the highly ­competitive market for smart module technology. Annual Report 2018 // SMA Solar Technology AG 56 Combined Management Report – Fiscal Year 2018 As of December 31, 2018, total inventories of €128.1 million MANAGING BOARD STATEMENT ON were above the previous year’s level (2017: €107.7 million). The increase of 18.9% compared with the previous year is the result, in THE BUSINESS TRENDS IN 2018 particular, of an increase in inventories of raw materials, consumables and supplies by €10.8 million to €57.5 million. With 8,449 MW of inverter output sold (2017: 8,538 MW), the SMA Group’s sales volume in 2018 was roughly on a par Trade receivables decreased by €37.5 million and totaled with the previous year. Sales amounted to €760.9 million. SMA €43.0 million on the reporting date. thus reached the lower end of its sales guidance last adjusted on November 30, 2018, but fell short of the original sales guidCash and cash equivalents and securities fell by 26.6% to ance from January 24, 2018 (€900 million to €1 billion), and the €258.6 million (2017: €352.1 million). adjusted sales guidance from September 27, 2018 (€800 million to €850 million). This was due chiefly to the enormous price Equity declined, as a result of earnings and dividend payments, pressure in all markets and segments and to project delays as a by €223.3 million to €346.2 million compared with December 31, result of the significant market decline in China and the associated 2017. The equity ratio fell to 44.5% (2017: 57.9%). internationalization of Chinese manufacturers in the second half of the year. Distribution of SMA sales was largely well balanced The provisions of SMA AG largely comprise provisions for warbetween all segments. Overall, the Utility segment generated ranty obligations for our various product families and personnel 35.0% of the SMA Group’s sales in 2018, while the Commercial provisions. The €21.4 million increase in provisions to €169.0 milsegment contributed 33.1%, the Residential segment 23.9%, and lion (2017: €147.6 million) particularly results from the transfers the ­Storage segment 8.0% (2017: 32.4% Utility, 30.5% Commerto warranty provisions. cial, 26.2% Residential, 10.9% Storage). Trade payables slightly went up by €1.3 million year on year EBITDA of –€69.1 million (EBITDA margin: –9.1%) was in line with to €83.9 million (2017: €82.6 million). the adjusted guidance from November 30, 2018 (guidance: negative EBITDA in the midto high-double-digit million euro range). Accrued liabilities of €142.1 million (2017: €137.5 million) It was impacted by negative one-time items amounting to €86 milwere reported for deferred sales for extended warranties as well lion. SMA did not achieve its original earnings guidance from as ­service and maintenance contracts sold for subsequent years. January 24, 2018 (guidance: €90 million to €110 million), or its adjusted earnings guidance from September 27, 2018 (guidance: SMA AG’s financial position essentially corresponds to that of break-even to slightly negative EBITDA). the SMA Group. Net cash declined to €305.5 million (2017: €449.7 million); the equity ratio was 42.9% at the end of the reporting year (2017: RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES 50.3%). In addition, SMA has a long-term credit line from domestic banks of €100 million. The business performance of SMA AG is largely exposed to the same risks and opportunities as the SMA Group. SMA AG also To quickly and sustainably return SMA to profitability without negpartakes in the risks affecting its investments and subsidiary compaatively impacting investments in the major fields of the future, the nies proportionate to its respective holding. The risks are presented Managing Board resolved extensive measures to reduce costs and in the Risks and Opportunities Report. The relationships with our increase sales, of which implementation started at the beginning investments can also result in negative effects from statutory or conof the 2019 fiscal year. The main measures include giving up the tractual provisions for liabilities (particularly financing). locations in China and selling the Chinese companies to the local management. The measures are aimed at reducing SMA’s fixed costs and making optimal use of our capacity at the headquarters OUTLOOK by focusing on our core competencies, outsourcing and automating activities, reorganizing structures and at increasing sales by placAs a result of SMA AG’s interdependence with its Group compaing an even stronger focus on customers. nies and its importance within the Group, please refer to our statements in the Forecast Report for the SMA Group, which also outline the expectations for the parent company specifically. SMA Solar Technology AG // Annual Report 2018 Fiscal Year 2018 – Combined Management Report 57 POSITIONING IN FUTURE FIELDS ADVANCED 1 Target-Actual Comparison for 2018 In the past fiscal year, SMA took further steps to advance its straForecast Forecast Forecast tegic positioning in important future fields. Since the beginning of on 2018/ on 2018/ on 2018/ 2018 2018, the SMA subsidiary coneva opens up the business field of in € million 01/24 09/27 11/30 results digital energy solutions. It provides public utility, housing and telecommunications companies, among others, with white label soluSales 900 to 800 to 760 to 1,000 850 780 760.9 tions for energy management and the integration of end customers EBITDA Negative in into the energy market. In addition, it designs energy monitoring, the midto control and management solutions for commercial enterprises Break-even high-­doubleto slightly digit million and public institutions based on the energy management platform 90 to 110 negative range –69.1 ennexOS developed by SMA. coneva is thus tapping into important new markets and customer groups for SMA in energy supply digitalization. The subsidiary emerce develops and operates online sales channels for select markets. SMA enhanced its positioning Net income in the Storage segment, for example, by expanding its strategic partnership with the leading battery manufacturer BYD in order to in € million tap growth markets in the Americas and Africa together. According to a study by IHS Markit (“Energy Storage Inverter (PCS) Report 30 30 2018”), SMA had already been by far the world’s leading pro14 vider of battery inverters back in 2017. Another growth segment is modernization and functional enhancement of existing PV systems (Repowering). Here, SMA launched attractive offers for all power classes in the reporting period. NEW PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS DEVELOPED IN CORE BUSINESS 1 –176 In its core business, SMA launched additional products and solu–179 tions for reducing the cost of PV power generation in all segments 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 and markets in the reporting year. These included the easily installable three-phase Sunny Tripower 3.0–6.0 for private residential PV systems; in the U.S. market, new versions of the Sunny Tripower CORE1 for commercial PV systems which meet the NEC standards applicable there starting 2019; and the Sunny Highpower PEAK3, Earnings per Share the first SMA string inverter for large-scale PV power plants with 1,500 volt DC voltage. in Euro Additionally in the reporting period, SMA developed system pack0.85 0.87 0.41 ages with hardware, software and service components tailored to the needs of installers and end customers for the Residential and Commercial segments. These are gradually introduced to ­markets starting the first quarter of 2019. –5.16 –5.06 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 1 This section is not a mandatory component of the management report as defined in Section 315 HGB in conjunction with GAS 20, and therefore not a subject of the financial audit. Annual Report 2018 // SMA Solar Technology AG 58 Combined Management Report – Risks and Opportunities Report RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES REPORT PRINCIPLES OF THE RISK AND RISK MANAGEMENT ­OPPORTUNITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM The purpose of risk management is to identify risks above a defined In the context of its business activity worldwide, the SMA Group, threshold as early as possible, to present them transparently and as a leading global specialist for photovoltaic system technology, comparably, and to assess and manage them. SMA must also is exposed to a range of risks, which can impair target achievement accept risks to a certain extent to utilize opportunities. The Manin implementation of strategies in the business units. SMA employs aging Board laid out binding objectives for risk management in appropriate measures to influence and control those risks. A risk is terms of risk strategy and principles of organization, analysis and defined by SMA as an event that ensues from a decision made by communication in a risk manual. It contains all methodical and management (strategic), an action (operative) or external circumorganizational regulations for dealing with risks, requirements and stances and – if the risk occurs – results in a negative deviation value limits as well as regular and immediate uniform reporting from the planned EBIT. Opportunities are also systematically identiprocesses. fied and recorded by means of opportunity management. For SMA, an opportunity is the possibility of an event occurring that positively influences target achievement. The Risk and Opportunity ManageCompany-Wide Risk Management Process ment System is based on the COSO Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) – Integrated Framework (COSO ERM), which is an interAll SMA subsidiaries and business areas are included in the nationally accepted standard for establishing and systematically scope of the risk management process. The main steps of the risk developing a company-wide Risk Management System. SMA uses ­management process are explained hereafter: a uniform software application to systematically record and report risks and opportunities and to meet documentation requirements. RISK IDENTIFICATION Organizational Structure Once a quarter, selected executives in the first two levels below the Managing Board and selected central Group functions (“risk The SMA Managing Board bears overall responsibility for effective owners”) assess the SMA risk situation in a standardized “botrisk and opportunity management and ensures that all risks and tom-up process” and document the individual risks and correopportunities are considered comprehensively and uniformly. The sponding measures. Involving this group of people ensures active Supervisory Board is responsible for monitoring the effectiveness identification and measurement of risks and creates necessary of the Group-wide Risk and Opportunity Management System. In transparency. order for this task to be performed, the Supervisory Board’s Audit Committee processes the information for the Supervisory Board. Technical responsibility for the uniform Group-wide Risk ManageRISK ASSESSMENT ment System lies with the “Corporate Audit, Risk & Information Security” department. This department reports directly to the Chief For each individual risk identified, the relevant risk owner assesses Financial Officer and is responsible for implementation of Groupthe probability of occurrence and the amount of damage that wide standards and methods and for coordination and ongoing might be caused. The amount of damage is measured based on the development of the risk management process. potential effect on the planned EBIT. The effect of a risk is classified in one of three damage classes: “low,” “medium” and “high.” The probability of occurrence is classified according to two evaluation categories: “possible” and “likely.” SMA Solar Technology AG // Annual Report 2018 Risks and Opportunities Report – Combined Management Report 59 Gross and net risks have to be determined for every individual risk OPPORTUNITY MANAGEMENT within an projection period of two years. Gross risk represents the largest possible negative effect before implemented and effective In order to be successful, each company must take advantage of management and monitoring tools are applied. Net risk considers its existing internal and external potential. The structural changes in risk-reduction measures. the energy supply pose challenges for SMA, but also offer major opportunities, for example, with regard to digitalization. As part of our integrated risk and opportunity management approach, RISK MANAGEMENT we regularly identify and assess opportunities in addition to risks. Identifying them early on and regularly and acting accordingly is While taking into account the corporate strategy, the objective of a core management task. Opportunities are generally recognized risk management is to actively influence identified and assessed by the risk owners if they reach a defined threshold of €1 million individual risks. SMA’s risk situation must be positively affected in (positive effect on planned EBIT). Opportunities are assessed to a targeted way using suitable measures. In order to reduce the risk the best of our knowledge, based on assumptions, among others, position, the risk owners have the task of developing and implerelating to market development, market potential of technologies menting suitable measures. The goal is to manage identified risks and system solutions as well as forecasted changes in demand actively. This may include forming security reserves or transferring and prices. The cornerstones of this are the Group-wide planning specific risks to third parties (e. g., through insurance companies). process as well as strategy meetings held by the Managing Board With regard to risk management, these measures and their implewith executives from the two top levels of management. To identify mentation are subject to regular review and adjustment by the risk our opportunities, we continuously employ market and competiowners. tive analysis and systematic knowledge management, and place great importance on an open information policy within the Group. In doing so, we strive to create a balanced relationship between RISK MONITORING AND REPORTING opportunities and risks. The development of all risks is continuously monitored. Our Risk Management System is designed to ensure that the appropriate KEY FEATURES OF THE INTERNAL C ­ ONTROL employees can identify risks and changes to them early on and report them to the decision-makers in the Company. These reports AND RISK MANAGEMENT SYSTEM IN are first made to central Risk Management and to the Managing RELATION TO THE (GROUP) ACCOUNTING Board if the individual risks are classified at least as “medium.” In addition, the risk owners must report risks to the Managing Board PROCESS on an ad-hoc basis if their damage class is “high” and their probability of occurrence is “likely.” Adjustments to the Risk ManageSMA’s Internal Control System includes all the principles, procement System and all significant risks and measures are presented dures and measures available to ensure business activities maintain to the Risk & Opportunity Board in regular meetings. In the regular the proper course. It is made up of systematically created organiprocess, the business unit heads ensure that all significant risks zational and technical measures and controls within the Company and opportunities for their respective business field are fully docuaimed at guaranteeing adherence to laws and regulations, as well mented and correctly evaluated in the Risk Management System. as guidelines for preventing damage that might be caused by its In addition, the Supervisory Board’s Audit Committee is informed employees or third parties. The Managing Board is responsible for of significant risks with a considerable impact and newly identified implementation and adequacy of the Internal Control System. The issues that exceed defined value limits every six months. To ensure Audit Committee of the SMA Supervisory Board monitors the effecintegration with the (Group) accounting process, the risk managetiveness of the Internal Control and Risk Management System on ment process follows a coordinated schedule and thus provides all the basis of Section 107 (3) AktG. SMA functions involved in (Group) accounting and financial reporting with the relevant information in full. Annual Report 2018 // SMA Solar Technology AG 60 Combined Management Report – Risks and Opportunities Report The Internal Control System pertaining to the accounting process The Internal Control System measures are aimed at securing proper is part of the overall Internal Control System, which is embedded and reliable (Group) accounting and ensure business transactions in the Company-wide Risk Management System. Process-integrated are fully, correctly and promptly recorded in accordance with legal and process-independent monitoring steps are elements of the interprovisions and the articles of association. They also guarantee that nal monitoring system. Automated IT process controls are an intethe process of stock taking is properly implemented and that assets gral part of the process-integrated measures. Additional controls and liabilities are properly recognized, measured and carried in are the organizational monitoring methods, such as the four-eyes the Annual Financial Statements and Consolidated Financial Stateprinciple, separation of administration, execution, settlement and ments. Furthermore, the regulations ensure that accounting records approval functions and written work instructions. Furthermore, wherprovide reliable and comprehensible information. The main tasks ever possible we protect the IT systems deployed against unauof the departments involved in the (Group) accounting process thorized access by using appropriate authorization systems and are clearly separated and their areas of responsibility are clearly access restrictions. The Supervisory Board’s Audit ­Committee and assigned. the Internal Audit department are intimately incorporated into the internal monitoring system with process-independent audit activities. SMA constantly evaluates laws, financial reporting standards and other agreements and considers their relevance and effect on the On the basis of a risk-orientated audit plan, the Internal Audit (Group) accounting process. We promptly communicate applicadepartment regularly examines the effectiveness of the Interble requirements to all Group companies. The uniform IT platform, nal Control System by means of sampling and thus also checks Group account plan and standardized processes ensure proper material parts of the Internal Control System as it pertains to the and timely recording of all important business transactions. There (Group’s) accounting process. Alongside the Internal Audit departare binding rules for the recording of manual business transactions. ment, the auditor of the Annual Financial Statements also carries An accounting manual specifies Group-wide accounting provisions out an evaluation. Under the terms of his/her audit of the Financial in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards Statements, the auditor is obliged to report any risks found related (IFRS). In addition to general accounting principles and methods, to accounting and any fundamental weaknesses in the Internal the regulations, above all, include requirements concerning the balControl and Risk Management System to the Supervisory Board’s ance sheet, income statement, statement of comprehensive income, Audit Committee. Audits of the Annual Financial Statements and Notes, Management Report, statement of cash flows, statement of Consolidated Financial Statements by the auditor and of the local changes in equity and segment reporting in compliance with EU financial statements submitted by the Group companies included legislation. By defining clear requirements, the risk of inconsistent in the scope of consolidation, safeguard the basic process-­ practices when recognizing, measuring and carrying assets and independent monitoring mechanism in the accounting system. liabilities should be reduced. In addition, a check is carried out centrally on the financial statements submitted by the companies Important risks in the (Group) accounting process include the possiincluded in the scope of consolidation while referring to the audit bility that the consolidated local financial statements of the Group reports drafted by the local auditors. Each month upon submission companies fail to properly reflect the true net assets, financial posiof the reporting packages, those responsible at the subsidiaries tion and results of operations due to unintentional or ­deliberate also confirm the propriety and completeness of each financial statewrongdoing, or that publication of the Quarterly Statements or of ment by way of an internal declaration of completeness. the Annual Financial Statements is late. These risks may permanently impair the confidence of shareholders or the reputation of Business transactions at SMA and at all the larger subsidiaries SMA. SMA’s Internal Control System as it pertains to (Group) are primarily recorded using ERP systems from SAP AG. These accounting is concerned with minimizing the risk of misstatements in are protected from misuse by appropriate authorization systems the Group’s bookkeeping as well as in external financial reporting. and access restrictions. The authorizations granted are reviewed To ensure systematic early identification of risks Group-wide, SMA and amended regularly. The centralized control and monitoring of has a monitoring system to identify risks early on that threaten the nearly all IT systems, centralized change management and regular existence of the Company in accordance with Section 91 (2) of the system backups minimize not only the risk of data loss, but also the AktG. Existence-threatening and other risks are promptly identified, risk of IT system failures related to (Group) accounting. Smaller managed and monitored, beyond the limits of statutory regulations. companies either operate local ERP systems or commission external The auditor assesses proper functioning of the early risk identificaservice providers with their own IT systems. tion system in accordance with Section 317 (4) of the HGB. SMA Solar Technology AG // Annual Report 2018 Risks and Opportunities Report – Combined Management Report 61 Use of a uniform, Group-wide consolidation program ensures that Presentation of Significant Risks all data is recorded properly, promptly and completely and that Risk internal business transactions within the Group are eliminated. developThis is from where the various components of the Consolidated ment as Potential of DecemFinancial Statements, including important data for the Notes to Probability financial ber 31, the ­Consolidated Financial Statements, are derived. Risks of occurrence effects 2018 The Internal Control and Risk Management System enables control Strategic risks of risks that might otherwise prevent the Annual Financial StateRegulatory risks Likely Medium ments and Consolidated Financial Statements from being properly Competition risks Likely Medium drawn up and is therefore continuously being improved. However, Market risks Likely Medium Company-wide application of the regulatory and control measures Risks from research and development Possible Medium cannot guarantee absolute reliability with regard to the accurate, activities complete and timely recording of facts in (Group) accounting and Operating risks in the detection of irregularities. Procurement and inventory risks Likely Medium Product risks Likely High Production and operational risks Possible Medium DESCRIPTION OF SIGNIFICANT RISKS Personnel-related risks Likely Medium IT and information security risks Likely High In this report, SMA describes the risks classified as significant with Financial risks disadvantageous effects on business and the associated net assets, Financing, currency and liquidity risks Possible Medium financial position and results of operation of the Group and on the Risks from customer bad debt Possible Low Company’s reputation. The summarized description of significant Compliance risks risks shows the risks described below according to SMA’s assessRisks from violations of the law Possible Medium ment after taking measures (net risk). Export risks Possible Medium Risks from violating data protection law Possible Medium The probability of occurrence and the possible effect of a risk as well as its year-on-year development are assessed by the following Environmental risks Possible Low criteria: Features of the Risk Assessment Strategic Risks Probability Risk developof occurrence Potential effects ment year on REGULATORY RISKS in % in € year (trend) Due to the regulatory nature of government subsidies and their Possible Low Limited negative effects  on expected EBIT, no loss content-related and regional development as well as increasing (> 0% to < 50%) (>= 0.3 million Higher than to of r­ eputation, no threat to last year global tariff trade barriers resulting from bilateral trade disputes, < 10 million) ­customer relationships there is still a high degree of volatility in the photovoltaics sector. Likely Medium Some negative effects on There are considerable regional and cyclical volume fluctuations (>= 50% to (>= 10 million expected EBIT, moderate loss Same as < 100%) to of reputation, potential threat that also affect SMA and therefore complicate corporate planning ­previous year < 20 million) to customer relationships, significantly. ­identifiable disruption to business operations (primarily internal effect) The drastic reduction of the PV expansion targets in China High Substantial negative effects announced by the Chinese government in mid-2018 had far-­ (>= 20 million) on expected EBIT, high loss Lower than reaching negative effects on the pricing of PV modules and PV of reputation, major threat last year to customer relationships, system technology in the past fiscal year. Arising from additional significant disruption to business price decreases anticipated, investments in PV projects were postoperations (with external effect) up to disruption of business poned, which also impacted sales volumes at SMA. It is currently operations that threatens difficult to estimate the effects of the excess capacity, particularly at existence Chinese PV modules and system technology manufacturers, on the future business performance of SMA. Annual Report 2018 // SMA Solar Technology AG 62 Combined Management Report – Risks and Opportunities Report The U.S. import duties that have now been introduced on PV cells In addition, it is conceivable that competitors will further improve and PV modules from China are negatively impacting SMA’s earnthe quality, functionality or performance of their products, or local ings prospects in the Americas region, as they increase the total competitors will react more flexibly and adapt better to the precosts of PV systems. Tariff trade barriers in the APAC (excluding vailing market requirements in certain markets. Markets breaking China) and EMEA regions could also impact SMA’s profitability. away in connection with freed-up capacity, especially in China, as a result of its expansion targets being reduced again, also causes It is not yet possible to foresee the effects on SMA’s profitabilan increase in fierce competition. In the future, such competition ity from legislation like the Act on the Digitalization of the Energy will lead to additional declines in prices for products and services ­Transition in Germany and EU directives on technical standards produced by SMA and likewise to a loss in market shares. and regulations. If new normative regulations are introduced or if use of centralized communication units like the Smart Meter The price decline is expected to be offset by growth in volume. Gateway is made compulsory, a detrimental impact on SMA’s SMA is meeting the price competition with market-appropriate ­profitability will result. and cost-optimized products and innovative solutions. With expenditure for research and development of €87.1 million (including SMA regularly performs market research to be able to respond capitalized development projects) in the 2018 fiscal year, SMA promptly to emerging changes in trade barriers, subsidies and is extremely well-positioned to set important trends with new standards in target and existing markets. Short-term fluctuations products, systems and solutions. The numerous awards SMA has in demand are shown in the rolling forecast process. Thanks to its received for its high capacity for innovation underscore market high level of flexibility in production, SMA can usually react quickly ­orientation of development achievements. to changes. By using temporary staff and adapting the shift model, operations can be scaled in a ratio of 1:2 within a few weeks. In There is also a risk that SMA’s service quality could deteriorate and addition, SMA works to contact the certification authorities and no longer be perceived by market participants as a differentiating electric utility companies to be able to make any necessary adjustfeature in comparison to its competitors. SMA counters this risk with ments to its product and service portfolio early on. Our employees new IT systems and improved processes. actively contribute to new technical guidelines through standards associations and other organizations. SMA regularly reviews the Cost-out measures and projects to increase efficiency will be purassumptions and associated risks with regard to strategic projects. sued consistently. In addition, the restructuring of global locations, These procedures allow SMA to react quickly to changes in what is cost structures and business models that has already been initiated required of our products. will be the key to SMA’s long-term success. For more information on development in individual markets, please see the remarks in the Forecast Report, “Future General Economic MARKET RISKS Conditions in the Photovoltaics Sector” section. Photovoltaics have proven to be increasingly competitive in recent years. In a growing number of regions around the world, solar COMPETITION RISKS power is now more cost-effective than conventional energy, but it is also competing with other forms of renewable energy such as The current market environment for PV systems is promoting fierce wind energy. competition. In particular, existing competitors are attempting to secure market shares through extremely aggressive policies regardThe risk of declining market shares in conjunction with the risk of ing pricing and terms and conditions, partly due to existing excess aggressive competition or changes in market development is monicapacity. Furthermore, the price is becoming increasingly importtored continuously by the heads of the business units based on the ant as a result of the growing commoditization of inverters in all forecast process with Sales. These risks are countered with adjustsegments, while technological differentiating features are increasments to the product and solution portfolio that are appropriate to ingly fading into the background. This additional price pressure market changes and the consistent positioning of the SMA brand. could result in significant negative effects on SMA’s further business development and earnings. SMA Solar Technology AG // Annual Report 2018 Risks and Opportunities Report – Combined Management Report 63 Nonetheless, there is a certain dependence on individual regions Operating Risks or markets (e. g., U.S. business). The weak performance of the U.S. market due to regulatory and political changes had correspondPROCUREMENT AND INVENTORY RISKS ingly negative effects on SMA. However, the Managing Board continues to see medium-term prospects as positive. SMA can keep SMA is still exposed to an increased dependence on certain supits dependence on individual photovoltaic markets at a low level, pliers. We work to minimize these risks through market analyses, however, by being present in all major global markets. To generate careful evaluation of suppliers, flexible supplier agreements, clearly economies of scale or expand its portfolio, SMA enters into tardefined quality standards and reducing dependence on individual geted strategic alliances. suppliers. In future innovations, SMA will therefore reduce the number of platforms, make greater use of standard components and Formation of buying syndicates can increase the dependency of qualify alternative suppliers to increase flexibility. SMA on a few wholesalers or specialist wholesalers and other ­customers generating large sales. This dependency harbors a Demand for certain electronic components and individual raw risk as a result of these large customers gaining more negotiatmaterials is still extremely high worldwide, however, this has only ing power coupled with increased price pressure. However, by resulted in delivery problems in a few cases. SMA is counteracting means of its sales strategy, SMA avoids dependency on individthis situation by implementing a closely monitored, proactive stockual ­customers. The share in total sales of the ten largest customers piling strategy, bringing on board more suppliers and optimizing worldwide increased only slightly to approximately 30% in the supply contracts. However, there is still a risk of inverter production 2018 fiscal year. and delivery delays due to a shortage of certain primary materials. For more information on development in individual markets, please Regular inventory analyses are carried out in connection with see the remarks in the Forecast Report, “Future General Economic increasingly shorter innovation cycles and resulting potential Conditions in the Photovoltaics Sector” section. inventory write-down requirements. Inventories are continuously monitored and adjusted with controlling tools and early warning systems. By monitoring changes in important raw material prices, RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT RISKS development trends should be identified in a timely manner and compensatory mechanisms developed with suppliers before they In addition to the optimization of existing products and the develaffect purchase prices and negatively influence SMA’s earnings. opment of future product generations, the SMA Managing Board’s Optimization of our purchasing structures and the long-standing goal is to develop and launch complete system solutions and digpurchasing partnership with Danfoss are leading to lower purchase ital business models. However, this inherently gives rise to the risk prices and logistics costs and diminished dependence on local that vital technological trends are identified too late or that market suppliers, while continuing to improve specific negotiations and our launch is delayed due to development stages that are too long. competitiveness. As part of our global purchasing and ­commodity As this may lead to sales losses and declining market shares, SMA strategy, these activities are being pursued and expanded in is continuing to counter such situations by investing around 10% a ­sustainable manner. of sales in research and development activities to advance new processes, technologies, products, system solutions and services. If any inventory risks due to surplus inventories or obsolescence are SMA is consciously seeking collaboration with research facilities identified, these are taken into account in corresponding impairto advance strategic development projects. However, we cannot ment losses. rule out that individual development projects will fail to deliver expected exploitable economic results or do so in the expected For more information on development in individual markets, please time frame. see the remarks in the Forecast Report, “Overall Statement From the Managing Board on Expected Development of the SMA For additional details, please refer to the information on research Group” section. and development in the Combined Management Report. Annual Report 2018 // SMA Solar Technology AG 64 Combined Management Report – Risks and Opportunities Report PRODUCT RISKS PRODUCTION AND OPERATIONAL RISKS We are always striving to develop new products, solutions and Extensive facilities, equipment and systems are required to operate systems and to improve existing ones. For this reason, we use new the production and administrative infrastructure, and their smooth materials and advanced technologies in development to make operation is exposed to risks due to a number of factors, including innovations possible. This can result in SMA products being defecnatural disasters, accidents, wear and force majeure. SMA is well tive. Large delivery lots bear the risk of errors or defects affecting a aware of this and employs a preventive maintenance and servicing product series or several product batches. Production shortcomings management strategy to mitigate the risk of operation-related inframay derive from SMA errors or from defects in primary products structure downtime. Appropriate property and business interruption provided by SMA suppliers. Unidentified incompatibilities can also insurance has been taken out against this risk of damage. emerge after products are launched, which requires improvement to the customer system on-site after installation to prevent the prodWhen introducing new operational processes and EDP systems or uct from posing a danger to the customer, in the worst-case scechanging existing ones, delays or design flaws may impair efficient nario. A lapse of reliability of our products could result in a longbusiness organization and processing. SMA counters this by means term loss of trust and reputation. In addition, necessary product of systematic project management. recalls would have a negative impact on earnings. If responsibility for the error lies with the supplier, then the ­supplier PERSONNEL-RELATED RISKS must bear the direct costs. If SMA is responsible for the error, then product liability insurance may cover the losses incurred. Qualified and motivated employees are key to the global evolution However, SMA is still responsible for repair work and material of our enterprise and SMA’s business success. To ensure SMA’s costs under the statutory warranty and the given factory warranties. viability, it is important to retain engineers and other skilled staff at Newly developed products may be subject to more failures than the Company for the long term as well as to fill management posiestablished products. We are able to minimize this risk through tions adequately. The SMA Managing Board continuously monitors comprehensive testing during the development phases, accompapersonnel structures and, if necessary, adapts them to the sales nying quality inspections during production and field testing prior level expected in the future. to scheduled serial production. We make provisions for disputes related to product risks if we consider it very likely that such claims There is still a risk that talented individuals could leave the Comwill be successful. pany and that strategic positions may not be able to be filled on short notice, either at all or by someone with the necessary qualiTo continuously increase the quality of our products in addition to fications. We offer performance-based remuneration systems and general process improvements covering the entire value chain, new participation in the Company’s success, flexible working hours and developments are backed by specific stress and qualification tests, options for continuing education and training as well as for balancand tests are carried out on the entire series. In the event of techniing family and career. By networking with university research and cal faults in the products, Service assesses the nature and scope of education at the Kassel site and building other partnerships with the fault and the need for repair or replacement of the devices and universities and institutes, SMA also works to be perceived as an carries out appropriate measures. attractive employer and is thereby able to successfully recruit and retain highly qualified young staff to the Company long term. For additional details, please refer to the information in the section “Non-Financial Statement” in the Combined Management Report. SMA Solar Technology AG // Annual Report 2018 Risks and Opportunities Report – Combined Management Report 65 IT AND INFORMATION SECURITY RISKS For additional details, please refer to the information under Financial Position – Principles and Objectives of Financial Management As a global technology and innovation leader and publicly traded in the Combined Management Report. stock corporation, SMA is in the public eye and therefore heavily under threat of industrial espionage and cybercrime. Increasing For detailed information regarding the financial market risks and connectivity and the need for permanent availability place ever risk management, please also refer to the Notes to the Consolihigher demands on our IT systems and products. We reduce the dated Financial Statements on pages 111 et seq. under 30. Objecrisks of IT breakdowns by continually reviewing and improving tives and Methods Concerning Financial Risk Management. IT security and employing advanced hardware and software solutions. We use protective measures at all levels of the Company to avert this. To minimize the risk of data losses, SMA constantly takes RISK FROM CUSTOMER BAD DEBT precautions such as regularly building employee awareness, distributed data centers, mirrored databases and cloud solutions. All The volatile and sometimes unfavorable conditions of the financial major EDP systems are also continuously monitored and patched. markets are conducive to potential payment difficulties for some Alongside securing network and server availability, it is most customers. In addition, the competitive situation and internationimportant to avoid potential information loss via employees, service alization require extension of payment periods, coupled with the providers and external attacks. In addition, there is a focus on the reduction of collateral (e. g., in the form of bank guarantees). cyber security of SMA’s products and the digital services offered. If customers can no longer keep up with their payment obligations, Despite these extensive and state-of-the-art security measures, a there is a higher default risk for receivables with negative effects situation cannot be ruled out in which SMA’s products and services on SMA’s results of operations, financial position and net assets. are compromised by a massive targeted hacker attack. The impact of an incident like this on SMA’s reputation could be significant. As part of our accounts receivable management, we minimize the risk of non-payment in accordance with the Company’s credit guidelines by obtaining references and credit reports for the purFinancial Risks poses of a credit check, allocating appropriate credit limits and continuously monitoring general payment practices. If it is expected FINANCING, CURRENCY AND LIQUIDITY RISKS that a credit limit is not sufficient for our future business relationship, then we examine whether we should ask the customer to As a global business, SMA is naturally exposed to financial furnish collateral or whether we can accept the residual risk. To risks. These include risks from changes to general interest rates, cover potential payment defaults, SMA also takes out commercial exchange rate fluctuations and financing and liquidity risks. credit insurances. Payment periods decreased slightly in the past fiscal year. If non-payment risks materialize, these will be taken Treasury controls Group financing and limitation of financial risks into account by means of corresponding impairment losses. The at SMA. The principle underlying our hedging policy is to protect Commercial Project Management function at the locations in the SMA against sharp changes in prices, exchange rates and interest U.S. and Germany represents another effective measure to avoid rates by means of contracts and hedging transactions to an ecoor minimize risk to project business, which is an important aspect nomically feasible extent. Treasury has also secured borrowing of SMA’s portfolio. All project and service contracts entailing risks with a long-term credit line of €100 million. are systematically subjected to a legal and commercial risk assessment. Based on this, risky agreements are secured for SMA through The permissible hedging instruments have been laid out by the additional financial securities or contractual adjustments made with Managing Board in Group-wide guidelines that also regulate the both Sales and the customer. Remaining project risks are assessed entire process-oriented organization, including hedging strategies, and approved separately by the heads of the business units and responsibilities and control mechanisms. As an example, extensive the Managing Board, provided these risks are proportionate to currency hedges were concluded. earnings. Annual Report 2018 // SMA Solar Technology AG 66 Combined Management Report – Risks and Opportunities Report Compliance Risks Due to its global business operations, SMA is subject to various tax laws and regulations. Tax changes in Germany and abroad could RISKS FROM VIOLATIONS OF THE LAW negatively affect the tax positions of SMA. In addition to legal changes, assessment and interpretation of complex tax regulations, There is a risk that SMA could be involved in unlawful business such as those regarding transfer prices, may also affect our net conduct or that individual employees could violate SMA’s ­business assets, financial position and results of operations. SMA therefore principles and directives. In particular, this includes the risk of collaborates closely with tax consultants in individual countries and ­corruption and fraud. occasionally conducts tax audits. The Group Compliance function thus issued business principles For additional details, please refer to the information in the and directives globally. Basic work sequences and processes were ­section “Non-Financial Statement” in the Combined Managederived from these and implemented globally. In the context of ment Report and on our website www.SMA.de/en/company/ their work for SMA, all employees are obligated to act ethically group-compliance. and in accordance with the laws and regulations of the legal ­system of their country. These regulations and obligations are consolidated worldwide by mandatory, extensive training sessions EXPORT RISKS on business principles. As a result of internationalization and the fact that more than 80% Our goal is to minimize antitrust risks from the outset. Group Comof all deliveries are sent to customers outside Germany, there are pliance has therefore issued an antitrust directive. The directive stipincreased risks for SMA from handling the import and export of ulates a clear code of conduct for all major business situations. In materials, services and finished products. SMA must meet the legal addition, all employees in the areas affected must regularly receive requirements for imports from and exports to many countries to stay antitrust law training. competitive and meet the needs of its international customers. With our patents and through constant monitoring of ­technologies Violations of trade restrictions and customs laws are subject to sigand competitors relevant to SMA, we work to maintain and expand nificant penalties and could damage SMA’s reputation. Therefore, our technological edge. Because competitors and research instiSMA purposefully monitors its obligations under commercial and tutes also file a large number of patent applications, we ­cannot customs law using an IT system, which significantly reduces the risk rule out that, in spite of regular, extensive and international of potential non-compliance. research, we will not infringe on third-party patent rights or other industrial property rights or that, vice versa, our rights will be ­violated by third parties. If the former occurs, SMA may incur conRISKS OF VIOLATING DATA PROTECTION LAW siderable costs related to claims for compensation, in its defense against such claims or in relation to royalty payments to third parThe entry into force of the EU’s General Data Protection Regulation ties. It is therefore important to SMA that a product be checked for in May 2018 gave rise to new or enhanced organizational and third-party rights in a timely manner before approval and market technical requirements for data protection. The number and volume launch. Corresponding milestones have been included in the guideof fines that could be incurred for violating data protection law has lines and process descriptions on product development and market increased dramatically. launch. The Intellectual Property Management function actively protects proprietary technologies and monitors patent applications. SMA counters data protection risks through systematic data proWe make provisions for disputes related to intellectual property, tection management. In addition to standardized processes, this when necessary, if we consider it very likely that such claims might also includes targeted training for those employees who process be successfully enforced against us. personal data, monitoring of all projects where PV system operators’ personal data is processed, and close collaboration with the ­Company’s data protection officer. SMA Solar Technology AG // Annual Report 2018 Risks and Opportunities Report – Combined Management Report 67 Despite meticulously implementing requirements for processes Furthermore, there are opportunities for development of additional and systems, violations of data protection law cannot be ruled out international markets and business areas in both product and completely. SMA’s digitalization strategy, in particular, extends ­service business. the use of personal data, including for the Company’s business models. There are also risks in the increasingly widespread storage Based on the current market situation and the associated possibility and processing of personal data using cloud solutions, where perof market consolidation, the Managing Board also sees opportunimissibility regarding data protection law is disputed. Against the ties from external growth. backdrop of a changing business environment and the necessary development of new sales channels, this risk is becoming increasFor additional details, please refer to the information in the section ingly significant. “Forecast Report” in the Combined Management Report. ENVIRONMENTAL RISKS OVERALL STATEMENT ON THE GROUP’S SMA employs a small amount of hazardous substances during RISK SITUATION production that, in principle, pose a risk to the environment. The comprehensive measures we take in production and in quality Using our Risk Management System, we continue to rate the overmanagement ensure that SMA products are manufactured in a way all situation regarding risks to SMA’s future development as to be that is environmentally friendly and guarantees compliance with manageable and controllable. However, based on the present all environmental regulations. Furthermore, SMA has safeguarded assessment, individual risks still have been identified that, particuitself against certain environmental risks, including by means of larly if they all occurred at once, could significantly impair business insurance solutions. development. The risk profile slightly improved year on year. The increasing digitalization of our business areas, the system and soluFor additional details, please refer to the information in the section tion business and ongoing internationalization of sales activities “Non-Financial Statement” in the Combined Management Report. are expected to make a significant contribution to raising the sales level and to increasing profitability. DESCRIPTION OF SIGNIFICANT Furthermore, SMA will take additional measures to counter the described risks and keep the potential negative effects as small ­OPPORTUNITIES as possible. It is therefore our objective to continue optimizing the Risk and Opportunity Management System to identify potential The SMA Managing Board sees digitalization, system and solution risks even faster, to counteract them and to take advantage of any business, storage applications and integration of storage solutions opportunities that arise. as providing distinct opportunities to strengthen core business. SMA is intensively developing digital business models and system solutions, which it will launch in the near future. In addition, SMA collaborates with several leading manufacturers of stationary battery-storage systems. However, the market success of storage solutions depends largely on storage system prices. Sharp declines in prices for electric battery-storage systems in recent years have improved sales prospects. Annual Report 2018 // SMA Solar Technology AG 68 Combined Management Report – Forecast Report FORECAST REPORT PREAMBLE FUTURE GENERAL ECONOMIC ­CONDITIONS IN THE PHOTOVOLTAICS The Managing Board’s forecasts include all factors with a likeliSECTOR hood of impacting business performance that were known at the time this report was prepared. Not only general market indicators, but also industryand Company-specific circumstances are factored into the forecasts. All assessments cover a period of one year. Renewable Energy Will Supersede ­Conventional Energy Carriers THE GENERAL ECONOMIC SITUATION: Solar and wind power have recently crossed the threshold from mainstream to preferred energy source in many parts of the world. DOWNTURN IN GLOBAL GROWTH This is the statement made by Deloitte experts in their Global Renewable Energy Trends Report, which was published in SeptemThe International Monetary Fund (IMF) expects that in 2019, the ber 2018. Both types of generation are already among the world’s global economy will grow to a lesser extent than last year. In its most cost-effective energy sources, and their potential is far from most recent update to the World Economic Outlook (WEO) in Januexhausted given the continuing decline in production costs, ever ary 2019, the IMF forecasts an increase in global growth of 3.5% better system integration and the development of additional new for the current year (2018: 3.7%). This is due to weaker growth technologies. in many countries in the second half of 2018, the deterioration of the sentiment on the financial markets, growing uncertainty about Experts at Bloomberg New Energy Finance (BNEF) emphasize global trade disputes and concerns about the further development good prospects for renewable energy and photovoltaics in the of the Chinese economy. The slowdown in growth comes, in parmedium term. In their New Energy Outlook 2018, they forecast ticular, from industrialized countries. In 2019, the IMF experts are that by 2050, photovoltaic and wind turbine systems will account anticipating a growth of 2.0% here. They are expecting 4.5% in for around 50% of global power generation. According to the developing and newly industrialized countries. BNEF experts, the production costs of photovoltaics (levelized cost of electricity) will decrease again by more than 70% by 2050, and According to the IMF, the U.S. economy will increase by 2.5% the installed photovoltaic capacity will increase seventeen-fold by in 2019. The organization is expecting a growth of 1.6% for the the same year. eurozone as the prospects for some countries have been revised down, including in Germany, Italy and France. The growth forecast In addition to the low production costs of solar power, the climate of 1.5% for the UK continues to be subject to uncertainty regardchange goals resolved by a large community of countries at the ing the country’s upcoming exit from the EU. In 2019, experts are 2015 UN Climate Change Conference in Paris and the growing elec­forecasting an increase of 6.2% for China due to the ongoing tricity demand, for example due to the ongoing electrification of the trade dispute with the U.S. transport sector, are growth drivers. This will lead to an accelerated expansion of renewable energies. Photovoltaics will benefit the most For 2020, the IMF anticipates global economic growth to be from this trend as solar power is generated in the vicinity of the conslightly higher than in 2019. However, experts warn that both sumer. In its World Energy Outlook 2018, the International Energy annual forecasts could fall short if trade conflicts escalated beyond Agency (IEA) forecasted that installed PV capacity will exceed that of the extent that has already been taken into account. wind power by 2025 and that more photovoltaic capacity than coal capacity will be installed worldwide by 2040. According to the IEA experts, newly installed photovoltaic plants are competitive with new coal-fired power plants almost everywhere. Thanks to technological advancements, the consumer cost of PV systems will decrease further and their appeal will increase as a result. The increasingly affordable storage systems and modern communication technologies combined with services for cross-sector energy management will harmonize energy production and demand. The SMA Managing Board is therefore convinced of the market appeal and has thus positioned SMA to ensure it benefits from future developments. SMA Solar Technology AG // Annual Report 2018 Forecast Report – Combined Management Report 69 Global New PV Installations Increase South American Markets Gain Importance to 109 GW in the Americas Region The SMA Managing Board anticipates a growth in newly installed PV power worldwide of around 6% to approximately 109 GW in For the Americas region, the SMA Managing Board anticipates 2019. The growth is being driven by all regions outside China. The growth in newly installed PV power of around 18% to 20 GW. Managing Board anticipates a market decline in China. Despite Roughly 13 GW of this amount is attributable to the North Amerincreased installation, global investments in system technology for ican markets. Inverter technology investments are expected to traditional photovoltaic applications will stagnate due to a decline increase slightly to almost €1.0 billion (2018: €900 million). in price development. In contrast, investments in system technology While the Managing Board anticipates growth in South American for storage applications (excluding investments in batteries) will markets, it expects marginal downturns in the investments in North increase by approximately €50 million compared to the previous American markets as a result of high price pressure. Here, the year. Overall, the SMA Managing Board therefore expects invest­residential and commercial segments are currently influenced by ment in PV system technology (including system technology for storstrict regulations set forth in the National Electrical Code (NEC). age systems) of around €4.9 billion in 2019 (2018: €4.9 billion). Medium-term prospects are positive for manufacturers that can The Managing Board rates the medium-term prospects for the PV offer products that comply with the new standard. industry as positive. This is due to the lower costs of photovoltaics and the accelerating transformation of the energy sector toward decentralized, digital and connected energy generation. Investments in the Asia-Pacific Region Roughly at Previous Year’s Level Growth Markets in Africa and in the Middle The most important markets in the Asia-Pacific (APAC) region East Drive Demand in EMEA include China, India, Japan and Australia. In Japan and Australia, the installation of PV systems combined with battery-storage sysThe SMA Managing Board anticipates an increase in newly tems to supply energy independently of fossil energy carriers offers installed PV power of approximately 21% to nearly 20 GW in the additional growth potential. The SMA Managing Board estimates Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) region in 2019. This is that new PV installations in China will decline by around 9% and due, in particular, to increased photovoltaic demand in the counreach 40 GW in 2019 (2018: 44 GW). Investments in inverter tries in the Middle East and Africa. According to SMA estimates, technology are expected to fall to €1.1 billion (2018: €1.2 bilinvestments in PV and storage system technology will be on a par lion). For the APAC region, excluding China, the SMA Managing with the previous year at an expected €1.3 billion as a result of Board expects newly installed PV power to increase by approxprice development. Battery-storage systems are gaining imporimately 16% to around 28 GW in 2019 (2018: 24 GW). The tance in European countries, especially in Germany, the UK and growth will be driven, in particular, by the Indian and Australian Italy. In addition to business involving new systems for ­consumption markets. However, high price pressure will largely erode volume of self-generated energy, retrofitting of existing systems with new growth. The SMA Managing Board therefore expects investments inverters and storage systems will also yield high potential in the of approximately €1.5 billion in inverter technology for this region, medium term. For many PV systems, government subsidization will as in the previous year (2018: €1.5 billion). end in the years to come. Self-consumption of solar power is a ­particularly attractive option for the operators of these systems. Annual Report 2018 // SMA Solar Technology AG 70 Combined Management Report – Forecast Report Growth Markets: Energy Management, The SMA Managing Board also sees good growth prospects in the field of smart module technology to increase the functionality Digital Energy Services and Operational and performance of PV modules (module-level power electronics, ­Management MLPE). These technologies include micro inverters and DC optimizers, among others. The SMA Managing Board estimates that The trend to regionalize power supplies is gaining momentum. DC optimizers, in particular, will gain in importance in the years More and more households, cities and companies are becoming to come. This trend is emanating from North America because less dependent on energy fuel imports and rising energy costs by regulatory requirements in the markets there encourage the use having their own PV systems. This will lead to a rise in demand of DC optimizers. for energy storage solutions in the residential, commercial and industrial sectors. In addition, energy will be increasingly distribTechnical management of commercial systems and large-scale PV uted via smart grids to manage electricity demand, avoid conplants is another growth segment. This includes a range of services, sumption peaks and take the strain off utility grids. E-mobility is such as repairs, device replacements as well as visual inspections also expected to become an important pillar of these new energy and maintenance of entire systems. The market in these segments supply structures a few years from now. Integration of electric had an accumulated installed capacity of over 440 GW at the end vehicles will help increase self-consumption of renewable energies of 2018 and will have an expected 540 GW by the end of 2019. and offset fluctuations in the utility grid. Using artificial intelligence, The SMA Managing Board is estimating the addressable market the behavior of decentralized energy consumers and storage share, which is not yet or no longer under contract, at 140 GW ­systems can be adapted to the fluctuating production of electricity in 2019, which corresponds to a potential of at least €1.1 bilfrom renewable energies, thus enabling the overall system to be lion. Prices are calculated yearly per MW and vary significantly optimized. depending on the regions and services included. Against this backdrop, SMA’s Managing Board holds that innovative system technologies that temporarily store solar power and OVERALL STATEMENT FROM THE provide energy management to private households and commercial enterprises offer worthwhile business opportunities. Rising prices ­MANAGING BOARD ON EXPECTED for conventional domestic power and many private households and ­DEVELOPMENT OF THE SMA GROUP companies wanting to drive forward the energy transition by making their contribution to a sustainable and decentralized energy supply are the basis for new business models. Demand for soluManaging Board Anticipates Sales tions that increase self-consumption of solar power is likely to rise, particularly in European markets, the U.S., Australia and Japan. In and Earnings Growth these markets, renewable energies are already taking on a greater share in the electricity supply. In addition, power supply companies On January 24, 2019, the SMA Managing Board published its are increasingly using battery-storage systems to avoid expensive sales and earnings guidance for the current fiscal year for the first grid expansions, stabilize grid frequency and balance fluctuations time. It predicts a sales increase to between €800 million and in the power feed-in from renewable energy sources. The SMA €880 million (2018: €760.9 million). Significant impulses are Managing Board expects the volume of the still fairly new storage anticipated from the positive market development expected in market to be around €600 million in 2019 (excluding investments Europe and America and the revival of the storage market. SMA in batteries). Estimated demand is already included in the specified is well positioned in these areas and will gain additional market development projections for the entire inverter technology market. shares as a result of an even stronger focus on customers and the launch of new products and system solutions. At the same time, In addition to storage technology, digital energy services aimed the SMA Managing Board is implementing further cost reduction at optimizing household and commercial enterprises’ energy costs measures and is thus expecting a significant increase in earnings. and their connection to the energy market are becoming increasThe Managing Board estimates that operating earnings before ingly significant. The SMA Managing Board expects this area to interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) will amount represent an addressable market of approximately €800 million to between €20 million and €50 million (2018: –€69.1 million). in 2019. The market will then grow exponentially in subsequent Depreciation and amortization are expected to amount to approxyears. imately €50 million. On this basis, the Managing Board expects to break even in terms of EBIT in the best case scenario. SMA Solar Technology AG // Annual Report 2018 Forecast Report – Combined Management Report 71 SMA’s business model is not capital-intensive. Capital expenditure Extensive Cost Reduction and Sales (including capitalized development costs) will increase to approximately €60 million in 2019 (2018: €40.3 million), of which Increase Measures Implemented roughly €10 million will be attributable to capitalized development costs. The increase in capital expenditure is primarily attributable to Due to high price pressure in all markets and segments as well the inclusion of leases required under IFRS 16. In 2019, SMA will as the postponement of large-scale PV projects as a result of the also invest again in testing and production facilities for new prodstrong market decline in China and the subsequent internationalizauct generations and building maintenance. The SMA Group’s net tion of Chinese suppliers, the shortage of components and bottle­ working capital is expected to amount to between 19% and 24% necks in battery production, SMA suffered significant sales and of sales (2018: 23.3% of sales). Net cash is expected to be more earnings losses last year. The SMA Managing Board also expects than €300 million (2018: €305.5 million). price pressure to increase in 2019, while delivery bottlenecks for components and batteries have since largely been overcome. For details regarding risks, please refer to the Risks and OpportuniTo quickly and sustainably return SMA to profitability under these ties Report on pages 58 et seq. changes in conditions, the Managing Board at an early stage decided on measures to reduce costs and increase sales, of which implementation started at the beginning of the year. SMA Group Guidance for 2019 at a Glance SMA will sell its production, development and purchasing units in China to local management and withdraw from the Chinese marKey figure Guidance 2019 2018 ket. The measure will significantly reduce fixed costs and increase capacity utilization at the Niestetal/Kassel headquarters. Other Sales in € million 800 to 880 760.9 cost-cutting measures include outsourcing activities that are not part of SMA’s core competencies, increasing automation and reducing EBITDA in € million 20 to 50 –69.1 product platforms to shorten development cycles and increase the Capital expenditure in € million approx. 60 40.3 proportion of components used across the portfolio. Another focus Net working capital in % of sales 19 to 24 23.3 will continue to be on further reducing the cost of sales of existing Net cash in € million >300 305.5 products and introducing new products to the markets at signifiEBIT in € million Break even in the cantly lower costs. best case scenario –151.7 As a result of an even closer collaboration between Development, Sales and Service, SMA will focus more closely on meeting customers’ needs in the future. We will provide the important cusSMA’s sales and earnings depend on global market growth, tomer group of installers with optimal support in their end customer market share and price dynamics. Our global presence and our business by means of targeted partner programs and the delivery comprehensive portfolio of products and solutions for all segments of complete system packages, which, in addition to solar and bat(Residential, Commercial, Utility) enable us to respond quickly tery inverters, include battery storage, energy management and to changing market conditions, offset fluctuations in demand and design software as well as customized services. In the first quarter take advantage of developments in global photovoltaic markets. of 2019, the first packages for private residential PV systems and Its broad product and solution portfolio in all market segments is a commercial applications have already been introduced in the major distinguishing feature for SMA. The SMA Managing Board ­target markets of Germany and Italy. We will continue to expand forecasts the following performance for individual SMA segments our range in this area and further develop SMA into a provider in fiscal year 2019: of ­systems and solutions. Segment Guidance for 2019 at a Glance1 Segment Sales EBIT Home Solutions Constant Up slightly Business Solutions Up significantly Up significantly Large Scale & Project Solutions Up significantly Up significantly 1 The overview is based on the reporting structure applicable starting 2019 which is described on page 26. The comparison includes future sales and earnings growth in the Home Solutions, Business Solutions and Large Scale & Project Solutions segments from the transfer of sales and earnings from the former Storage and Digital Energy segments. Annual Report 2018 // SMA Solar Technology AG 72 Combined Management Report – Forecast Report SMA Positions Itself in Key Future Fields 1 We Will Take Advantage of the Opportunities SMA will also continue to drive forward its position as a leading Posed by Digitalization 1 provider in other important future fields, such as energy management, storage integration, PV system repowering and digital Thanks to our extensive experience in PV system technology, ability business models. As a result of the megatrends of climate change, to quickly implement changes and our numerous strategic partnerdecentralization and digitalization, these areas will become ships, SMA is well prepared for the digitalization of the energy increasingly important in the years to come. industry. As a specialist in complete solutions in the energy sector, we will launch a number of innovations and establish new strateSMA is well positioned to benefit from these trends in all market gic partnerships to take advantage of opportunities that arise from segments and regions. No other competitor has similar internabusiness models as part of the digitalization of the energy industry. tional presence combined with similar extensive technical expertise The energy management platform ennexOS will enable us to cope that encompasses all PV applications. In addition, our total installed with the complexity of the energy system of the future and to geninverter output of around 75 GW worldwide is a particularly good erate considerable added value for our customers. We will build foundation for databased business models, as inverters are the on our unique strengths and design additional system solutions for most suitable sensors for compiling valuable energy data. Our decentralized energy supplies based on renewable energy. We extensive knowledge of managing complex battery-storage systems will be helped in this endeavor by SMA’s extraordinary corporate and linking solar power systems with other energy sectors, such as culture and our motivated employees who make a decisive contriheating, ventilation and cooling technology and e-­­mobility, is an bution to the Company’s long-term success and are therefore also excellent basis for developing future growth potential for ­digital given a share in SMA’s financial success. energy solutions. Niestetal, March 5, 2019 Our subsidiary coneva develops white label solutions for public utility companies, which integrate both prosumers and traditional SMA Solar Technology AG energy customers of utility companies into the world of digital The Managing Board energy and enable them to use energy simply and cost-effectively. The individual solutions for commercial customers range from monitoring energy flows and optimizing energy costs across all sectors to matching supply and demand on the energy management platform ennexOS developed by SMA. coneva has already launched and implemented its first successful projects in both segments. The range of services offered by SMA Energy Data Services was presented at the E-world trade fair in February 2019. Based on real-time data from more than 1.5 million devices registered on the SMA energy data platform, SMA offers customized solutions in the areas of network operation and planning, marketing of solar power and energy management for grid operators, energy traders, direct marketers and forecasting service providers. 1 T his section is not a mandatory component of the management report as defined in Section 315 HGB in conjunction with GAS 20, and therefore not a subject of the financial audit. SMA Solar Technology AG // Annual Report 2018 Other Elements of the Combined Management Report – Combined Management Report 73 OTHER ELEMENTS OF THE COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT The following sections are elements of the Combined Management Report: →→ T he Corporate Governance Statement in accordance with ­Sections 289a and 315d HGB starting on page 15 →→ Information Concerning Takeovers starting on page 18 →→ The Remuneration Report starting on page 20 Annual Report 2018 // SMA Solar Technology AG CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL ­STATEMENTS 76 INCOME STATEMENT SMA GROUP 77 STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME SMA GROUP 78 BALANCE SHEET SMA GROUP 80 STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS SMA GROUP 81 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY SMA GROUP 82 NOTES SMA GROUP 102 16. Cash and Cash Equivalents 102 17. Assets and Asset Groups Held for Sale 103 18. Shareholders’ Equity 82 GENERAL INFORMATION 104 19. Provisions 82 1. Basics 104 20. Financial Liabilities 84 2. Accounting Principles and Amendments 104 21. Trade Payables to Accounting Standards 105 22. Other Financial Liabilities 91 3. Segment Reporting 105 23. Other Liabilities 106 24. Additional Disclosures Relating to ­Financial Instruments 94 NOTES TO THE INCOME STATEMENT 108 25. Obligations Under Leases and Other SMA GROUP ­Financial Obligations 94 4. Other Operating Income and Expenses 109 26. Contingencies 94 5. Employee and Temporary Employee 109 27. Cash and Cash Equivalents Reconciliation ­Benefits 95 6. Financial Result 95 7. Income Taxes 109 OTHER DISCLOSURES 96 8. Earnings per Share 109 28. Events After the Balance Sheet Date 109 29. Related Party Disclosures 111 30. Objectives and Methods Concerning 97 NOTES TO THE BALANCE SHEET SMA GROUP ­Financial Risk Management 97 9. Intangible Assets 113 31. Auditor’s Fees 98 10. Fixed Assets 113 32. Declaration on the German Corporate 99 11. Investments in Associates Governance Code in Accordance With 100 12. Investment Property Section 161 AktG 100 13. Inventories 113 33. Consolidated Financial Statements 101 14. Trade Receivables and Other Receivables 102 15. Other Financial Assets Due to Tax ­Authorities 76 Consolidated Financial Statements – Income Statement INCOME STATEMENT SMA GROUP in €’000 Note 2018 2017 Sales 3 760,934 891,046 Cost of sales 1 688,856 691,492 Gross profit 72,078 199,554 Selling expenses 52,786 48,227 Research and development expenses 68,304 64,554 General administrative expenses 55,244 54,086 Other operating income 4 35,451 49,822 Other operating expenses 82,905 38,412 thereof impairments according to IFRS 9 11,918 711 Operating profit (EBIT) –151,710 44,097 Result from at equity-accounted investments –13,134 –1,740 thereof impairments –11,297 0 Financial income 2,125 4,842 Financial expenses 3,662 3,355 Financial result 6 –14,671 –253 Profit before income taxes –166,381 43,844 Income taxes 7 9,106 13,407 Profit from continuing operations –175,487 30,437 Profit from discontinued operation 0 –289 Consolidated net result –175,487 30,148 of which attributable to shareholders of SMA AG –175,487 30,148 Earnings per share, basic/diluted (in €) 8 –5.06 0.87 thereof from continuing operations (in €) –5.06 0.88 thereof from discontinued operation (in €) 0.00 –0.01 Number of ordinary shares (in thousands) 34,700 34,700 1 Thereof extraordinary impairment loss for development projects of €29.5 million (2017: €0.2 million) SMA Solar Technology AG // Annual Report 2018 Statement of Comprehensive Income – Consolidated Financial Statements 77 STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME SMA GROUP in €’000 Note 2018 2017 Consolidated net result –175,487 30,148 Unrealized gains (+)/losses (–) from currency translation of foreign subsidiaries 597 –5,070 Changes recognized outside profit or loss (currency translation differences) 1 597 –5,070 Cash flow hedges before taxes 0 14,910 Deferred taxes related to cash flow hedges 0 –4,562 Cash flow hedges after income taxes 1 0 10,348 Overall comprehensive result 1 –174,890 35,426 of which attributable to shareholders of SMA AG –174,890 35,426 1 All items of other comprehensive income may be reclassified to profit or loss. Annual Report 2018 // SMA Solar Technology AG 78 Consolidated Financial Statements – Balance Sheet BALANCE SHEET SMA GROUP in €’000 Note 2018/12/31 2017/12/31 ASSETS Intangible assets 9 36,351 70,931 Fixed assets 10 198,884 212,552 Investment property 12 16,212 16,979 Other financial investments 2 2 Investments in associates 11 0 13,134 Deferred taxes 7 31,928 44,658 Non-current assets 283,377 358,256 Inventories 13 193,795 164,983 Trade receivables 14 108,375 160,001 Other financial assets (total) 15 185,379 248,546 Cash equivalents with a duration of more than 3 months and asset management 177,509 225,422 Rent deposits and cash on hand pledged as collaterals 3,364 9,853 Remaining other financial assets 4,506 13,272 Receivables from tax authorities (total) 36,285 38,328 Claims for income tax refunds 7 20,637 20,476 Claims for VAT refunds 14 15,648 17,852 Other receivables 14 7,469 10,061 Cash and cash equivalents 16 142,637 234,853 673,939 856,772 Assets classified as held for sale 17 31,952 1,180 Current assets 705,892 857,952 Total assets 989,269 1,216,208 SMA Solar Technology AG // Annual Report 2018 Balance Sheet – Consolidated Financial Statements 79 in €’000 Note 2018/12/31 2017/12/31 LIABILITIES Share capital 34,700 34,700 Capital reserves 119,200 119,200 Retained earnings 270,582 457,616 SMA Solar Technology AG shareholders’ equity 18 424,482 611,516 Provisions 1 19 65,657 91,427 Financial liabilities 2 20 15,013 18,095 Other liabilities 1 (total) 163,835 163,410 Contract liabilities 23 161,769 159,454 Other financial liabilities 22 0 532 Remaining other liabilities 23 2,066 3,424 Deferred taxes 14 10 12,287 Non-current liabilities 3 244,515 285,219 Provisions 1 19 91,368 64,622 Financial liabilities 2 20 5,402 2,725 Trade payables 110,851 130,433 Income tax liabilities 14 4,106 12,152 Other liabilities (total) 1 77,220 109,541 Human Resources department 23 15,289 24,062 Contract liabilities (prepayments received) 23 13,928 26,658 Contract liabilities (other) 23 38,322 34,284 Other financial liabilities (current) 22 741 15,388 Remaining other liabilities (current) 23 8,940 9,149 288,947 319,473 Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale 31,325 0 Current liabilities 4 320,272 319,473 Total equity and liabilities 989,269 1,216,208 Total cash (in € million) 324 470 Cash and cash equivalents with a duration of more than 3 months and asset management + rent deposits and cash on hand pledged as collaterals Net cash (in € million) 305 450 Total cash – current and non-current financial liabilities 1 Not interest-bearing 2 Includes not-interest-bearing current and non-current derivatives amounting to €2.0 million (2017: €0.4 million) 3 In the previous year’s balance sheet, other non-current liabilities” include “Remaining other liabilities” (€6,893k) and “Accrual item for extended warranties” (€155,985k). The “Accrual item for extended warranties” was renamed “Contract liabilities” in the financial year. Furthermore, in the previous year column “Remaining other liabilities” (€3,469k) were reclassified to “Contract liabilities”. 4 In the previous year’s balance sheet, “Other financial liabilities” (€19,454k) and “Remaining other liabilities” (€39,367k) were reported under “Other current liabilities”. In the Annual Report, €4,066k of the “Other financial liabilities” and €30,218k “Remaining other liabilities” are summarized under “Other contract liabilities” in the previous year’s column. Annual Report 2018 // SMA Solar Technology AG 80 Consolidated Financial Statements – Statement of Cash Flows STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS SMA GROUP in €’000 Note 2018 2017 Consolidated net result –175,487 30,438 Income taxes 9,106 13,407 Financial result 14,671 253 Depreciation and amortization of fixed assets and intangible assets 82,610 53,199 Change in provisions 975 –20,994 Result from the disposal of assets 803 527 Change in non-cash expenses/revenue 39,547 378 Interest received 1,412 4,023 Interest paid –882 –1,209 Income tax paid –12,144 4,113 Gross cash flow –39,389 84,134 Change in inventories –57,862 –2,197 Change in trade receivables 39,458 3,661 Change in trade payables –19,581 21,530 Change in other net assets/other non-cash transaction 23,106 9,635 Net cash flow from operating activities –54,268 116,763 Payments for investments in fixed assets –20,234 –13,387 Proceeds from the disposal of fixed assets 863 1,429 Payments for investments in intangible assets –20,091 –19,808 Proceeds from the disposal of intangible assets 0 24 Proceeds from the disposal of available for sale assets net of cash 0 16,624 Proceeds from the disposal of securities and other financial assets 118,553 49,000 Payments for the acquisition of securities and other financial assets –71,732 –115,050 Net cash flow from investing activities 7,359 –81,168 Redemption of financial liabilities –2,376 –2,477 Dividends paid by SMA Solar Technology AG –12,145 –9,022 Net cash flow from financing activities –14,521 –11,499 Net increase/decrease in cash and cash equivalents –61,430 24,096 Changes due to exchange rate effects –93 –5,367 Cash and cash equivalents as of January 1 234,853 216,124 Less cash and cash equivalents of available for sale assets 30,693 0 Cash and cash equivalents as of December 31 27 142,637 234,853 SMA Solar Technology AG // Annual Report 2018 Statement of Changes in Equity – Consolidated Financial Statements 81 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY SMA GROUP Difference Other Consolidated Share Capital from currency Cash flow retained shareholders’ in €’000 Note capital r­ eserves translation hedges earnings equity Shareholders' equity as of January 1, 2017 34,700 119,200 8,750 –10,348 432,810 585,112 Consolidated net result 30,148 30,148 Other comprehensive income after tax 18 –5,070 10,348 0 5,278 Overall result 35,426 Dividend payments of SMA Solar Technology AG –9,022 –9,022 Shareholders' equity as of December 31, 2017 34,700 119,200 3,680 0 453,936 611,516 Shareholders' equity as of January 1, 2018 34,700 119,200 3,680 0 453,936 611,516 Consolidated net result –175,487 –175,487 Other comprehensive income after tax 18 597 0 0 597 Overall result –174,890 Dividend payments of SMA Solar Technology AG –12,145 –12,145 Shareholders' equity as of December 31, 2018 34,700 119,200 4,277 0 266,304 424,481 Annual Report 2018 // SMA Solar Technology AG 82 Consolidated Financial Statements – Notes NOTES SMA GROUP GENERAL INFORMATION and maintenance services for photovoltaic power plants (O&M business). Another business segment is digital services for the future energy supply. 1. Basics More detailed information on the segments is provided in section 3. The Consolidated Financial Statements of SMA Solar Technology AG for the year ending December 31, 2018, were prepared in compliance with the International Financial Reporting Standards 1.1. CONSOLIDATION PRINCIPLES (IFRS) as adopted by the EU, as well as in compliance with the regulations of Section 315e of the German Commercial Code (HGB). All domestic and foreign subsidiaries in which SMA Solar TechThe requirements of the standards applied were met completely nology AG, directly or indirectly, has the option of controlling the and provide a fair view of the net assets, financial position and financial and operating policies are included in the Consolidated results of operations of SMA Solar Technology AG and its subsidiFinancial Statements of the SMA Group. The included statements ary companies included in the scope of consolidation (hereinafter: are prepared based on uniform principles. SMA Group or the Group). An associate is a company over which the Group exercises signifiThe registered office of the Company is Sonnenallee 1, 34266 cant influence. Significant influence means the option to participate Niestetal, Germany. The Company is registered at the ­commercial in the financial and operating policy decisions of the company in court of Kassel under the trade register number HRB 3972. which the investment is held, but not to exercise control or joint Shares of SMA Solar Technology AG have been traded ­publicly ­control over the decision-making processes. since June 27, 2008. They are listed in the Prime Standard of the ­Frankfurt Stock Exchange. Since September 24, 2018, the Non-controlling interests are recognized at the proportionate ­Company has been listed in the SDAX. value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. They are not accounted for at fair value. The Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared using the amortized acquisition cost principle. Exceptions to this are provisions, deferred taxes, derivative financial instruments and available-­ 1.2. SCOPE OF CONSOLIDATION for-sale securities. Investment holdings within the scope of consolidation as of DecemThe income statement is classified according to the cost of sales ber 31, 2018, changed in comparison with December 31, 2017, method. The Consolidated Financial Statements were prepared in as a result of the disposal of SMA Solar Technology Portugal, euro. Unless indicated otherwise, all amounts stated are in euro ­Unipessoal Lda. In fiscal year 2018, there were two additions rounded to whole thousands (€’000) or millions (€ million), rounddue to the founding of the companies SMA Solar Technology de ing differences may arise as a result. ­México S. de R.L. de C.V and emerce GmbH. Zeversolar New Energy GmbH was renamed coneva GmbH and changed its busiThe Managing Board of SMA Solar Technology AG authorized the ness purpose. coneva GmbH focuses on the development and Consolidated Financial Statements on March 5, 2019, for submisperformance of services in connection with energy generation, storsion to the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board has the duty age, transportation and consumption, and related technology platof reviewing the Consolidated Financial Statements and declaring forms. The 10% investment in IdE Institut dezentrale Energietechwhether it approves the Consolidated Financial Statements. nologien gemeinnützige GmbH was disposed of in 2017. With the exception of Tigo Energy, Inc., all companies within the scope of SMA Solar Technology AG (SMA) and its subsidiaries (SMA consolidation are fully consolidated. Tigo Energy, Inc. is recogGroup) develop, produce and sell solar inverters, transformnized as an associate in the Consolidated Financial Statements ers, chokes and monitoring systems for solar power systems. In according to the equity method. The UNIKIMS GmbH entitled to addition, the Company offers intelligent energy management investments in the list of shareholdings is not consolidated due to ­solutions and services, including the acquisition of operations its subordinate importance. SMA Solar Technology AG // Annual Report 2018 Notes – Consolidated Financial Statements 83 The scope of consolidation of the SMA Group is presented in the complete list of shareholdings shown below pursuant to ­Section 313 of the German Commercial Code: Name of parent company Registered office Share in capital Consolidation SMA Solar Technology AG Niestetal, Germany F Shares in affiliated companies coneva GmbH Munich, Germany 100% F emerce GmbH Fritzlar, Germany 100% F SMA America Holdings, LLC Denver, U.S. 100% F SMA America Production, LLC Denver, U.S. 100% 3 F SMA Solar Technology America LLC Rocklin, U.S. 100% 3 F SMA Australia Pty. Ltd. North Sydney, Australia 100% F SMA Benelux BVBA Mechelen, Belgium 100% 1 F SMA France S.A.S. Saint Priest, France 100% F SMA Ibérica Tecnología Solar, S.L. Sant Cugat del Vallès ­(Barcelona), Spain 100% F SMA Immo Beteiligungs GmbH Niestetal, Germany 100% F SMA Immo GmbH & Co. KG Niestetal, Germany 100% F SMA Italia S.r.l. Milan, Italy 100% F SMA Japan Kabushiki Kaisha Tokyo, Japan 100% F SMA Magnetics Sp.z o.o Zabierzów, Poland 100% F SMA Middle East Limited Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates 100% F SMA New Energy Technology (Jiangsu) Co., Ltd. Suzhou, China 100% F Australia Zeversolar New Energy Pty. Ltd. Sydney, Australia 100% 3 F SMA New Energy Technology (Yangzhong) Co., Ltd. Yangzhong, China 100% 3 F Zeversolar GmbH Munich, Germany 100% 3 F SMA New Energy Technology (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Shanghai, China 100% F SMA Solar Beteiligungs GmbH Niestetal, Germany 100% F SMA Solar India Private Limited Mumbai, India 100% 1 F SMA Solar Technology Beteiligungs GmbH Niestetal, Germany 100% F SMA Solar Technology Canada Inc. Vancouver, Canada 100% F SMA Solar Technology de México S. de R.L. de C.V Guadalajara, Mexico 100% F SMA Solar Technology South Africa (Pty.) Ltd. Cape Town, South Africa 100% F SMA Solar (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Bangkok, Thailand 100% 2 F SMA Solar UK Ltd. Banbury, Great Britain 100% F SMA South America SpA Santiago, Chile 100% F SMA Brasil Tecnologia Ferroviária e solar Ltda. Itupeva, Brazil 100% 3 F SMA Sub-Sahara Production Pty. Ltd. Cape Town, South Africa 100% F SMA Sunbelt Energy GmbH Niestetal, Germany 100% F SMA Technology Hellas AE Athens, Greece 100% 1 F SMA Technology Korea Co., Ltd. Seoul, South Korea 100% F Investments UNIKIMS GmbH Kassel, Germany 9.6% N Tigo Energy, Inc. Los Gatos, USA 28.27% R F = fully consolidated; N = not consolidated; R = recognized at equity 1 0.1% are held by SMA Solar Technology Beteiligungs GmbH. 2 0.001% are held by SMA Solar Technology Beteiligungs GmbH and 0.001% are held by SMA Solar UK Ltd. 3 Indirect investment Annual Report 2018 // SMA Solar Technology AG 84 Consolidated Financial Statements – Notes SMA Solar Technology AG, SMA Magnetics Sp.z.o.o, SMA New 2. Accounting Principles and Amendments Energy Technology (Jiangsu) Co., Ltd. and SMA New Energy Technology (Yangzhong) Co., Ltd. are manufacturing companies. The to Accounting Standards others are sales and service companies. 2.1. NEW IASB ACCOUNTING STANDARDS AND INTER­ All SMA Group companies prepare their annual Financial StatePRETATIONS TO BE APPLIED FOR THE FIRST TIME IN THE ments as of December 31, with the exception of our Indian subsidFISCAL YEAR iary SMA Solar India Private Limited, which prepares its Financial Statements as of March 31 due to statutory regulations. IFRS 9 Financial Instruments The companies SMA Immo GmbH & Co. KG (Section 264b ­German Commercial Code – HGB) and SMA Solar UK Ltd. (Section 479A SMA applied IFRS 9 for the first time to the fiscal year starting on Companies Act 2006) exercised exemption clauses regarding the January 1, 2018. This first-time application was retrospective. There preparation and publication of Financial Statements. were no amendments. In accordance with the transitional provisions, SMA has chosen the option of continuing to present comparative information pursuant to IAS 39. 1.3. TRANSLATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTO ­FOREIGN CURRENCIES A standardized model is used to determine the measurement categories for financial assets and financial liabilities in accordance The Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in euro, which with IFRS 9. In the classification of financial assets, a distinction is the reporting currency of the Group. Each company within the is made between the measurement categories “Amortized Cost,” Group defines its own functional currency, which is normally the “Fair Value through other Comprehensive Income” and “Fair Value local currency. The items contained in the Financial Statements of through Profit or Loss.” Equivalent categories can be used for finaneach company are valued using this functional currency. cial liabilities. For financial liabilities, categories “at Amortized Cost” and “at Fair Value through Profit or Loss” may occur. All Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated iniitems are categorized in accordance with IFRS 9. With respect to tially into the functional currency by applying the spot rate valid SMA, there will be no changes to balance sheet disclosures other at the time of the transaction. On each subsequent due date, than the changes to the categories for classification, reference to monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies section 24, Financial Instruments. Financial assets whose cash flows are translated into the functional currency by applying the spot consist solely of interest and repayments are classified accordrate valid on that day. All translation differences are recognized ing to the business model. Financial assets held within a business through profit or loss. model intended to hold the asset in order to collect the contractual cash flows are measured at amortized cost. The management of Assets and liabilities of subsidiaries preparing their balance sheets these business models is based on the interest rate structure and in a currency other than the euro are translated using the current the credit risk. Currently, no assets are held in business models that exchange rate on the balance sheet date. Items on the income provide for a disposal and would therefore be measured at fair statement are translated periodically using the average rate of the value through profit or loss. Financial assets that contain only interrelevant month. The equity components of subsidiaries are transest and repayments but are not allocated to any of the aforemenlated at the corresponding historical exchange rate applicable tioned business models would be measured at fair value through upon accrual. Any resulting translation differences are recorded profit or loss. As such, reconciliation of book values from Decemunder other income within equity as adjustment items for foreign ber 31, 2017 to January 1, 2018, as provided for by IAS 39 and currency translation or in shares of other shareholders. The accumuIFRS 9 will not be presented. There were no changes to the evalualated amount recorded in equity is recognized through profit or loss tion standards. upon the disposal of the foreign subsidiary concerned. Minor effects have also arisen, particularly from the new impairment provisions according to IFRS 9. For the majority of the financial instruments that come under the impairment regulations at SMA, trade receivables without a significant financing component, the standard mandatorily stipulates a simplified two-level model. Under this model, a risk provision in the amount of the expected losses over the remaining term is recognized for all instruments, irrespective of their credit quality. The amount of the risk provision SMA Solar Technology AG // Annual Report 2018 Notes – Consolidated Financial Statements 85 at level 2 is calculated based on a flat rate. This rate is applied to deliveries are recognized as contractual liabilities (prepayments the entire SMA Group, as there are no different default rates for received) within other liabilities. For transportation services, which different regions or business units. As a result of the application of constitute a performance obligation in their own right, revenue IFRS 9, the rate has improved from 0.47% to 0.44%. When deteris recognized on a time proportion basis. Sales revenue from mining the default rate, a looking-forward component is taken into services, provided these services are not rendered over time, is account, in the sense that SMA is in a very volatile environment recognized at the point in time at which the obligation to the cusand, despite all market fluctuations and changes, there were no tomer is satisfied in accordance with IFRS 15.38. Sales from sersignificant influences on the default rates of the receivables. Due to vices recognized at a point in time are generated by SMA when the management assessment, no change is expected in the future. commissioning large-scale projects and carrying out repair orders. Revenue from services rendered over time, including extended As described, trade receivables are all allocated to level 2 on warranty or service/maintenance contracts, is recognized over acquisition and are transferred to level 3 if there are objective the contractual periods to which these services relate according to indications of impairment. Despite the general focus on internal risk the output-based customer perspective. The output-based method management, it is assumed that a default event occurs at the latest leads to an accurate presentation as it best represents the value of when a receivable is 90 days past due. However, this assumption the goods and services transferred in the context of the constant can be disproved based on suitable information. Because highcommitment to the customer. Cash inflows received in advance do risk receivables are collateralized and high-risk customers receive not contain any material finance components. They are the result services only if they pay in advance, the level of bad debt losses of a number of end-customer contracts each with small individual in the Group is not significant (less than 1% of receivables). For contract volumes. With regard to the delivery of goods, in the Resithis reason, a default event is not assumed until the receivable dential and Commercial segments full payment is made on delivery is 180 days past due. depending on the transfer of control, while in the Utility segment advance payments on deliveries are often made in addition to Receivables are impaired after being overdue. For all other finanthis. These are recognized in revenue upon full delivery dependcial instruments (cash and cash equivalents, debt securities [noning on the transfer of control. Services provided over time, such as market-traded], rent collateral and pledges, time deposits and other extended warranties in the Residential and Commercial segments, short-term deposits [> 3 months], non-current assets) that fall under are paid mainly in full in advance. They are reported as non-­ the impairment requirements of IFRS 9, the general Model applied., current contractual obligations and recognized in revenue over the Additional information on default risk and expected credit losses of contractual term. Service and maintenance contracts in the Utility the relevant balance sheet items (cash and cash equivalents, bonds segment are paid beforehand over shorter periods, generally for [non-market-traded], rental collateral and pledges, time deposits a period of 12 months. Over this period, they are recognized in and other short-term deposits [> 3 months], contractual assets) is revenue in line with the passage of time. There were no significant waived for materiality reasons. changes in the balances of assets and contractual obligations as defined in IFRS 15.118 in 2018. Depending on the region and product group, SMA products are sold with a factory warranty of Application of IFRS 15 Revenue From Contracts With Customers 2, 5, 10 or 25 years. The factory warranty includes the statutory warranty and grants the right to an exchange or replacement in SMA has applied the new IFRS 15 as the central standard for revethe case of defects that are not caused by external factors. nue recognition since January 1, 2018. The retrospective modifying method is used, which means that no contract modifications have There are no general rights of return for purchased products. Transbeen carried out. SMA applies the 5-step approach according to action prices are not adjusted retroactively. IFRS 15 to different sources of revenue. If necessary, the customer contracts are divided into separate performance obligations. The Customer bonuses in the Residential segment are reported as conassessment of whether a performance obligation will be satisfied at tractual liabilities. The reported sales revenue and impairment on a point in time or over time is also contractual. receivables relate exclusively to items from contracts with customers as defined in IFRS 15. Contract assets arising from contracts SMA recognizes revenue from goods deliveries with transfer of with customers are currently reported under the balance sheet item control to the customer at a point in time in line with contractually “Other financial assets” (December 31, 2018: €0.04 million). agreed Incoterms. This policy is applied to all products across all segments. Transfer of control is also based on the agreed Incoterm for part deliveries in customer projects. Prepayments for part Annual Report 2018 // SMA Solar Technology AG 86 Consolidated Financial Statements – Notes In the case of customer contracts under which multiple performance IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts obligations recognized at different points in time are sold for a single transaction price or a discount has to be assigned, there is The new IFRS 17 standard was published in May 2017. It has yet an allocation of the transaction price. This allocation is based on to be endorsed for use in the EU. The standard will not be applied the ratio between the individual sale prices, which are determined by the Group. based on historical prices for comparable customers in ­comparable circumstances. If different options are available, the probability of their being exercised is assessed based on comparable cases. Amendments to the references in the conceptual framework As of December 31, 2018, sales of €2.1 million were deferred; these will be recognized in revenue over a period of five years. The Amendments apply to IFRS 2, IFRS 3, IFRS 6, IFRS 14, IAS 1, These sales were generated in connection with a temporary camIAS 8, IAS 34, IAS 37, IAS 38, IFRIC 12, IFRIC 19, IFRIC 20, paign in which products were offered together with the promise of IFRIC 22 and SIC-32. The amendments have to be applied for the an extended warranty, with no separate fee being charged for the first time for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2020. extended warranty. As of December 31, 2018, the total amount Earlier application is permitted. It has yet to be endorsed for use of outstanding performance obligations came to €578.0 million in the EU. (December 31, 2017: €651.4 million). Amendments to IFRS 3 Business Combinations STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS THAT HAVE BEEN ­PUBLISHED BUT NOT YET MANDATORY The IASB has published “Definition of a Business Operation.” This definition is intended to solve the problems that arise in connecIn its 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements, SMA did not tion with assessing whether a company has acquired a business apply the following accounting standards, which had already been operation or a group of assets. The amendments are applicable to adopted by the IASB but were not yet mandatory for this fiscal year. business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the start of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after They will be implemented in the year of compulsory first-time January 1, 2020. ­application if they are implemented and applied in the EU. Earlier application is not permitted. Amendments to IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements and IAS 28 Investments in Associates IFRS 16 Leases These amendments clarify that in transactions involving associates IFRS 16 replaces the existing IAS 17 and accompanying interor joint ventures, the extent of gain or loss recognition depends pretations. IFRS 16 applies to reporting periods beginning on or on whether the assets sold or contributed constitute a business. after January 1, 2019. For lessees, the new standard provides an Mandatory application of these amendments has been postponed accounting model that does not differentiate between operating indefinitely in the EU. and finance leases. In the future, most leases will thus have to be recognized on the balance sheet. For lessors, the regulations of IAS 17 Leases are largely unchanged, so the distinction between Amendments to IAS 19 Plan Amendment, Curtailment finance and operating leases has to be retained, resulting in difor Settlement ferent consequences for accounting. The Group will mainly be affected as a lessee. At present, the Group has around 600 rental In February 2018, the IASB published amendments to IAS 19 and lease contracts. Only a small portion of them constitute leases Employee Benefits. The amendments relate to accounting for an of low-value assets in accordance with IFRS 16.B3-B8. The “rightamendment, curtailment or settlement of a defined benefit pension of-use-method” entails capitalizing rights of use and correspondplan. The new provisions are aimed at standardizing the accounting recognition of lease liabilities within a range of €20 million to ing practice, which is currently inconsistent in some cases, and €25 million. The equity ratio and gearing will be affected accordproviding information that is more relevant to decision-making. The ingly. Within the income statement, IFRS 16 will lead to adjustment standard will not be applied by the Group. between other operating expenses, depreciation and amortization as well as financial expenses, and have a positive effect on EBIT and EBITDA. SMA Solar Technology AG // Annual Report 2018 Notes – Consolidated Financial Statements 87 Amendments to IAS 1 and IAS 8 Definition of Material Any gains or losses from derecognition of intangible assets are determined as the difference between the net disposal proceeds On October 31, 2018, the Board published amendments to the and the book value of the asset. They are recognized in profit definition of materiality in IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Stateor loss in the period in which the asset is derecognized. ments and IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors. The amendment is aimed at avoiding duplication Fixed assets are valued at cost of acquisition or sales less straightof the definition of materiality in IAS 1 and IAS 8. The amendments line depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. Borrowing have to be applied for the first time for annual periods beginning costs are added to cost of acquisition and sales in the event of on or after January 1, 2020. Earlier application is permitted. qualifying assets. The cost of replacement of a part of a fixed asset is included in the book value of this asset when incurred if the criteria for recognition are fulfilled. When major inspections are carried 2.2. DISCLOSURES TO THE ACCOUNTING AND out, the costs are capitalized according to the book value of the VALUATION POLICIES relevant assets if the criteria for recognition are met. All other maintenance and repair costs are expensed immediately. Intangible assets acquired with a finite useful life are valued at acquisition costs. They decline via straight-line amortization over The depreciation period is based on the expected useful life. their useful lives and accumulated impairments. Depreciation is recognized under the expense category that corresponds to the function of assets in the enterprise. Scheduled The costs for internally generated intangible assets are recognized straight-line depreciation is based on the following useful life of in the period in which they accrue, with the exception of developassets: ment costs that can be capitalized. Useful life Research and development expenses include all expenses that Leasehold improvements 10 years can be attributed directly to research or development activities. Buildings 25 to 35 years Expenditure on research is recognized as expenditure in the period Technical equipment and machinery 6 to 8 years in which it is incurred. The development costs of a project are capiBusiness and office equipment 5 to 10 years talized as an intangible asset only after SMA can demonstrate both the technical and economic feasibility of the intangible asset so that it will be available for internal use or sale and has the intention to complete the intangible asset and either use or sell it. Development A fixed asset is derecognized either upon its disposal or when no costs are recognized at cost pursuant to IAS 36.66, less accumufurther economic benefit is expected from the further use or sale of lated amortization and impairment. Amortization commences at the asset. Gains or losses from derecognition of the asset are deterthe end of the development phase and from the moment the asset mined as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the can be used. Amortization is effected over the period during which book value of the asset. This difference is recognized through profit future benefit will be expected. No borrowing costs are capitalized or loss in the income statement as other operating income or other in connection with the activation of development costs. In addition, operating expenses when the asset is sold. there are currently no qualifying assets for which borrowing costs are capitalized. The residual values, useful lives and depreciation methods are reviewed at the end of each fiscal year and adjusted if necessary. Company acquisitions in previous years resulted in low goodwill. See also section “9. Intangible Assets”. There were no other Fixed assets that are held to generate rental income are recogintangible assets with an indefinite useful life in the periods under nized as “Investment Property” in accordance with IAS 40. Investreview. ment properties must be capitalized at cost on acquisition. SMA recognizes investment properties at amortized cost. An opinion Intangible assets with finite useful lives are amortized on a on the determination of the market value has been drawn up. The straight-line basis over a period of three to five years, ­including ­market value of the property was determined on the basis of a tax development projects; software and licenses. Patents are written off valuation method. The main input parameters are the discount rate, over ten years. In the case of intangible assets with a finite useful estimated vacancy and the development of market rents and the life, the period of amortization and the ­amortization method are method reflects a level 3 rating in the sense of IFRS 13. The market reviewed at least at the end of each fiscal year. Any adjustments value corresponds to the highest and best benefit of the property. to the amortization period that become necessary because of The market value thus measured is €16.4 million (2017: €23.7 milchanges in the expected useful life are accounted for as changes lion). Please refer to the explanations in “12. Investment roperty”. to estimates. Amortization is recorded under the expense category that corresponds to the function of the intangible asset in the enterprise. Annual Report 2018 // SMA Solar Technology AG 88 Consolidated Financial Statements – Notes Fixed assets that constitute non-current assets held for sale and resulted based on scheduled depreciation without recognizing an discontinued operations are classified as held for sale according to impairment. The addition is recognized in the income statement. IFRS 5. The condition is that the associated book value is realized Impairment on goodwill is not reversed. This was not the case in the largely through disposal and not through continued use. On the year under review or in the previous year. date of classification, these assets are measured at the lower value of book value and fair value less costs to sell, and no longer depreInventories are measured at the lower value of the cost of acquiciated or amortized. sition or sales and net realizable value. The costs of acquisition or production include all costs incurred during acquisition and proImpairment of intangible assets and fixed assets: On each duction as well as other costs incurred in bringing the inventories balance sheet date, the Group reviews whether there are any to their present location and condition. Borrowing costs are not indicators that the value of an asset might be impaired. If such inditaken into account here. In general, when determining the acquicators exist or if an annual impairment test of an asset is required, sition costs of raw materials, consumables and supplies, moving the Group determines the recoverable amount of the relevant average prices are used. The cost of sales of work in progress and asset. The recoverable amount of an asset is its fair value less finished goods is determined using detailed cost accounting. The costs to sell or its value in use, whichever is higher. As a rule, the net realizable value consists of the estimated sales proceeds that recoverable amount will be determined for each individual asset. can be achieved through the ordinary course of business, less the If it proves impossible to determine the recoverable amount for estimated costs incurred up to completion and the estimated necindividual assets because the cash flows depend on those of other essary selling expenses. Value adjustments are particularly made assets, the cash flows are determined for the next higher group of in the case of a lack of standardization, discontinued products and assets (cash-generating unit). In assessing the value in use, the estisurplus stocks of non-product-specific materials. A time horizon of mated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using 36 months is used to carry out range analyses. If the reasons that a ­pretax discount rate that reflects current market assessments have resulted in an impairment of inventories no longer exist, a regarding the interest effect and the risks specific to the asset. To ­corresponding addition is made. determine the fair value less costs to sell, an adequate valuation model is used. This is based on valuation multipliers, market prices As a rule, financial instruments are reported as soon as an entity of quoted shares or other available indicators. of the SMA Group becomes a contracting party to a financial instrument. A financial instrument is a contract that gives rise to If the book value of an asset or a cash-generating unit exceeds both a financial asset held by one entity and a financial liability or the recoverable amount, impairment is recognized for the asset or an equity instrument held by another entity. If the trading date and the cash-generating unit in question, and it is written down to the the settlement date of financial assets are different, then the settlerecoverable amount. Impairment costs are recognized under the ment date is decisive for initial recognition. The date of contract expense category that corresponds to the function of the impaired conclusion is only decisive in the case of financial derivatives. asset in the enterprise. In fiscal year 2018, impairment on development projects amounting to €29.5 million (2017: €0.0 million) was Financial assets and financial liabilities are measured at fair value taken into account. See also section 9, Intangible Assets. upon their initial recognition. Financial instruments are also designated to measurement categories in accordance with IFRS 9. For assets, a test is carried out on each balance sheet date to Further explanations are provided in section 24, Additional Disclodetermine whether a previously recognized impairment loss has sures Relating to Financial Instruments. If permitted and necessary, ceased to exist or has diminished. Additions are made if the recovredesignations are made at the end of the fiscal year. In the case erable amount has increased in subsequent periods. An impairof financial instruments for which there is no measurement at fair ment loss recognized in prior periods is reversed only if there have value through profit or loss, the transaction costs that are directly been significant changes to the measurement parameters used to attributable to the purchase of the financial asset or to the issue originally determine the asset’s recoverable amount since the last or assumption of the financial liability are also included. These are impairment loss was recognized. If this is the case, the book value those directly attributable to the acquisition of the financial asset of the asset is increased to as much as its recoverable amount. or the issue of financial liabilities. However, an addition is limited to the amount that would have SMA Solar Technology AG // Annual Report 2018 Notes – Consolidated Financial Statements 89 Financial instruments are generally stated separately. They are Provisions account for all recognizable present (legal and connetted only if there is a right of offsetting them on the relevant date structive) obligations of the Group to third parties as a result and also if the intention is to perform the settlement on a net basis. of past events that are expected to lead to an outflow of resources with an economic benefit to settle the obligation and the amount Their subsequent measurement is based on the previous categories of which can be estimated reliably. Provisions are recognized pursuant to IFRS 9. For the SMA Group, the measurement categoin line with IAS 37 at the estimated amount required to settle them. ries “Amortized Cost” and “Fair Value through Profit or Loss” are Insofar as the Group expects to receive a repayment, at least in particularly relevant. Any loans and receivables granted and other part, for a reported provision (such as for an insurance contract), financial liabilities are measured at amortized cost of acquisition the repayment is recorded as a separate asset if the inflow of the using the effective interest method. payment is highly probable. The expense arising from the formation of the provision is recognized in the Income Statement. Non-­current Assets measured ″At Fair Value through Profit or Loss” are meaprovisions are carried in the balance sheet at their settlement sured at fair value. These primarily include derivative financial amount discounted to the balance sheet date using corresponding instruments that are not part of an effective hedging relationship. term-dependent market interest rates. If the amount is discounted, Derivative financial instruments are reported as assets or liabilities the increase of provisions caused by expiration is recorded under if their fair values are positive or negative. Gains and losses resultfinance costs. Additions to the provisions for guarantees outlined ing from changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments under 19. “Provisions” are recognized in cost of sales. It is not are recognized directly through profit or loss, as long as no hedgcarried out by a delimitation of revenue. In addition to individual ing relationship was created for them. Gains or losses resulting circumstances, provisions for general warranty risks are also taken from subsequent measurement are recognized through profit or loss into account when setting aside provisions for warranty obligations. in the Income Statement. In the case of warranty risks, an obligation of five to ten years is generally adopted as a base. Due to the implementation of a qualAt each reporting date, the accounting values of the financial ity management project in the current fiscal year with regard to the assets, which are not measured at fair value through profit or loss, measurement of default rates over the entire warranty period as are then examined to see whether objective evidence indicates an well as the improved possibility to obtain statistically relevant data impairment. Any impairment loss, which is based on a lower value available for the first time on Company products sold, the estimathan the carrying amount, is recognized in the Income Statement. tion regarding future expenses could be concretized. Calculation of the warranty provision based on this updated information results A financial asset is removed from the books if the enterprise has in a positive deviation of €33.5 million as compared to calculation relinquished control of the contractual rights related to the financial based on the previous estimate. This constitutes a change in an asset. A financial liability is removed from the books if the obliga­estimate as defined in IAS 8. tion underlying the liability is discharged, cancelled or has expired. The determination as to whether an agreement contains a lease is Government grants are not recognized until there is reasonmade based on the economic content of the agreement on the date able assurance that SMA will meet all the conditions for receivof its conclusion. This requires an assessment of whether fulfillment ing the grants. Government grants are initially recognized directly of the agreement depends on the use of a specific asset or specific in equity. They are to be recognized through profit or loss in line assets and whether the agreement grants a right to use the asset. with planning along with the corresponding expenses to be offset Where an operating lease exists, the substantial rewards and risks by the grants. Government grants that are paid to compensate for regarding the leased object are retained by the lessor. Lease payexpenses or losses already incurred or to provide immediate finanments on operating leases are recorded on a linear basis over the cial support without directly associated expense are recognized term of the lease as an expense in the Income Statement. in the income statement in the period in which the corresponding claim arises. Employee benefits are usually reported as a liability if an employee has provided work in exchange for benefits payable in the future and are recognized as an expense if the entity has received the economic benefit resulting from the work provided by an employee in exchange for future benefits. Annual Report 2018 // SMA Solar Technology AG 90 Consolidated Financial Statements – Notes Long-service and death benefits are granted on the basis of a Deferred taxes are calculated according to IAS 12 based on company agreement. Measurement of obligations to pay benefits the standard international balance-sheet-related liability method. is carried out by applying the projected unit credit method. This This requires deferred tax items to be recognized for all ­temporary method takes into account both the claims for payment of long-­ ­differences between the tax base of an asset or liability and the service rewards and death benefits and the acquired pension rights carrying amount in the consolidated balance sheet as well as for known as of the balance sheet date, and payments of long-service tax loss carryforwards. However, deferred tax assets are recrewards and death benefits expected in the future. ognized only if there will be sufficient taxable income available in the future. In 2009, SMA Solar Technology AG introduced value-based lifelong working-time accounts. Under certain conditions, employDeferred taxes are measured using the tax rates that, under curees may have time credits or special benefits reposted to these rent legislation, would apply in the future on the probable date of value accounts. They may take paid leave of absence at a later reversal of the temporary differences. The effects of amendments date using the credit balances extrapolated. The employees’ value to tax legislation on deferred tax assets and liabilities are recogclaims are protected against insolvency and are reinsured. nized in profit or loss in the period in which the material conditions for such amendments to come into force arise. Deferred tax assets Revenue is recognized if it is probable that the economic beneand ­liabilities are not discounted according to the regulations of fit will flow to the Group and the amount of the revenue can be IAS 12. Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset at ­measured reliably. Revenue is measured at the fair value of the the same maturity, provided that they relate to the same entity. consideration received. Discounts, rebates and other deductions are taken into account. Revenue from the sale of goods and products is recognized if the material rewards and risks associated 2.3. SIGNIFICANT JUDGEMENTS, ESTIMATES with the ownership of the goods and products sold have passed AND ASSUMPTIONS to the buyer. This is the case upon delivery of goods and products or handover from the carrier, depending on the contractually Preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements requires agreed Incoterms. Revenue from services is recognized as soon the Company management to make judgements, estimates and as the services are rendered. In the case of multi-year service conassumptions that affect the amounts of revenues and expenses, tracts, the recognition of revenue is spread over the contract term. assets and liabilities reported on the reporting date as well as the Interest income is recognized when an interest claim has accrued disclosure of contingent liabilities. Uncertainty related to these (using the effective interest rate, i. e., the internal rate used to disassumptions and estimates may lead to results that require material count estimated future cash inflows over the expected term of the adjustments to the book values of the relevant assets or liabilities in financial instrument to the net book value of the financial asset). the future. When applying the accounting and valuation policies, In the previous year, sales were recognized as per IAS 11. This the Company management made the judgments outlined below, related to a single fixed price contract that was processed during which had a significant effect on the amounts recognized in the the previous year. The degree of completion was calculated over Consolidated Financial Statements. the course of the year as a ratio of total costs and costs incurred. Dividend income is recognized when the right to receive payment The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources is established. of estimation uncertainty on the reporting date associated with a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the book values Current tax receivables and tax liabilities for the ongoing of assets and liabilities during the next fiscal year are explained and for previous periods are measured at the amount which is below: expected to be reimbursed by the tax authority or to be paid to the tax authority. Tax rates and tax laws applicable on the balance Development costs are capitalized when all required conditions sheet date are used to calculate this amount. Income taxes include are given. Initial capitalization of costs is based on an estimate current and deferred taxes. Current taxes that relate to items stated by the Company management that a project’s technical and ecodirectly in equity are not recognized in the income statement but nomic feasibility has been proven. This is normally the case when rather in equity. a development project has reached a specific milestone or a specific quality gate in the development process. When determining the amounts to be capitalized, the Company management makes further valuation assumptions regarding the amount of expected future cash flows from assets, the discounting rates to be applied and the period of inflow of expected future cash flows generated SMA Solar Technology AG // Annual Report 2018 Notes – Consolidated Financial Statements 91 by assets. With this in mind, development costs of €18.8 million discounted cash flows are then used to determine the present value (2017: €18.4 million) were capitalized in the 2018 fiscal year. of the asset or cash-generating unit. In 2018, discretionary impairResearch and development expenses of €68.3 million (2017: ment losses were recognized on capitalized development projects €64.6 million) were incurred. and on the associate Tigo Energy, Inc. See also sections 9. “Intangible Assets” and 11. “Investments in Associates.” In addition to individual circumstances, provisions for general ­warranty risks are also taken into account when setting aside Deferred tax assets are formed for all unused tax loss carryforprovisions for warranty obligations. In the case of warranty risks, wards to the extent that it is probable that there will be sufficient an obligation of five or ten years is generally adopted as a base. taxable profit to enable the loss carryforwards to actually be The expected warranty expenditure is based on historical valused. Determining the amount of deferred tax assets requires the ues in ­previous fiscal years. The Group’s ratio is determined by Company management to use significant discretion regarding the ­comparing the Group-wide warranty costs for the past five years expected time of accrual and the amount of taxable income in the with the sales of the previous year’s warranty. Only warranty future as well as regarding future tax planning strategies. In conexpenditure relating to past years that has not been assigned to trast to the previous year, no deferred tax assets on loss carryforindividual circumstances is taken into account. Individual facts are wards were recognized in the fiscal year on the basis of the current consequently no longer part of the general warranty provisions, tax planning (2017: €13 million). but valued individually. The value of the provision for individual cases and general warranty risks amounted to €129 million as of A significant portion of the reported assets is based on planning December 31, 2018 (December 31, 2017: €136 million). More assumptions in the detailed three-year plan developed by the Maninformation is provided in section 19, Provisions. Accrued payaging Board and approved by the Supervisory Board. Significant ments received for non-gratuitous warranties are collected over assumptions regarding the sales performance and cost reduction the warranty period as sales because, in this case, a linear proand the development of different markets are therefore of considergression of warranty costs is also adopted as the best possible able significance to the amount of assets. estimation method. With respect to sales from long-standing service and maintenance 3. Segment Reporting contracts, in the previous fiscal year an extensive project was undertaken to gain a better overview of the costs and the ­revenue The SMA Group operates under a compact and functional orgafrom these contracts. Previously, sales for the warranty part of the nization. As in the previous year, the Residential, Commercial and contracts were recognized only to the extent of the expenses recUtility segments are presented separately in the reporting structure. ognized (IAS 18.26). Enhancing the quality of reporting meant that The Service business unit was integrated into the Residential & Comthe project benefited from having better cost statements per conmercial business units and the Utility business unit, subsequently, tract and enabled the fees received to be fully recognized in revethere is no longer any separate reporting for the Service segnue. This resulted in a positive effect on earnings of €19.4 million ment from 2018 onward. SMA Sunbelt Energy and the Offin the previous year. Grid & ­Storage business unit have been combined into the Storage segment. The Digital Energy reporting segment, arising from the On each balance sheet date, the Group examines whether there new business area of the same name that was established in Januare indicators for an impairment of non-financial assets. Estimatary 2018, was reported for the first time in fiscal year 2018. The ing the value in use requires the Company management to make previous year’s figures were adjusted. an estimate of the expected future cash flows from the asset or the cash-generating unit and to choose a suitable discount rate. The Annual Report 2018 // SMA Solar Technology AG 92 Consolidated Financial Statements – Notes The investment approach of Tigo Energy, Inc. is not assigned to a The operating result of the segments is monitored separately by the segment because the earnings effects are allocated to the financial Managing Board to make decisions on the allocation of resources result. and to determine the profitability of the segments. Group financing, currency and interest rate hedging and the income tax burden are controlled at the Group level and are therefore not allocated to the Segment Activities individual operating segments. Residential In the Residential segment, SMA caters to global markets for small PV Regarding information on geographical segments, sales are systems with and without connection to a smart home solution. The portfolio, assigned to countries using the destination principle. The Company which includes the SMA and Zeversolar brands, comprises smart module refrains from presenting non-current assets based on this classifitechnology, singleand three-phase string inverters in the lower output range of up to 12 kW, integrated services, energy management solutions, cation. SMA Solar Technology AG develops and manufactures storage systems, communication products and accessories. SMA’s Residenits products mainly in Germany. There are no material non-current tial segment also offers services, such as extended warranties, spare parts and modernization of PV systems (Repowering), to enhance performance. assets tied to the production sites outside Germany in China and With this portfolio of products and services, SMA provides optimal solutions Poland. Accordingly, an apportionment of assets by regions is likefor private PV systems in all major photovoltaic markets worldwide. wise not a part of internal management reporting. Commercial In the Commercial segment, the focus is on global markets for medium-­ sized PV systems with and without an energy management solution. Here SMA offers solutions based on the three-phase Sunny Tripower inverters The Group measures the performance of its segments through a with outputs of more than 12 kW as well as on inverters from the Sunny measurement of segment profit or loss, which is referred to as EBIT Highpower and Solid-Q product families. The Sunny Tripower inverters are compatible with the smart module technology from Tigo Energy, in the internal management and reporting system. This measureInc. ­Holistic energy management solutions for medium-sized PV systems ment comprises gross profit, selling and general administrative based on the ennexOS platform, medium-voltage technology and other accessories as well as services up to and including system modernization expenses, research and non-capitalized development costs as well and operational management of commercial PV systems (O&M business) as other operating income (balance of other operating income round off SMA’s offering. and expenses). Utility The Utility segment focuses on international PV power plant markets with its powerful string inverters in the Sunny Highpower product family and the central inverters in the Sunny Central product family. The outputs Segment assets comprise the intangible assets attributed to each of the inverters in this segment range from 150 kW to the megawatts. In segment and its fixed assets, inventories and trade receivables. addition, the SMA portfolio in the Utility segment covers complete solutions comprising central inverters with their grid service and monitoring functions Segment liabilities include trade payables that are directly attribas well as all mediumand high-voltage technology and accessories. The utable to the relevant segments. Internal management reporting is portfolio is supplemented by services, such as for the modernization and functional enhancement of PV power plants (Repowering), and operation in line with the accounting policies of external reporting. and maintenance services (O&M business). Storage The Storage segment is comprised of SMA’s system technology for inteThe transfer prices between the business segments are determined grating battery-storage systems of all system sizes. In addition to increasing using management prices based on usual arm’s length market PV self-consumption to reduce electricity costs in private households and companies, the main priorities here are supplying electricity to remote conditions. Income from external third parties is reported using the areas reliably and cost-effectively as well as implementing PV diesel hybrid same valuation parameters as shown in the income statement. projects in sunbelt areas around the world and large-scale storage projects in select markets. SMA collaborates on storage integration with all leading battery manufacturers and with companies from the automotive industry. No asymmetrical allocations are made to individual segments. Digital The Digital Energy segment comprises the subsidiaries coneva and Energy emerce. coneva develops digital energy services for private and business customers. emerce GmbH focuses on online sales channels for select markets. SMA Solar Technology AG // Annual Report 2018 Notes – Consolidated Financial Statements 93 Financial Ratios by Segments and Regions Operating profit External product sales External services sales Total sales (EBIT) in € million 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Segments1 Residential 164.9 213.8 16.6 19.5 181.5 233.3 –16.6 2.8 Commercial 245.0 268.0 6.9 3.4 251.9 271.4 –11.5 0.5 Utility 231.5 245.3 34.8 43.9 266.3 289.2 –63.6 25.6 Storage 60.4 96.3 0.7 0.8 61.1 97.1 –5.6 10.0 Digital Energy 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.1 0.0 –4.2 0.0 Total segments 701.8 823.4 59.1 67.6 760.9 891.0 –101.5 38.9 Reconciliation 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 –50.2 5.2 Continuing operations 701.8 823.4 59.1 67.6 760.9 891.0 –151.7 44.1 Depreciation and Segment assets Segment liabilities Capital expenditure ­amortization in € million 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Segments 1 Residential 65.7 42.4 1.8 1.7 4.1 2.9 6.7 5.7 Commercial 84.0 84.5 10.4 13.2 14.8 13.0 19.4 3.0 Utility 134.2 150.4 6.1 6.9 2.6 0.1 21.5 10.6 Storage 17.2 26.6 2.2 7.6 1.4 3.8 6.6 1.4 Digital Energy 0.1 0.0 0.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total segments 301.2 303.9 21.0 29.4 22.9 19.8 54.2 20.7 Reconciliation 656.1 911.1 512.5 575.3 17.4 13.4 28.4 32.5 Continuing operations 957.3 1,215.0 533.5 604.7 40.3 33.2 82.6 53.2 1 D  ue to the reclassification of the Service segment into the segments Residential, Commercial and Utility, the former Service segment is no longer valid. In the current fiscal year, business unit SMA Sunbelt Energy and business unit Off-Grid & Storage are reported under Storage. The previous year’s figures were adjusted. Sales by regions (target market of the product) in € million 2018 2017 EMEA 370.7 401.5 Americas 148.8 212.4 APAC 257.6 294.9 Sales deductions –16.2 –17.8 External sales 760.9 891.0 thereof Germany 150.6 165.8 Annual Report 2018 // SMA Solar Technology AG 94 Consolidated Financial Statements – Notes Reconciliation of the segment figures to the correlating figures in NOTES TO THE INCOME STATEMENT the Financial Statements is as follows: SMA GROUP in € million 2018 2017 4. Other Operating Income and Expenses Total segment earnings (EBIT) –101.5 38.9 Other miscellaneous income related chiefly to government grants in Elimination –50.3 5.2 the amount of €1.8 million (2017: €1.6 million) and income from Consolidated EBIT –151.7 44.1 foreign currency translation in the amount of €14.1 million (2017: Financial result –14.7 –0.3 €23.2 million). In the previous year, income from the sale of SMA Earnings before income taxes –166.4 43.8 Railway Technology GmbH was reported in a high-single-digit million amount. Total segment assets 301.2 303.9 Other central items and eliminations 99.6 159.7 Other operating expenses include impairment pursuant to IFRS 5 Centrally administered land and buildings in conjunction with IFRS 36 on assets of the disposal group of the 152.8 161.8 subgroup SMA New Energy Technology (Jiangsu) Co., Ltd. and Cash and long-term time deposits 320.2 460.4 SMA New Energy Technology (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. in the amount Financial instruments not designated and other assets 30.9 51.0 of €25.0 million. In addition, expenses for severance payments Deferred tax assets and income tax receivables 52.6 65.1 in connection with the restructuring program are reported in the Investments in associates 0.0 13.1 amount of €8.6 million and expenses from foreign currency translaGroup assets 957.3 1,215.0 tion in the amount of €21.3 million (2017: €27.9 million). Total segment liabilities 21.0 29.4 5. Employee and Temporary Employee Other central items and eliminations 103.8 101.0 Financial instruments not designated, liabilities and ­Benefits provisions 404.6 449.9 Income tax liabilities and deferred tax assets 4.1 24.4 Group liabilities 533.5 604.7 in €’000 2018 2017 Wages and salaries 189,328 175,038 Expenses for temporary employees 13,799 16,042 Circumstances are shown in the reconciliation, which by definition Social security contribution and welfare payments 29,083 26,981 are not part of the segments. In particular, this comprises unallocated parts of Group head offices, including centrally managed 232,210 218,061 cash and cash equivalents, financial instruments, financial liabilities and buildings, the expenses of which are allocated to the segments. Voluntary contributions to private pensions amounted to €1.2 million in 2018 (2017: €1.4 million). The reconciliation in the financial year mainly includes impairments from the valuation of the held-for-sale subgroup China (€25.0 milThe average number of employees in the Group amounted to: lion), expenses for severance payments (€8.6 million) and impairments on trade receivables (€12.3 million, previous year: €1.4 mil2018 2017 lion). The other amounts relate to currency translation effects that are not allocated to individual segments. In the previous year, this Research and Development 635 607 includes the proceeds from the sale of SMA Railway Technology Production and Sales 1,879 1,688 GmbH. Business relationships between the segments are eliminated in the reconciliation. Distribution and Administration 770 746 3,284 3,041 In 2018, as in the previous year, no customer accounted for a Apprentices and interns 112 133 share of more than 10% of Group sales. Temporary employees 526 578 3,922 3,752 SMA Solar Technology AG // Annual Report 2018 Notes – Consolidated Financial Statements 95 6. Financial Result Income taxes comprise trade tax, corporation tax and the solidarity surcharge in Germany as well as comparable income taxes abroad. The expected income tax expense that would result from in €’000 2018 2017 applying the tax rate of the parent company SMA Solar Technology AG to the IFRS net income before taxes can be reconciled to Loss from at equity-accounted investments 13,134 1,740 income taxes shown in the Income Statement as follows: Interest income 2,023 4,692 Other financial income 1 10 in €’000 2018 2017 Income from interest derivatives 101 140 Financial income 2,125 4,842 Net income before income taxes –166,380 43,844 Interest expenses 1,989 1,125 Tax rate of the parent company 30.4% 30.4% Other financial expenses 1,630 2,058 Expected income tax expenses –50,586 13,329 Expenses from interest derivatives 0 139 Differences related to differing tax rates Interest portion from valuation of provisions 43 33 domestic and abroad –2,527 –2,540 Financial expenses 3,662 3,355 Effects due to changes in tax rates 92 11,139 Financial result –14,671 –253 Tax-free income 0 –2,892 Non-deductible expenses 23,036 568 Unusable loss carryforwards and amortization of loss carryforwards 39,139 –3,626 The loss from equity-accounted investments results from the prorata annual loss and an impairment loss of €11.3 million for Tigo Taxes relating to previous years –829 –1,661 Energy, Inc.; see information under 11. Investments in Associates. Other tax effects 781 –910 Actual income taxes (according to Income Statement) 9,106 13,407 7. Income Taxes Effective Group tax rate –5.5% 30.6% Actual income taxes (paid or payable) and deferred taxes are ­recognized as income taxes. They break down as follows: The corporation tax rate of 15% and the solidarity surcharge rate of 5.5% are to be applied to corporations based in Germany. In addition, domestic companies and partnerships are subject to in €’000 2018 2017 trade tax, which is influenced by assessment rates specific to the particular municipality. The average effective Group tax rate was Actual income taxes affected, in particular, by the decrease in deferred taxes on loss carryforwards associated with corporate planning. The average for current fiscal years 5,572 –9,342 trade tax rate to be applied at the level of the parent company was for previous years –829 –1,661 14.6% (2017: 14.6%). The overall tax rate of the Group’s parent Deferred taxes company was thus 30.4% (2017: 30.4%). from temporary differences –8,881 27,630 from tax loss carryforwards 13,244 –3,220 The effects of deviations between the relevant tax rates at the level Income taxes 9,106 13,407 of the domestic and foreign Group companies and the overall tax rate at the level of the Group’s parent company are shown in the reconciliation statement under deviations related to tax rate in ­Germany and abroad. Annual Report 2018 // SMA Solar Technology AG 96 Consolidated Financial Statements – Notes No deferred taxes were formed for the undistributed profits of forThe Company has examined the right to a possible offsetting of eign subsidiaries, including accrued currency translation differences temporary differences by increasing the validity of the financial because this income and these translation differences are either not statements and the better comparability with the financial statesubject to corresponding taxation or will not be distributed in the ments of other companies. There were no results-effective effects. foreseeable future. Provisions and liabilities for subsidiaries held for sale include deferred tax liabilities for temporary differences in the The deferred tax assets are considered realizable as far as sufamount of €2.7 million. ficiently high future taxable income is to be expected. This was based on a planning horizon of three years. Based on the current As of December 31, 2018, there were current income tax receivcorporate planning and the loss situation no deferred taxes for ables amounting to €20.6 million (2017: €20.5 million) and loss carryforwards were recognized in the current fiscal year. ­current income tax liabilities of €4.1 million (2017: €12.2 million). Tax liabilities are the result of global business activity and a share As of December 31, 2018, corporation tax loss carryforwards in of foreign sales of 80.6%. As a result, SMA is subject to various tax the amount of €285.4 million (2017: €182.0 million) as well as laws and regulations in other countries. Tax changes in Germany trade tax loss carryforwards of €314.0 million (2017: €211.0 miland abroad could affect the tax positions of SMA. In addition to lion) existed at SMA Solar Technology AG. changes of legal regulations, the assessment and interpretation of complex tax regulations, for example the transfer prices, can influence our earnings, financial and asset position. We work closely 8. Earnings per Share with tax consulting companies in the individual countries to identify risks, perform regular audits and take appropriate precautions. Earnings per share are calculated by dividing the net income attributable to the shareholders by the weighted average of ordinary No deferred tax assets or deferred tax liabilities were recorded shares in circulation during the period. The number of shares in the directly in item “Other comprehensive income” in 2018 (2017: 2018 fiscal year amounted to 34.7 million, as in the previous year. –€4.6 million). Deferred tax assets and liabilities were distributed across the following items: The net income attributable to the shareholders is the net income after tax. As there were no shares held by the Company on the reporting date or any other special cases, the number of ordinary 2018/12/31 2017/12/31 shares issued equated to the number of shares in circulation. Deferred Deferred Deferred Deferred in €’000 tax assets tax liability tax assets tax liability The calculation of earnings in relation to the weighted average number of shares in accordance with IAS 33 resulted in earnIntangible assets 246 –8,913 17 –17,951 ings of –€5.06 per share for the period from January 1, 2018 to Fixed assets 7,245 0 7,029 0 December 31, 2018, with an average weighted number of shares Financial assets 0 0 814 0 of 34.7 million and earnings of €0.87 per share for the period Inventories 10,108 –83 3,978 –444 from January 1, 2017 to December 31, 2017, with an average weighted number of shares of 34.7 million. Other assets 2,876 0 1,550 0 Other provisions 8,923 –1,300 11,182 –2,022 There were no options or conversion options as of the reporting Other liabilities 13,554 –738 15,143 –169 date. Therefore, there were no diluting effects and the diluted and Gross amount 42,952 –11,034 39,713 –20,586 basic earnings per share were the same. Loss carryforwards 0 0 13,244 0 Balancing –11,024 11,024 –8,299 8,299 31,928 –10 44,658 –12,287 SMA Solar Technology AG // Annual Report 2018 Notes – Consolidated Financial Statements 97 NOTES TO THE BALANCE SHEET SMA GROUP 9. Intangible Assets Intangible assets evolved in the fiscal years under review as follows: Patents/ Intangible Development licenses/ ­assets in in €’000 Goodwill projects rights Software ­progress Total Acquisition costs 2018/01/01 13,660 173,347 20,865 48,606 17,773 274,251 Changes in currency 0 –244 –117 –22 0 –383 Additions 0 7,624 108 120 12,239 20,091 Disposals (–) 0 0 6 42 0 48 Transfers 0 11,601 8 568 –12,015 162 Classified as “held for sale” 0 0 14,897 431 0 15,328 2018/12/31 13,660 192,328 5,961 48,799 17,997 278,745 Depreciation and amortization 2018/01/01 12,862 128,052 15,677 45,022 1,707 203,320 Changes in currency 0 –245 –104 –16 1 –364 Additions 316 47,643 524 1,864 3,169 53,516 Disposals (–) 0 0 5 41 0 46 Transfers 0 0 –1 1 0 0 Classified as “held for sale” 0 0 –13,803 –229 0 –14,032 2018/12/31 13,178 175,450 2,288 46,601 4,877 242,394 Net value 2017/12/31 798 45,295 5,188 3,584 16,066 70,931 Net value 2018/12/31 482 16,878 3,673 2,198 13,120 36,351 Acquisition costs 2017/01/01 13,660 153,282 21,701 47,387 18,929 254,959 Changes in currency 0 463 –915 –5 –4 –461 Additions 0 4,661 79 170 14,898 19,808 Disposals (–) 0 0 0 91 0 91 Transfers 0 14,941 0 1,145 –16,050 36 Classified as “held for sale” 0 0 0 0 0 0 2017/12/31 13,660 173,347 20,865 48,606 17,773 274,251 Depreciation and amortization 2017/01/01 12,862 107,515 15,905 41,851 3,596 181,729 Changes in currency 0 463 –840 12 0 –365 Additions from acquisitions 0 0 0 0 0 0 Additions 0 18,731 612 3,252 0 22,595 Disposals (–) 0 0 0 93 546 639 Transfers 0 1,343 0 0 –1,343 0 Classified as “held for sale” 0 0 0 0 –1,343 –1,343 2017/12/31 12,862 126,709 15,677 45,022 1,707 201,977 Net value 2016/12/31 798 45,767 5,797 5,536 15,333 73,231 Net value 2017/12/31 798 45,295 5,188 3,584 16,066 70,931 Annual Report 2018 // SMA Solar Technology AG 98 Consolidated Financial Statements – Notes €11.2 million (2017: €13.7 million) of the additions of intangible resulting from the asset deal with Phoenix is assigned to the Utility assets in progress included development projects. segment (€0.2 million), while that of SMA Magnetics (€0.3 million) is assigned to the Residential segment. In relation to development projects, amortization of intangible assets is posted in the income statement under cost of sales. DepreThe existing goodwill was confirmed in the impairment reviews at ciation and amortization of development projects and intangithe end of the fiscal year with the exception of Danfoss. The probles, an impairment loss of €29.5 million (2017: €0.0 million) is gression of cash flow was extrapolated for the period after the included due to changes in sales forecasts. €12.4 million of the third year on the basis of a constant annual growth rate of 1.0% impairment loss related to the Commercial segment, €10.6 million (2017: 1.0%). This was derived from the average long-term growth to Utility, €4.1 million to Off-Grid & Storage and €2.4 million to rate on the photovoltaic market. The after-tax interest rates applied Residential. The depreciation was based on the value of use in ranged between 9.0% and 11.1% (pretax interest rates: 13.0% order to calculate an after tax rate of 9.0% (2017: 9.8%). Amorto 16.0%). The Managing Board believes that no reasonably contization of software is allocated to the functional areas dependent ceivable change in basic assumptions on the basis of which the on use. recoverable amount is determined would result in the cumulative book value of the cash-generating unit exceeding its cumulative The goodwill is assigned to cash-generating units on the basis recoverable amount. of the organizational structure. The goodwill from the asset deal with Danfoss was assigned to the Commercial segment (€0.3 million) and was written down in full in the fiscal year. The goodwill 10. Fixed Assets Fixed assets evolved as follows in the 2018 fiscal year: Land and ­buildings, incl. buildings on Technical Other equipment, Prepayments third-party ­equipment/ plant and office and assets under in €’000 ­property machinery equipment construction Total Acquisition costs 2018/01/01 239,246 75,963 190,932 2,398 508,539 Changes in currency 53 –84 –102 –14 –147 Additions 69 500 928 18,737 20,234 Disposals (–) 11,033 1,662 12,175 0 24,870 Transfers 2,866 926 11,512 –15,436 –132 Classified as “held for sale” 5,181 3,819 4,107 41 13,148 2018/12/31 226,020 71,824 186,988 5,644 490,476 Depreciation and amortization 2018/01/01 88,224 44,592 163,171 0 295,987 Changes in currency 86 –69 –20 0 –3 Additions 11,161 5,018 12,178 0 28,357 Disposals (–) 10,741 1,119 11,976 37 23,873 Transfers 0 –472 472 0 0 Classified as “held for sale” –2,442 –3,129 –3,305 0 –8,876 2018/12/31 86,288 44,821 160,520 –37 291,592 Net value 2017/12/31 151,022 31,371 27,761 2,398 212,552 Net value 2018/12/31 139,732 27,003 26,467 5,681 198,883 SMA Solar Technology AG // Annual Report 2018 Notes – Consolidated Financial Statements 99 Fixed assets of €16.3 million (2017: €18.4 million) were negaFixed assets evolved as follows in the 2017 fiscal year: tively affected by mortgage liens used to secure financial liabilities. Land and ­buildings, incl. buildings on Technical Other equipment, Prepayments third-party ­equipment/ plant and office and assets under in €’000 ­property machinery equipment construction Total Acquisition costs 2017/01/01 259,106 74,537 195,451 5,085 534,179 Changes in currency –2,293 –349 –1,077 203 –3,516 Additions 307 948 1,237 10,768 13,260 Disposals (–) 15,229 1,280 15,533 661 32,703 Transfers 0 2,107 10,854 –12,997 –36 Reclassified to “investment property” 1,565 0 0 0 1,565 Classified as “held for sale” 1,080 0 0 0 1,080 2017/12/31 239,246 75,963 190,932 2,398 508,539 Depreciation and amortization 2017/01/01 95,153 40,620 164,079 0 299,852 Changes in currency –2,261 –182 –996 0 –3,439 Additions 11,559 5,083 13,961 0 30,603 Disposals (–) 16,227 910 13,892 0 31,029 Transfers 0 –19 19 0 0 2017/12/31 88,224 44,592 163,171 0 295,987 Net value 2016/12/31 163,953 33,917 31,372 5,085 234,327 Net value 2017/12/31 151,022 31,371 27,761 2,398 212,552 11. Investments in Associates in €’000 2018 2017 SMA has a 28.27% stake in Tigo Energy, Inc. Tigo Energy, Inc. Current assets 15,621 7,139 is a specialist in the field of smart module technology. SMA uses Non-current assets 1,608 586 the technology in particular with the products of the Commercial Current liabilities –13,329 –2,627 segment. The associate is included in the Consolidated Financial Non-current liabilities –8,743 –3,095 Statements according to the equity method. The Group also determines whether there are objective indications of impairment for Sales 22,516 12,587 its investments in the associate. During the fiscal year, it became clear that the Company still would not leave the loss-making zone Annual earnings –5,391 –5,771 in fiscal year 2018, as in the previous years. If there are objective Other comprehensive income 1,107 –385 indications that the recoverable amount is lower than the carrying Overall result –6,498 –6,156 amount, then the difference between the recoverable amount of the Dividends received from Tigo 0 0 investment in the associate and the carrying amount of the “share in the earnings of associates” is recognized in profit or loss as an impairment loss. The value in use is calculated using a DCF method that includes the future sales and earnings forecasts. The value in use thus measured was €0.0 million (previous year: €47.1 million). The after-tax interest rate used was 10.3 %. After recognizing losses incurred during the year, an additional impairment loss of €11.3 million was recognized as of the end of the year. Annual Report 2018 // SMA Solar Technology AG 100 Consolidated Financial Statements – Notes Tax income is negligible as a result of the loss situation. The book The tenancy agreements for the buildings do not contain any convalue of the associate was written off as of the reporting date. ditional rental payments, but they each offer an option to extend, which can be exercised by the tenant. The non-cancelable rental The reconciliation of the presented financial information to the book periods are five years and six years. The distribution of rental value is as follows: income is shown in the table below. in €’000 2018/12/31 2017/12/31 >1–5 in € million < 1 year years > 5 years Total Net assets Tigo –4,843 2,003 Rental income 1.9 5.1 2.1 9.1 Holdings (%) 28.27 28.27 Group share in the net assets –1,369 566 Goodwill 12,313 11,761 Other adjustments –10,944 807 Book value of the Group investment 0 13,134 13. Inventories SMA Group inventories are made up as follows: in €’000 2018/12/31 2017/12/31 12. Investment Property Raw materials, consumables and supplies 71,191 63,763 Unfinished goods, work in progress 13,943 12,777 in €’000 2018/12/31 2017/12/31 Finished goods and goods for resale 104,913 87,598 Prepayments 3,748 845 Level at the beginning of the year 16,979 15,414 193,795 164,983 Transfers from fixed assets (net book value) –30 2,295 Depreciation and amortization (–) 737 730 Level at the end of the reporting period 16,212 16,979 Inventories are measured at the lower value of the cost of acquisiIncome and expenses included in the tion or sales and net realizable value. Inventories increased due to profit and loss account customer project delays and in order to support delivery capacity. in €’000 2018 2017 The balance of impairment accounts amounted to €45.2 million as of the end of the fiscal year (2017: €25.4 million) and relates Rental income 1,748 1,814 entirely to central corporate functions (2017: €23.8 million). In Attributable expenses 627 467 the previous year, €1.6 million related to the Service segment. The total costs of acquisition and sales recognized as expenses include impairments on net realizable value of €11.1 million (2017: €1.5 million). The book value of the inventories written down to the In the 2016 fiscal year, SMA began to rent two buildings that it net realizable value amounted to €0.0 million as of December 31, had previously been using itself. The investment properties are 2018. Capital gains were €0.8 million (2017: €5.4 million) due accounted for using the cost model, whereby the properties are to the sale of depreciated inventory. measured according to IAS 16, i. e., at historical cost less depreciation plus impairment and reversals of impairment. The buildings are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their economic useful life. The underlying useful life of the two buildings is 33 years. Attributable expenses must be assigned in full to the investment properties responsible for generating the rental income. SMA Solar Technology AG // Annual Report 2018 Notes – Consolidated Financial Statements 101 14. Trade Receivables and Other Receivables The other receivables mainly comprise prepaid expenses and other receivables due from tax authorities, which were not overdue on the Trade receivables are non-interest-bearing and, with the exception reporting date. of the Chinese market, usually due between 30 and 90 days. No significant extensions to payment terms were granted in the reportThe age structure of trade receivables was as follows on the reporting ing period. It is possible that different payment terms are granted in dates: ­project business. Not impaired portion of overdue receivables Neither overdue in €’000 Book value nor impaired < 30 days 30 to 60 days 60 to 90 days > 90 days 2018 108,375 83,291 14,394 2,470 2,587 5,633 2017 160,001 112,318 14,498 22,925 4,856 5,366 As of December 31, 2018, value adjustments with a nominal value The value adjustment account of trade receivables evolved as of €25.7 million (2017: €23.3 million) were carried out on aging follows: trade receivables. No value adjustments were made regarding Value overdue receivables as of December 31, 2018, this amounted to Specific correction €25.1 million (December 31, 2017: €47.7 million) as there were no valuation on portfolio in €’000 allowance basis Total significant changes in the credit rating of customers. Settlement of the receivables is expected. The credit rating of customers with whom As of 2017/01/01 23,302 151 23,453 trade receivables exist, which are neither overdue nor impaired, is Additions with effect on the considered to be good. ­expenses (net) 1,403 503 1,906 Usage –333 0 –333 Release –822 –373 –1,195 Exchange rate difference –473 –17 –490 Classified as “held for sale” 0 0 0 As of 2017/12/31 23,077 264 23,341 Additions with effect on the ­expenses (net) 12,268 205 12,473 Usage –1,693 0 –1,693 Release –467 –88 –555 Exchange rate difference –55 1 –54 Classified as “held for sale” –7,463 0 –7,463 As of 2018/12/31 25,667 382 26,049 Annual Report 2018 // SMA Solar Technology AG 102 Consolidated Financial Statements – Notes Additions recognized as expenses in the amount of €12.3 million 17. A  ssets and Asset Groups Held for Sale in 2018 include impairment losses on receivables from two customers with an increased probability of default in the amount of The sale of the companies SMA New Energy Technology (Jiangsu) €9.2 million. These are individual cases. Over the past three years, Co., Ltd., SMA New Energy Technology (Yangzhong) Co., Ltd. and additions recognized as expenses were in the low, single-digit milSMA New Energy Technology (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. was resolved lions. There are no indications of a change in the future. Furtherin the current fiscal year. The companies Australia Zeversolar New more, no adjustments had to be made for other receivables; with Energy Pty. Ltd. and Zeversolar GmbH from the Chinese subgroup regard to other financial assets, please refer to the information will remain part of the Group. The companies held for sale relate below under note 15. The receivables are adjusted individually to Chinese locations for production, commissioned development based on individual assessments. The maximum default risk equates work and purchasing activities. The products are allocated to the to the carrying amount shown in the balance sheet. Residential and Commercial segments. The sales negotiations with the investor are expected to be concluded by the end of the first quarter of 2019. As part of the classification as disposal groupin 15. Other Financial Assets Due to Tax accordance to IFRS 5, an impairment loss of €25.0 million on ­Authorities the fair value less costs to sell was recognized in other operating expenses. The recoverable amount to which the assets were written As of December 31, 2018, other current financial assets included down is the fair value less costs to sell for the disposal group in line in particular financial assets and time deposits with a term to matuwith IFRS 5. This represents the planned sale price. The impairment rity of over three months and accrued interest totaling €177.5 milchiefly relates to fixed assets, inventories and receivables. lion (2017: €225.4 million). Receivables from tax authorities in relation to value-added tax are reported in the amount of €15.6 million as of December 31, 2018. This includes an impairin €’000 2018/12/31 2017/12/31 ment loss of €7.1 million that was incurred on foreign value-added tax receivables. Furthermore, free derivatives amounting to Land classified as held for sale 500 1,180 €1.3 million are included. Other non-current financial assets were Assets attributable to the China disposal group 31,452 0 reclassified as current other financial assets due to their subordi31,952 1,180 nate importance for the net assets, financial position and results of operation. In the previous year, they included a rent deposit for Liabilities attributable to the China disposal group 31,325 0 buildings in the U.S. amounting to USD 2.5 million. In the previous year, SMA sold the Railway Technology business 16. Cash and Cash Equivalents division. With the payment of the purchase price of €19.0 million the sale was completed on March 29, 2017. The business division Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand as well as bank included SMA Railway Technology GmbH and its subsidiary SMA balances, checks, payments in transit and deposits with an original Railway Technology (Guangzhou) Co., Ltd. The business division term to maturity of less than three months. Bank balances bear interdeveloped, produced and distributed power electronics compoest at variable interest rates applicable to deposits subject to call. nents for railway technology. As of December 31, 2018, the Group had unused credit lines In the current fiscal year, land in the amount of €0.5 million was amounting to €86.3 million (2017: €86.4 million) for which all still held for sale and land in the amount of €0.7 million was sold. ­conditions for use had been met. SMA Solar Technology AG // Annual Report 2018 Notes – Consolidated Financial Statements 103 18. Shareholders’ Equity Furthermore, following a resolution adopted by the Annual General Meeting on May 31, 2016, the Managing Board, in the period The change in equity, including effects not shown in the income up to May 30, 2021, is entitled, on behalf of the Company, to statement, is presented in the statement of changes in equity. Signifacquire its own shares up to a value of 10% of the existing capital icant impact was caused by the net income and the dividend paystock at the time the resolution was adopted by the Annual Genment as well as effects from foreign exchange gains/losses. eral Meeting, and to dispose of shares acquired in this way with the consent of the Supervisory Board by means other than through The capital reserve contains agio amounts from the issuance of the stock exchange, or an offer made to all the shareholders, proSMA Solar Technology AG shares. vided the shares are sold in return for cash at a price that does not fall significantly below the stock exchange price of shares in The other retained earnings contain mainly the retained profit and the Company issued under the same terms or the shares are sold the statutory reserve. In addition, retained earnings include other in return for in-kind contributions, or they are offered in return for equity components such as the difference between foreign currency shares held by persons that either had or have an employment relatranslation and the market values from cash flow hedging not rectionship with the Company, or with one of its affiliated companies, ognized in profit or loss. or members of bodies in companies that depend on the Company. Additionally, if the Managing Board sells the Company’s own Shares in SMA AG are no-par value bearer shares, which were shares by offering them to all the shareholders with the consent of fully paid in. the Supervisory Board, the Managing Board is entitled to exclude the shareholders’ right of subscription for fractions. In addition, the The Articles of Incorporation include the provisions on the powers Managing Board is entitled to cancel any own shares acquired of the Managing Board regarding Authorized Capital II. The Manafter obtaining the consent of the Supervisory Board. aging Board, after obtaining the consent of the Supervisory Board, is entitled to increase the share capital on one or several occaThe Annual General Meeting of SMA Solar Technology AG held sions by up to a total of €3.4 million by issuing new bearer shares on May 24, 2018, followed the Managing and Super­visory in return for cash contributions and/or contributions in kind in the Boards’ proposal to distribute a dividend of €0.35 per dividend-­ period up to May 23, 2023. The Managing Board, with the conbearing share for the 2017 fiscal year (2016: €0.26 per dividend-­ sent of the Supervisory Board, is entitled to cancel the statutory subbearing share). scription rights of shareholders: (a) in the case of capital increases in return for contributions in kind for the acquisition of or investment The objectives of capital management are to maintain SMA’s finanin companies, parts of companies or investments in companies, (b) cial substance and ensure necessary flexibility. for the purpose of issuing shares to employees of the Company and companies affiliated with the Company, (c) to exclude fracThe equity ratio is used to measure the financial security of SMA. tions and (d) in the case of capital increases in return for cash conThis is the ratio of equity shown in the consolidated balance sheet tributions if the issue amount of the new shares does not fall signifito total assets. Accordingly, the financing structure is characterized cantly below the stock exchange price of shares of the same class by a conservative capital structure dominated by internal financand terms that are already listed at the time the Managing Board ing. As of the reporting date, the equity ratio was 43.0% (2017: sets the final issue amount, and the total pro rata amount of the 50.3%). External financing occurs almost exclusively through liabiliissued capital attributable to the new shares in respect of which the ties arising from operative business. subscription right is excluded may not exceed 10% of the issued capital available at the time the new shares are issued. Annual Report 2018 // SMA Solar Technology AG 104 Consolidated Financial Statements – Notes 19. Provisions Warranty provisions consist of general warranty obligations (periods of between five and ten years) for the various product areas within Provisions account for all discernible risks from pending trans­ the Group. In addition, provisions are set aside for individual cases actions and contingent liabilities on the balance sheet dates and that are expected to be used in the following year. break down as follows: Personnel provisions mainly include obligations for long-service anniin €’000 Warranties Personnel Other Total versaries, death benefits and partial retirement benefits as well as a €7.3 million addition for severance payments. Personnel provisions As of 2018/01/01 136,351 5,095 14,603 156,049 affect cash in relation to contractual commitments made. Additions 66,409 7,774 13,948 88,131 Usage 28,214 696 4,710 33,620 Other provisions include, in particular, restoration obligations, provisions for tax risks and purchase commitments. In the previous year, Release 44,744 23 7,033 51,800 provisions for consolidation of production locations amounting to Compounding 23 19 2 44 €5.9 million were also included. Transfers 1,870 860 –860 1,870 Changes in currency 1,225 3 69 1,297 Classified as 20. Financial Liabilities “held for sale” 2,487 0 2,459 4,946 As of 2018/12/31 130,433 13,032 13,560 157,025 in €’000 2018/12/31 2017/12/31 Current in 2018 68,200 10,128 13,041 91,369 Non-current in 2018 62,233 2,904 519 65,656 Liabilities due to credit institutions 17,881 20,312 130,433 13,032 13,560 157,025 Derivative financial liabilities 2,382 411 of which liabilities from derivatives outside As of 2017/01/01 153,989 6,057 16,997 177,043 of hedge accounting 2,382 411 Additions 53,207 290 9,050 62,547 Liabilities from finance leases 152 97 Usage 51,059 1,275 9,008 61,342 20,415 20,820 Release 13,383 0 1,557 14,940 Compounding 9 19 5 33 Changes in currency –6,412 4 –884 –7,292 In the 2019 fiscal year, liabilities to credit institutions mainly comAs of 2017/12/31 136,351 5,095 14,603 156,049 prise liabilities for the financing of SMA Immo properties and an SMA AG PV system. They have an average time to maturity of Current in 2017 48,252 2,604 13,766 64,622 ten years. The changes in liabilities to banks and from finance Non-current in 2017 88,099 2,491 837 91,427 leases are fully reflected in the cash flow from financing activities. 136,351 5,095 14,603 156,049 Derivative financial liabilities predominantly include negative ­market values for currency futures presented in hedge accounting. The provisions for statutory warranties are attributable to the Liabilities aside from the recognized hedging relationships consist ­segments as follows: of interest derivatives and currency futures. in €’000 2018/12/31 2017/12/31 21. Trade Payables Residential 32,364 43,758 Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally due Commercial 34,779 56,384 within 30 to 90 days. Utility 53,935 29,433 Storage 5,965 6,183 Other Business 3,390 593 130,433 136,351 SMA Solar Technology AG // Annual Report 2018 Notes – Consolidated Financial Statements 105 22. Other Financial Liabilities Contractual liabilities (prepayments received) include prepayin €’000 2018/12/31 2017/12/31 ments and deliveries of goods. Other contractual liabilities include accrual items for extended warranties, service and maintenance Other financial liabilities 741 15,920 contracts and bonus agreements Non-current contractual obliga741 15,920 tions mainly include liabilities from chargeable extended warranCurrent 741 15,388 ties granted for products from the Residential and Commercial business units. The fulfillment of the non-current contractual obligaNon-current 0 532 tions will extend over a period of five to 15 years from the start of 741 15,920 the extended warranties. Current contractual obligations mainly include prepayments received, accruals for service and maintenance contracts and bonus agreements. The current contractual In the previous year, this item mostly included notes payable by obligations will mostly be fulfilled within the next 12 months. the Chinese subgroup in the amount of €14.1 million. These were reclassified to the “held for sale” item in the current fiscal year due Liabilities in the Human Resources department contain obligations to the planned sale. With the mandatory application of IFRS 15, to employees regarding performance-based bonuses and positive the “sales department liabilities” reported under “other financial vacation and flextime balances as well as variable salary comliabilities” in the 2017 Annual Report were assigned to other liabiliponents and contributions to the workers’ compensation associaties, and specifically to other contractual obligations, in the amount tion and to social insurance systems. Other miscellaneous liabiliof €3.6 million (2017: €4.1 million). They primarily contain liabilities include liabilities to tax authorities amounting to €6.6 million ties to customers from advance payments received. (2017: €6.7 million), which chiefly consist of tax liabilities from payroll accounting, and liabilities from subsidies received in the amount of €0.7 million (2017: €0.8 million), which include 23. Other Liabilities 1 taxable government grants from funds of the common-task ­program “Improvement of the Regional Economic Structure” (EU GA), in €’000 2018/12/31 2017/12/31 granted as investment subsidies. The total amount of retransfer of government grants is stated under other operating income. Contractual liabilities 214,019 220,396 With the mandatory application of IFRS 15, the “sales department Accrual item for extended warranties 176,732 170,818 liabilities” reported under “other financial liabilities” in the 2017 Liabilities from prepayments received 13,928 26,658 Annual Report were assigned to other liabilities. They primarily conAccruals for service and maintenance contracts 11,867 12,291 tain liabilities to customers from advance payments received. Other contractual liabilities 11,492 10,629 Liabilities in the Human Resources department 15,289 24,062 Liabilities from bonus agreements with customers are also reported. Other 11,006 12,573 240,314 257,031 Current 76,479 94,153 Non-current 163,835 162,878 240,314 257,031 1 Other liabilities do not include other financial liabilities Annual Report 2018 // SMA Solar Technology AG 106 Consolidated Financial Statements – Notes 24. Additional Disclosures Relating to ­Financial Instruments Assessment Assessment 2018/12/31 2017/12/31 ­category accord­category accordin €’000 ing to IAS 39 ing to IFRS 9 Book value Book value Cash and cash equivalents LaR AC 142,637 234,853 Trade receivables LaR AC 108,375 160,001 Other financial investments AfS FVOCI 2 2 Other financial assets 185,379 248,546 of which institutional mutual funds FAHfT FVPL 101,447 150,230 of which other (time deposits) LaR AC 82,649 90,474 of which derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting FAHfT FVPL 1,283 7,842 Trade payables FLAC AC 110,851 130,432 Financial liabilities 20,415 20,820 of which liabilities due to credit institutions FLAC AC 17,881 20,312 of which liabilities from finance leases n/a AC 152 97 of which derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting FLHfT FVPL 2,382 411 Other financial liabilities FLAC AC 741 15,920 Of which aggregated according to valuation categories in accordance with IFRS 9/IAS 39: Financial assets measured at amortized cost LaR AC 333,661 485,328 Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost FLAC AC 129,473 166,665 Financial assets measured at fair value through profit and loss FAHfT FVPL 102,730 158,072 Financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit and loss FLHfT FVPL 2,382 411 Fair value through other comprehensive income AfS FVOCI 2 2 The book values represent reasonable approximations of the fair Fair values of other non-current financial liabilities are determined values of the assets and liabilities, which is why a separate indicaby referring to the present values of the payments associated with tion of the fair amounts is omitted. the debts. For discounting, term-related commercially available interest rates were used (level 2). Cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables and time deposits mainly have short terms to maturity. Accordingly, their book values For most borrowings, the fair values ​​are not materially different on the reporting date were almost identical to their fair value. from the book values, as interest payments on these borrowings are either close to current market rates or borrowing is short-term. The fair values of other non-current receivables correspond to the present values of the payments related to the assets while taking Derivative financial instruments are used to hedge against currency into account current interest parameters, which reflect marketand risks arising from operative business. These include currency futures partner-related changes in conditions and expectations (level 2). and options inside and outside of hedge accounting. In principle, these instruments are only used for hedging purposes. As is the Other financial investments relate to investments not included in the case with all financial instruments, they are recognized at fair value scope of consolidation. upon initial recognition. The fair values are also relevant for subsequent measurements. The fair value of traded derivative financial Trade payables and other current financial liabilities normally have instruments is identical to the market value. This value may be posishort terms to maturity. The recognized values are almost identical tive or negative. The measurement of forward transactions is based to the fair values. on forward contract rates. The parameters that were used in the valuation models are in line with market data. SMA Solar Technology AG // Annual Report 2018 Notes – Consolidated Financial Statements 107 In the current fiscal year, no market values accounted for in equity The 2018 net results for financial instruments are as follows: were reclassified into the income statement (2017: €2.2 million). In the current financial year, no new transactions were recorded in From From subsequent From Net equity in the context of a hedging relationship. interest measurement disposal result Currency Value translacorrecThe following table shows the allocation of our financial assets and in €’000 tion tion liabilities measured at fair values in the balance sheet using the three levels of the fair value hierarchy: Financial assets ­measured at amortized cost (AC) 716 3,603 –11,918 –370 –7,969 Financial liabilities in €’000 measured at amortized cost (AC) –804 0 0 0 –804 2018 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets Financial assets, measured at fair measured at fair value value through profit and loss (FVPL) 1,185 0 –6,378 –4,326 –9,519 Institutional mutual funds 101,447 0 0 101,447 Financial liabilities Derivative financial measured at fair ­instruments 0 1,283 0 1,283 value through profit and loss (FVPL) –109 0 101 0 –8 Financial liabilities, ­measured at fair value Total 988 3,603 –18,195 –4,696 –18,300 Derivative financial ­instruments 0 2,382 0 2,382 The 2017 net results for financial instruments are as follows: 2017 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets, From From subsequent From Net measured at fair value interest measurement disposal result Institutional mutual funds 150,230 0 0 150,230 Currency Value Derivative financial translacorrec­instruments 0 7,842 0 7,842 in €’000 tion tion Financial liabilities, ­measured at fair value Loans and ­receivables (LaR) 316 –13,003 –711 –240 –13,638 Derivative financial ­instruments 0 411 0 411 Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost (FLAC) –933 0 0 0 –933 Financial assets held for trading (FAHfT) 2,440 0 –6,860 1,621 –2,799 The levels of the fair value hierarchy and their application to our Financial liabilities assets and liabilities are described below. held for trading (FLHfT) –139 0 140 0 1 Level 1: Quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in active Total 1,684 –13,003 –7,431 1,381 –17,369 markets. Level 2: Inputs other than quoted prices that are observable directly Interests from financial instruments are shown in the financial result. (e. g., prices) or indirectly (e. g., derived from prices). The SMA Group recognizes other components of the net result in other operating expenses and other operating income. Level 3: Inputs that are not based on observable market data for assets and liabilities. Annual Report 2018 // SMA Solar Technology AG 108 Consolidated Financial Statements – Notes In detail, the nominal payment obligations of financial liabilities are as follows: in €’000 Book value Total cash flows < 1 year 1 to 3 years 4 to 5 years > 5 years 2018 Trade payables 110,851 110,851 110,851 0 0 0 Financial liabilities 20,415 22,429 6,052 7,446 4,760 4,171 of which from liabilities due to credit institutions 17,881 19,894 3,657 7,306 4,760 4,171 of which from finance lease agreements 152 152 66 86 0 0 of which from derivatives outside of hedge accounting 2,382 2,383 1 2,329 54 0 0 Other financial liabilities 741 741 741 0 0 0 2017 Trade payables 130,433 130,433 130,433 0 0 0 Financial liabilities 20,820 23,659 3,643 7,637 6,096 6,283 of which from liabilities due to credit institutions 20,312 23,140 3,311 7,496 6,068 6,265 of which from finance lease agreements 97 97 42 19 18 18 of which from derivatives outside of hedge accounting 411 422 1 290 122 10 0 of which from derivatives inside hedge accounting 0 0 0 0 10 0 Other financial liabilities 19,987 19,987 19,455 532 0 0 1  ontains the net cash flow from forward exchange transactions amounting to €969k, providing a gross fulfillment. C Payment obligations amount to €98,116k, payment claims amount to €97,147k. The closing rate was used for the conversion of the foreign currency transactions. An average interest rate of 3.46% was used to calculate future 25. Obligations Under Leases and Other cash flows from liabilities due to credit institutions. Financial Obligations The obligations of the SMA Group under operating leases mainly relate to buildings and, to a minor extent, to plant and office equipment. Expenses recognized through profit and loss amounted to €17.2 million in the reporting year (2017: €19.0 million). SMA Solar Technology AG // Annual Report 2018 Notes – Consolidated Financial Statements 109 Other financial obligations arose primarily from tenancy agreeOTHER DISCLOSURES ments and operating leases for buildings, office trailers, plant and office equipment concluded by the Group as the lessee. The terms to maturity of future payments to the end of the minimum term of the agreements are as follows: 28. Events After the Balance Sheet Date in €’000 2018/12/31 2017/12/31 On February 28, 2019, the subsidiaries SMA New Energy Technology (Jiangsu) Co., Ltd. and SMA New Energy TechnolMaturity of less than 1 year 11,945 8,757 ogy ­(Shanghai) Co., Ltd. were sold to Shanghai/Zhuoyou EnterMaturity of 1 to 5 years 19,750 10,241 prise Management Consultation Partnership. The purchase price Maturity of more than 5 years 2,696 3,009 amounted to €0.1 million. Due to variable purchase price receivables, SMA will participate in future profits. 34,391 22,007 29. Related Party Disclosures On the reporting date, there were no material obligations from finance leasing in the SMA Group. According to the definition contained in IAS 24, related persons are persons responsible for planning, controlling and monitoring In addition, there were financial obligations to third parties under the Company’s activities. Related persons include the members of the purchase order commitment for investment orders placed the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board of SMA Solar amounting to €5.2 million (2017: €3.3 million). There were finanTechnology AG as well as their close relatives. By October 15, cial obligations for intangible assets amounting to €8.6 million 2018, the Managing Board of SMA Solar Technology AG had (2017: €2.5 million). The other financial obligations were within comprised the following members: Pierre-Pascal Urbon (Chief the framework customary for the business. Executive Officer, Board Member for Strategy, Sales and Service), Dr.-Ing. Jürgen Reinert (Deputy Chief Executive Officer, Board Member for Operations and Technology) and Ulrich Hadding 26. Contingencies (Board Member for Finance, Human Resources and Legal Affairs). As of December 31, 2018, there were no changes compared to the Pierre-Pascal Urbon left the Company on December 31, 2018, at previous year (€0.05 million). his own request, after having resigned from the Managing Board in agreement with the Supervisory Board on October 15, 2018. On the same date, Dr.-Ing. Jürgen Reinert was appointed Chief 27. Cash and Cash Equivalents Reconciliation Executive Officer of SMA Solar Technology AG and is responsible for Strategy, Sales and Service in addition to Operations and TechFor the purposes of the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, cash nology. Ulrich Hadding continues to be responsible for Finance, and cash equivalents include cash on hand, bank balances and Human Resources and Legal Affairs and has also assumed responshort-term deposits with an original term to maturity of less than three sibility for Investor Relations. months. Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the fiscal year, as presented in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, can be Related persons: reconciled to the corresponding items of the Consolidated Balance In the year under review, the following were members of the Sheet as follows: ­Managing Board of SMA Solar Technology AG: Dr.-Ing. Jürgen Reinert (Chief Executive Officer), Operations and in €’000 2018 2017 Technology, Strategy, Sales and Service Cash on hand and bank balances 136,927 204,188 Ulrich Hadding (Board Member), Finance, HR and Legal Affairs Short-term deposits (maturity < 3 months) 5,710 30,665 Dr.-Ing. Jürgen Reinert sits on the supervisory board of ­Danfoss A/S, 142,637 234,853 Denmark, and in the advisory committee of KraftPowercon, Sweden. Annual Report 2018 // SMA Solar Technology AG 110 Consolidated Financial Statements – Notes In the year under review, the following were members of the Roland Bent, member on the boards of four international Phoenix ­Supervisory Board of SMA Solar Technology AG: Contact companies: Phoenix Contact (China) Holding Co. Ltd.; Phoenix Contact (Nanjing) R&D and Engineering Center Co. Ltd.; Shareholder Representatives: Phoenix Contact Holding Inc., U.S.; and Phoenix Contact DevelopDr. Erik Ehrentraut, Consultant, Chairman ment & Manufacturing Inc., U.S. Kim Fausing, General Manager and CEO Danfoss, Deputy Chairman Kim Fausing, Member of the Board at Hilti AG, Liechtenstein. Roland Bent, General Manager Phoenix Contact Peter Drews, Chairman of the Foundation Managing Board Dr. Matthias Victor, Board of Trustees of the Fraunhofer IWES KasAlexa Hergenröther, Divisional Director sel, Germany. Reiner Wettlaufer, Chairman of the Foundation Managing Board Related entities: Employee Representatives: On May 28, 2014, SMA concluded an agreement regarding a Johannes Häde close strategic partnership with Danfoss A/S. As part of this partYvonne Siebert nership, Danfoss acquired a 20% stake in SMA and therefore now Dr. Matthias Victor also belongs to the group of related entities. SMA entered into a Hans-Dieter Werner strategic partnership with Danfoss in the areas of purchasing, sales Oliver Dietzel, Trade Union Secretary and research and development. SMA also performs services on Heike Haigis, Trade Union Secretary behalf of Danfoss. All agreements were concluded under fair market conditions. The business relationships between SMA and DanRemuneration of key management members of the Group, which foss in the fiscal year are presented in the table below. There is no must be disclosed under IAS 24, includes remuneration of the material collateralization nor are there guarantees. No impairment ­Managing Board and the Supervisory Board. losses were recognized from transactions with Danfoss. The total compensation of the members of the Managing Board in € million 2018 2017 amounted to €2.8 million in the year under review (2017: €3.9 million). The non-performance-related portion amounted to Goods acquired by SMA 35.6 29.0 €2.7 million (2017: €2.7 million), the performance-related portion Services acquired by SMA 7.2 6.0 to €0.2 million (2017: €1.3 million). The benefits are exclusively Services sold by SMA 0.5 1.0 short-term benefits. In the course of his departure, Mr. Urbon Outstanding receivables at the end of the year 0.1 1.0 received the compensation for the non-competition clause in the Outstanding liabilities at the end of the year 6.2 6.0 amount of €2.0 million as a one-off payment. No compensation was granted for tasks in subsidiaries. The total compensation of the members of the Supervisory Board In addition, SMA has a 28.27% stake in Tigo Energy, Inc. SMA amounted to €0.4 million in the year under review (2017: entered into a strategic partnership with Tigo Energy, Inc. in the €0.4 million). Of this amount, €0.3 million (2017: €0.3 million) areas of development, sales and service. SMA has a seat on Tigo was attributable to non-performance-related fixed compensation Energy’s board of directors. The business relationships between and €0.1 million (2017: €0.1 million) to compensation for comSMA and Tigo in the fiscal year are presented in the table below. mittee activities. As in the previous year, no variable compensation is included. Mr. Fausing renounces his claims against society. in € million 2018 2017 The union representatives pay their salaries. The compensation for members of the Managing Board and Supervisory Board is Goods acquired by SMA 7.0 4.0 presented individually in a separate remuneration report in accorOutstanding liabilities at the end of the year 0.0 0.1 dance with the criteria of the Corporate Governance Code. The complete remuneration report is part of the Combined Managemen Report. Another related entity is the cdw foundation, which can be traced Members of the Supervisory Board hold the following positions in back to the founders of SMA, with its operating company cdw statutory supervisory boards and similar controlling bodies of comStiftung gGmbH. No transactions requiring disclosure under mercial enterprises: IAS 24 were made with this entity in the reporting period. SMA Solar Technology AG // Annual Report 2018 Notes – Consolidated Financial Statements 111 30. Objectives and Methods Concerning FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK Financial Risk Management As a globally active company, the SMA Group is exposed to both transaction-related and translation-related foreign currency risks. Financial risk management is integrated into the Group-wide hedging policy. Deliberate treatment of potential risks and sound control SMA assesses risks from an economical point of view. Using this as well as successful management of such risks when they occur point of view, foreign currency risks arise in the form of direct transare supported by an accompanying information and communicaaction risks that derive from any (current or planned) receivable or tion policy as well as by further education and training of employpayable denominated in a foreign currency and the resulting payees. The principle underlying the Group’s hedging policy in the ment flow. The SMA Group’s extensive business activity in North financial field is to protect against significant price, currency and America means that foreign currency risks arise to a great extent in interest risks by means of contracts and hedging transactions to an USD. In light of the fact that a pro-rata portion of the local added economically reasonable extent. value attributable to the North American companies and supplier contracts based on USD is generated locally and sales in the local The financial instruments of the Group relate primarily to trade currency are balanced by expenditure in the local currency, the receivables and cash resulting directly from operating activities. operational foreign currency risk in the SMA Group is limited. In addition, there is a particular amount of trade payables that also arise from operating activities. The Group also uses derivative Currency risks also arise, in particular, from the sales activity of financial instruments as part of exchange and interest rate hedging. our Japanese subsidiary. The Group’s main risks in relation to financial instruments are interest-based cash flow risks as well as liquidity, currency and credit An intra-Group guideline ensures that SMA companies report risks. The strategies and procedures for controlling individual types their foreign currency risks to Corporate Treasury, provided there of risks defined in the context of the Group’s overall hedging policy are no country-specific restrictions in this regard. The remaining are presented below. Group-wide risk is hedged by Corporate Treasury through the use of currency derivatives concluded externally with banks. Forward exchange transactions are the most commonly used method in this INTEREST RATE RISK case. The use of options as part of the hedging strategy is also possible. Interest rate risks within the SMA Group mainly arise in the case of financial liabilities and non-current portions of certain provisions. Translation risks mainly occur when the assets and liabilities of subInterest on liabilities and provisions is not paid by the contracting sidiaries denominated in a foreign currency are converted to the party and is therefore discounted at the interest rate usual in the parent company’s domestic currency when preparing the Consolimarket, which means that there is no separate control of the interest dated Financial Statements. Translation risks are not included within rate risk. The variable interest-bearing portion of existing financial the scope of the active control of foreign currency risks. liabilities is secured through an interest rate swap. This ensures that interest rates are hedged in the long term and allows financing Items denominated in foreign currencies and the development of costs to be reliably calculated over the contract’s term. The followthe exchange rate of those currencies are monitored continuously ing sensitivities can be calculated for the financial instruments held and the risks are hedged, provided this is economically reasonon the balance sheet date: able. The risks from hedging transactions in themselves are limited to the possibility that opportunities arising from a better price perIf the market interest rate had increased by 1.0 percentage point, formance cannot be realized. the impact on the period result would have been neutral (2017: €0.1 million). The effect on equity in relation to the market valuaTo present market risks, IFRS 7 requires sensitivity analyses which tion of financial instruments of the available-for-sale category would show the effects of hypothetical changes in relevant risk variables have been also neutral (December 31, 2017: neutral). When on earnings and equity. Currency risks are caused by financial calculating sensitivities with regard to a decline in interest rates of instruments that are denominated in a currency other than the 1.0 percentage point, the effect on period earnings would have functional currency and which are of a monetary nature; differbeen neutral (2017: –€0.1 million), and the effect on equity would ences related to exchange rates from the translation of financial have been neutral as well (December 31, 2017: neutral). statements into the Group currency are not taken into account. The U.S. dollar is deemed to be a relevant risk variable. The currency sensitivity analysis is based on original financial instruments in the Annual Report 2018 // SMA Solar Technology AG 112 Consolidated Financial Statements – Notes form of receivables. Through the use of hedging transactions (derivCREDIT RISK atives), which are designed to hedge the underlying transaction, the opposing effects that accompany changes in the exchange rate For all deliveries to customers, collateral is requested depending on of the USD are evened out. Notwithstanding, measurement of the the volume of the respective transaction and the specific customer hedging transactions concluded for the 2019 fiscal year results in and country risk. Data from the customer’s previous business relaa negative contribution to earnings of –€1.0 million from fair value tionship, including payment practices and additional credit reports, measurement (2017: €7.7 million). are also used to avoid non-payment. In addition, the Group performs a customer credit check, which is based on certain financial An increase of 5% in the euro with respect to the USD on Decemkey ratios. By setting a credit limit in a timely manner or suspendber 31, 2018, would have led to a positive change in the currency ing orders, the Group avoids being exposed to a significant risk derivatives of €4.0 million (2017: €9.4 million). A decrease of 5% of non-payment. If possible, the default risk is also limited by comin the euro on December 31, 2018, would have led to a reducmercial credit insurance. The maximum non-payment risk is limited tion in the value of the currency derivatives of €4.5 million (2017: to the book value disclosed in section “14, Trade Receivables and –€10.4 million). Other Receivables”. There are no major concentrations of non-payment risks within the Group. An increase of 5% in the euro with respect to the JPY on December 31, 2018, would have led to a positive change in the currency With respect to all of the Group’s other financial assets, such as derivatives of €0.6 million (2017: €1.5 million). A decrease of 5% cash and cash equivalents, available-for-sale financial investments in the euro on December 31, 2018, would have led to a reducand derivative financial instruments, the maximum credit risk, tion in the value of the currency derivatives of €0.7 million (2017: should the counterparty fail to pay, corresponds to the book value –€1.7 million). of these instruments. This counterparty default risk is analyzed on a continuous basis and managed by means of corresponding busiAs of December 31, 2018, the currency hedges related to EUR/ ness allocation – also taking into account potential opportunities – USD and EUR/JPY. with regard to cluster risks and credit risks. As of December 31, 2018, there were no currency hedgings that were shown in hedge accounting as in the previous year. LIQUIDITY RISK Pursuant to IFRS, currency risks affect monetary financial instruOne element of liquidity protection is the credit line of €100 million ments that are denominated in a foreign currency (i. e., in a agreed upon with three domestic banks in 2016. At the end of ­currency other than the functional currency). This means that the 2018, only a small portion of the credit line was utilized in the form foreign currency is the relevant risk variable. Translation-related of guarantee credits. risks are not taken into account. Because the individual Group ­companies mainly conduct their operative business in their own The Company uses financial planning tools for early detection of functional currency, we rate the risk from exchange rate fluctuafuture liquidity requirements. According to current planning, it can tions resulting from our ongoing business activity as insignificant. be assumed that the financial requirements will be covered in a reliably predictable time frame. Insurance contracts are concluded to hedge against the financial consequences of possible liability risks and damage claims, insofar as this is reasonable and ­possible. The cover provided by such contracts is reviewed and adapted regularly. SMA Solar Technology AG // Annual Report 2018 Notes – Consolidated Financial Statements 113 CAPITAL MANAGEMENT 32. Declaration on the German Corporate The strategic objective of capital management within the SMA Governance Code in Accordance With Group is to ensure financial flexibility and independence to make Section 161 AktG rapid use of the opportunities in a photovoltaic market characterized by strong growth. Profitable employment of the capital The declaration required under Section 161 AktG on the recommenis measured through regular monitoring of net working capital. dations issued by the Government Commission German Corporate Within the SMA Group, net working capital is defined as the sum Governance Code was given by the Managing Board and the Superof inventories and trade receivables less trade payables. To be visory Board on December 6, 2018, and made permanently available to usefully measure relative capital consumption even in the able to shareholders on the SMA website at www.SMA.de. event of strong corporate growth, net working capital is expressed in relation to sales. Through debtor management, which ensures that receivables are collected in good time, and linking invento33. Consolidated Financial Statements ries to sales as well as a constant dividend policy, the Company positions itself to achieve its objectives of financial flexibility and As the supreme parent company, SMA Solar Technology AG preindependence. In accordance with our intra-Group guidelines, the pared the Consolidated Financial Statements as of December 31, net working capital ratio determined in this way has to be below 2018, which are filed with the operator of the Electronic Federal 25%. In the reporting year, the equity ratio of the SMA Group Gazette and subsequently published in the Electronic Federal was 43.0% (2017: 50.3%) and the net working capital ratio was Gazette. 23.3% (2017: 18.8%). Niestetal, March 5, 2019 31. Auditor’s Fees SMA Solar Technology AG The Managing Board The fees paid to the auditor and recorded as an expense in the year under review break down as follows: Dr.-Ing. Jürgen Reinert Ulrich Hadding in €’000 2018 Financial statement auditing 407 Other services 12 419 The cost of financial statement auditing comprises the fees for the audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements as well as for the audit of the Financial Statements of SMA Solar Technology AG and its domestic subsidiaries, provided they are obligated to perform an audit pursuant to Section 316 of the German Commercial Code. The fees for audit-related services and other audit work mainly include expenses for EMIR audits. Annual Report 2018 // SMA Solar Technology AG 114 Consolidated Financial Statements – Responsibility Statement RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT We assure to the best of our knowledge that, in accordance with the applicable accounting standards, the Consolidated Financial Statements give a fair view of the net assets, financial position and results of operations of the Group and that the Consolidated Management Report gives a fair view of the course of business including the results of operations and the Group’s position and describes the fundamental opportunities and risks of the probable development of the Group. Niestetal, March 5, 2019 SMA Solar Technology AG The Managing Board Dr.-Ing. Jürgen Reinert Ulrich Hadding SMA Solar Technology AG // Annual Report 2018 Independent Auditor’s Report – Consolidated Financial Statements 115 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Translation – the German text is authoritative) To SMA Solar Technology AG, Niestetal In accordance with Section 322 (3) Sentence 1 of the HGB, we declare that our audit did not raise any objections against the correctness of the Consolidated Financial Statements and the ComNOTE ABOUT THE AUDIT OF THE CONbined Management Report. SOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT Basis for the audit opinion We performed our audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements Audit Opinion and the Combined Management Report in accordance with Section 317 of the HGB and the EU regulation on statutory audits We audited the Consolidated Financial Statements of SMA Solar of public interest entities (no. 537/2014) in consideration of the Technology AG, Niestetal, Germany, and its subsidiaries (the generally accepted standards for financial audits in Germany as Group) – which consisted of the consolidated balance sheet as defined by the Institute of Public Auditors (IDW). Our responsibility of December 31, 2018, consolidated income statement, consoliunder these provisions and standards is described in more detail in dated statement of cash flows and the consolidated equity change the “Responsibility of the auditor to check the Consolidated Finanstatement for the fiscal year from January 1 to December 31, cial Statements and the Combined Management Report” section of 2018, as well as the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Stateour auditor’s report. We are independent of the Group compaments, including a summary of the relevant accounting methods. nies in compliance with EU law provisions, German commercial In addition, we audited the Consolidated Management Report of law and the German rules of professional conduct, and we have SMA Solar Technology AG, Niestetal, including the Management fulfilled our professional obligations applicable in Germany in Report of the parent company for the fiscal year from January 1 to accordance with these requirements. Furthermore, in accordance December 31, 2018. The contents of the sections of the Combined with Article 10, Paragraph 2 f) of the EU regulation on statutory Management Report mentioned in the annex to the auditor’s report audits of public interest entities, we declare that we did not render have not been audited in accordance with German law. any prohibited non-audit services as per Article 5, Paragraph 1 of the EU regulation on statutory audits of public-interest entities. We In our opinion, based on the findings of the audit: believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and suitable to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the Consoli→→ T he Consolidated Financial Statements attached comply with dated Financial Statement and the Combined Management Report. the IFRS as adopted by the EU in all material respects and the additional requirements of the German statutory provisions pursuant to Section 315e (1) of the HGB, and gives a true and fair Key audit matters in the Consolidated picture of the assets and financial position of the Group as of ­Financial Statements audit December 31, 2018, and its results of operations for the fiscal year from January 1 to December 31, 2018, in accordance Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgewith these requirements. ment, were of most significance in our audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements for the financial year January 1, 2018 to →→ A s a whole, the Combined Management Report attached proDecember 31, 2018. These matters were considered as a whole in vides a suitable illustration of the Group’s position. In all mateconjunction with our audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements rial respects, this Combined Management Report is consistent and also taken into account when we formed our audit opinion. We with the Consolidated Financial Statements, complies with Gerdo not provide a separate audit opinion on these matters. man statutory provisions and suitably presents the opportunities and risks of future developments. Our audit opinion on the Combined Management Report does not include the contents of the sections of the Combined Management Report mentioned in the annex to the auditor’s report. Annual Report 2018 // SMA Solar Technology AG 116 Consolidated Financial Statements – Independent Auditor’s Report Below, we outline the key audit matters from our point of view: first-time revenue recognition in accordance with IFRS 15 by reviewing the accounting guideline and its implementation by 1. Realization of revenue on an accrual basis particularly in accorway of sample-based contract inspections. With regard to the dance with IFRS 15 high-risk Incoterms, random checks were performed before and 2. Evaluation of the general warranty provision after the balance sheet date by comparing postings on the rev3. Assessment of deferred tax assets enue accounts with the corresponding outgoing invoices along 4. Evaluation of inventories with the proof of delivery as well as cut-off audit procedures. We have structured our presentation of these key audit matters as follows: 2. EVALUATION OF THE GENERAL WARRANTY PROVISION a) Description of key audit matter (including reference to related a) In the Consolidated Financial Statements under the balance information in the Consolidated Financial Statements) sheet item “Provisions,” provisions for statutory warranties totaling €130,433,000 (i. e., 13% of the consolidated balance b) Auditing procedure sheet total) are stated in the accounts, of which €91,052,000 represents general warranty risks and €39,381,000 represents individual circumstances. 1. REALIZATION OF REVENUE ON AN ACCRUAL BASIS In June 2018, the previous estimate for calculating the gena) Total sales of €760,934,000 are stated in the accounts from the eral warranty provision was changed using a Group-wide cost supply of solar inverters and the associated equipment as well ratio based on historical values and the assumption of a linear as service provisions and maintenance services. With this item distribution of repairs over the entire fiveto ten-year warranty of significant amount, there is a risk that the revenue will not be period. According to an extensive analysis by the Company’s realized at the correct time, especially when close to the reportQuality Management department, the error patterns for each ing date. Particularly with regard to the delivery of solar invertequipment group can be ascertained on the basis of error hisers, for which an Incoterm must be agreed upon as a delivery tories by evaluating existing records. In addition, specific cost condition and according to which, unlike the standard process, rates for the error patterns for each equipment group can be the transfer of risk takes place only in the target country, there determined via new evaluations of cost accounting. As a conis the risk of premature revenue recognition. An additional risk sequence of the newly acquired options for measuring future regarding revenue recognition on an accrual basis results from expected damage at equipment group level, the legal representhe first-time application of the rules of IFRS 15. tatives modified the accounting practice (change in estimates in accordance with IAS 8.32 et seq.). This resulted in a reversal of Due to the risk of revenue recognition on a non-accrual basis in the general warranty provision totaling €33.5 million as of the relation to IFRS 15 and the intrinsic fraud risk, we have defined transition date. the realization of revenue as a whole as well as in relation to certain Incoterms, in particular, as a key audit matter. Because of the risk of an erroneous evaluation of the general warranty provision resulting from the changed estimation method The information on sales provided by the legal representatives and due to the size of the amount reversed (€33.5 million), we can be found especially in the sections “Accounting Methods identified the measurement of general warranty provisions as a and Amendments of Accounting Standards,” “Segment Reportkey audit matter. ing,” “Other Financial Liabilities” and “Other Liabilities” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Information from SMA Solar Technology AG’s legal representatives on the general warranty provisions can be found in the b) For risk assessment, we assessed the results of the internal audit sections “Disclosures to the Accounting and Valuation Policies,” concerning this matter. In our audit, we then evaluated the “Significant Judgements, Estimates and Assumptions” and “Proviappropriate implementation of revenue realization, in particular sions” in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. through a structural and functional check of the sales process and analytical validation of the revenue split up according to business units. We also ascertained the implementation of the SMA Solar Technology AG // Annual Report 2018 Independent Auditor’s Report – Consolidated Financial Statements 117 b) As a first step, we determined the change in the estimation of b) We evaluated the suitability of the assessment procedure. To general warranty provisions based on explanations from the this end, we were satisfied with the future taxable income and Company’s Quality Management employees and documents on expenses predicted for the calculation after comparing these how error patterns for each equipment group are determined. figures with the current plan values from the business plan In particular, we checked the completeness of actual warranty approved by the legal representatives and the supervisory body. claims resulting from reported damage and made sure that As well as internal tax experts, we also involved specialists from allocation of the respective error patterns to the relevant equipDeloitte USA LLP in the audit team to assess the deferred tax ment groups was correct. In addition, we examined the selected assets of the American subgroup. This was based on analyses forecast method and reviewed it with regard to completeness prepared by long-standing external consultants. and correctness of the quantity component (number of expected warranty cases). To assess the reliability of the estimates for As part of our audit, we evaluated the deferred taxes accounted error pattern frequency, we compared the historical forecasts for in the annual financial statements of the Group companies with the actual events of damage in the past. Subsequently, we with regard to their feasibility. In particular, we also assessed checked the accuracy of the calculation of costs for remediawhether the assumptions of the legal representatives with regard tion of expected damage. To this end, we inspected the cost to the full recoverable amount of the deferred tax assets were accounting for full allocation of warranty costs to the individual reasonable. error patterns. More specifically, in the review of total costs per claim for each equipment group, we assured that recognition of direct costs was correct and inclusion of indirect costs was 4. EVALUATION OF INVENTORIES appropriate. a) Inventories totaling €193,795,000 (i. e., 20% of the consoliIn addition, we checked the completeness of the relevant disdated balance sheet total) are stated in the accounts. This takes closures relating to a change in estimates in accordance with into account value adjustments totaling €45,183,000, which IAS 8. are formed, in particular, in the event of low inventory turnover. In addition, devaluations for discontinued products and surplus inventories of materials unrelated to specific products are also 3. ASSESSMENT OF DEFERRED TAX ASSETS included as these inventories are no longer likely to be used in the production process based on the days in inventory analysis a) In the Consolidated Financial Statements under the balance performed. SMA uses a time horizon of 36 months for the usage sheet item “Deferred tax assets,” deferred tax assets totalof the item to calculate excess inventories. All inventory items ing €31,928,000 are stated in the accounts (i. e., 3% of the not needed for the next 12 months are value adjusted at 100%. consolidated balance sheet). For the most part, this comprises Material management and the determination of discontinuations deferred tax liabilities on the basis of temporary differences is the responsibility of the established steering committees and within the American subgroup. By contrast to the previous year, Launch Management. deferred taxes from loss carryforwards represent €0 (previous year: €13,244,000). Deferred tax assets are recorded for all We determined this as a key audit matter because impairments temporary differences and unused loss carryforwards to the and risks resulting from the scope for decisions of judgement in extent that it is probable that this could actually be used in the the inventory valuation regarding this item of significant amount future. Determining the amount of deferred tax assets involves for the Consolidated Financial Statements are considerable. a significant exercise of judgement by the legal representatives regarding the expected time of accrual and the amount of taxInformation from SMA Solar Technology AG’s legal represenable income in the future as well as strategic tax planning, which tatives on the inventory value adjustments can be found in the is why it is subject to considerable uncertainty. For this reason, sections “Disclosures to the Accounting and Valuation Policies” we have considered the assessment of deferred taxes as a key and “Inventories” in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial audit matter. Statements. Information from SMA Solar Technology AG’s legal representatives on deferred taxes can be found in the sections “Significant Judgements, Estimates and Assumptions” and “Income Taxes” in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Annual Report 2018 // SMA Solar Technology AG 118 Consolidated Financial Statements – Independent Auditor’s Report b) As part of the audit of the valuation of the inventories, we Responsibility of the legal representatives and attached particular importance to performing a structural and functional check to assess the correct use of the Group-specific the Supervisory Board for the Consolidatdevaluation regulations by the system within the scope of tested Financial Statements and the Combined ing the lowest values according to turnover for raw materials, ­Management Report consumables and supplies as well as unfinished and finished goods. In the case of materials that have been discontinued or The legal representatives are responsible for the preparation of that are part of a discontinued product, we were satisfied with the Consolidated Financial Statements, which comply with the IFRS the correct execution of the exclusivity test, which is performed as applicable in the EU and the additional statutory regulations by Supply Chain Management in cooperation with Controlling applicable in Germany as per Section 315e (1) of the HGB in all and Sales and forms the basis for the respective discontinuation material respects, and for ensuring that the Consolidated Financial as well as the days in inventory analysis, including the resulting Statements give a true and fair picture of the net assets, financial value adjustments posted. Subsequently, we checked whether position and results of operations of the Group in compliance with the devaluations determined from the lowest value tests were these requirements. Furthermore, the legal representatives are considered to be correct and complete as per the inventory responsible for the internal controls they have deemed necessary to valuation. enable preparation of a Consolidated Financial Statements that are free of material misstatements, whether intentional or unintentional. Other information When preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements, the legal representatives are responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to The legal representatives are responsible for other information. The continue with its business activity. In addition, they are in charge other information includes: of disclosing any matters related to the continuation of the business activity, where relevant. Furthermore, they are responsible for →→ T he sections of the Combined Management Report mentioned reporting on the continuation of the business activity based on the in the annex to the auditor’s report, the content of which has not accounting policy unless there is an intention to liquidate the Group been audited or cease business operations, or if there is no realistic alternative. →→ T he responsibility statement of the legal representatives on the The legal representatives are also responsible for preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements and Consolidated ManageCombined Management Report, which provides an accurate view ment Report according to Section 297 (2) Sentence 4, resp. of the Group’s position overall, is consistent with the Consolidated Section 315 (1) Sentence 5 of the HGB Financial Statements in all material respects, complies with German law and suitably presents the risks and opportunities of future →→ T he other sections of the Annual Report, with the exception of development. Moreover, the legal representatives are responsible the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and the Comfor the precautions and measures (systems) that they considered bined Management Report as well as our auditor’s report necessary to enable the preparation of a Combined Management Report in compliance with the applicable legal regulations in GerOur audit opinions on the Consolidated Financial Statements and many and the provision of suitable evidence for statements made in the Combined Management Report do not extend to the other the Combined Management Report. information and, accordingly, we do not provide an audit opinion or any other kind of audit conclusion on them. The Supervisory Board is responsible for monitoring the accounting process of the Group for preparing the Consolidated Financial In connection with our audit of the Consolidated Financial StateStatements and the Combined Management Report. ments, we have a responsibility to read the other information and, in doing so, to assess whether the other information: →→ D  emonstrates any significant inconsistencies with the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Combined Management Report or the knowledge that we have acquired from the audit →→ Otherwise appears incorrect SMA Solar Technology AG // Annual Report 2018 Independent Auditor’s Report – Consolidated Financial Statements 119 Responsibility of the auditor to check the →→ W  e assess the appropriateness of the accounting methods applied by the legal representatives as well as the tenability ­Consolidated Financial Statements and the of the values estimated by the legal representatives and the Combined Management Report related information. Our aim is to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the →→ W  e draw conclusions about the appropriateness of the accountConsolidated Financial Statements as a whole are free of material ing policy for the continuation of business activity used by misstatements – whether intentional or unintentional – as well as the legal representatives and, based on the audit evidence whether the Combined Management Report provides an accurate acquired, whether a material uncertainty exists in connection view of the Group’s position overall, is consistent with the Consolwith occurrences or circumstances, which may raise signifiidated Financial Statements and any knowledge gained from the cant doubts about the ability of the Group to continue with audit in all material respects, complies with German law, suitably its business activity. If we reach the conclusion that a material presents the risks and opportunities of future development, and to uncertainty exists, we are obliged to draw attention to the releprovide an auditor’s report containing our audit opinions on the vant information in the Consolidated Financial Statements and Consolidated Financial Statements and the Combined Managethe Combined Management Report in the auditor’s report or, ment Report. if these statements are inadequate, modify our respective audit opinion. We draw our conclusions based on the audit evidence Reasonable assurance is a high degree of certainty but no guaranobtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future tee that an audit performed in compliance with Section 317 of the occurrences or circumstances can result in the Group no longer HGB and the EU regulation on statutory audits of public interest being able to continue with its business activity. entities in consideration of the generally accepted standards for financial audits in Germany as defined by the Institute of Public →→ W  e assess the overview, structure and content of the ConsoliAuditors (IDW) will always reveal a material misstatement. Misdated Financial Statements, including the information provided, statements may result from inaccuracies or infringements and are and check whether the Consolidated Financial Statements presconsidered material if it could be reasonably expected for them to ent the underlying business transactions and occurrences in such influence the economic decisions made by the addressees, whether a way that the Consolidated Financial Statements give a true individually or as a whole, based on these Consolidated Financial and fair picture of the net assets, financial position and results of Statements and Combined Management Report. operations of the Group in accordance with the IFRS as applicable in the EU and the additional statutory regulations applicable During the audit, we exercise professional judgement and maintain in Germany as per Section 315e (1) of the HGB. a critical stance. Furthermore: →→ W  e obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence for the →→ W e identify and assess the risks of material misstatements – accounting information of the companies or business activities whether intentional or unintentional – in the Consolidated Finanwithin the Group in order to provide audit opinions on the Concial Statements and the Combined Management Report, plan solidated Financial Statements and the Combined Management and implement audit procedures as a response to these risks Report. We are responsible for guiding, monitoring and impleand gather audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to menting the audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements. We serve as the basis for our audit opinions. The risk that matebear sole responsibility for our audit opinions. rial misstatements will not be revealed is higher in the event of infringements as opposed to inaccuracies because infringements →→ W  e assess the correlation of the Combined Management Report may include fraudulent collaboration, forgeries, intentional with the Consolidated Financial Statements, its compliance with incompleteness, misleading representations, or the bypassing of the law and the view of the Group’s position conveyed by it. internal controls. →→ W  e subject the forward-looking statements presented by the →→ W e gain an understanding of the internal control system relelegal representatives in the Combined Management Report to vant to the audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements and audit procedures. In particular, we use sufficient and suitable of the precautions and measures relevant to the audit of the audit evidence to trace the significant assumptions on which Combined Management Report in order to plan audit activities the forward-looking statements are based and assess the that are appropriate for the given circumstances. However, we proper deduction of the forward-looking statements stemming do not aim to provide an audit opinion on the effectiveness of from these assumptions. We do not provide a separate audit these systems. opinion on the forward-looking statements or the underlying assumptions. There is a significant unavoidable risk that future occurrences may differ significantly from the forward-looking statements. Annual Report 2018 // SMA Solar Technology AG 120 Consolidated Financial Statements – Independent Auditor’s Report Among other things, we discuss the planned scope and timing of RESPONSIBLE AUDITOR the audit with those responsible for overseeing it as well as significant audit findings, including any deficiencies in the internal control The auditor responsible for the audit is Elmar Meier. system that we identify during our audit. Hannover, March 5, 2019 We provide those responsible for overseeing the audit with a declaration that we have satisfied the relevant independence Deloitte GmbH requirements and discuss with them all the relationships and other Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft circumstances that could reasonably be expected to affect our independence and the precautions taken for this purpose. (Schwibinger) (Meier) German Public Auditor German Public Auditor From the matters we discussed with those responsible for overseeing the audit, we determine those that were most significant to the audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements for the current reporting period and are therefore the key audit matters. We Annex to the auditor’s report: Sections of the describe these key audit matters in the auditor’s report unless the Combined Management Report, the content public disclosure of a key matter is ruled out by law or other statuof which has not been audited tory provisions. We have not audited the content of the following sections of the OTHER LEGAL AND STATUTORY Combined Management Report: ­REQUIREMENTS →→ T he Corporate Governance Statement in accordance with Section 289f HGB and Section 315d HGB contained in the Corporate Governance Report in accordance with No. 3.10 of the Remaining information in accordance with German Corporate Governance Code Article 10 of the EU regulation on statutory →→ T he non-financial statement according to Sections 289b to audits of public interest entities 289e and 315b and 315c of the HGB, which is contained in the section “Non-Financial Statement” in the Combined ManWe were selected as the Group auditor at the Annual General agement Report Meeting on May 24, 2018. We were commissioned by the Supervisory Board on July 4, 2018. We have worked continuously as a →→ T he other sections of the Combined Management Report Group auditor for SMA Solar Technology AG, Niestetal since fiscal marked as unaudited year 2009. We hereby declare that the audit opinions contained in this auditor’s report conform with the additional report submitted to the audit committee in accordance with Article 11 of the EU regulation on statutory audits of public interest entities (auditor’s report). SMA Solar Technology AG // Annual Report 2018 OTHER INFORMATION 122 GLOSSARY 122 Technical Glossary 124 Financial Glossary 126 GRI INDEX AND UN GLOBAL C ­ OMPACT PRINCIPLES 128 SUSTAINABILITY KEY FIGURES 130 REGISTERED TRADEMARKS 130 DISCLAIMER 122 Other Information – Glossary GLOSSARY TECHNICAL GLOSSARY A G AC (Alternating Current) Grid Management Grid-compliant current For decentralized generation plants, participation in grid management means that they have to adapt their feed-in to meet current grid distribution capacities. It affects all PV systems feeding in at medium voltage level. C Central Inverter Inverters for large-scale PV power plants that are used with I ­centralized design concepts Inverter Change-of-Control Clause An electrical device that converts direct into alternating voltage Provision in the board member and management employment or direct into alternating current ­contracts that provides a special termination right in case of a change of ownership or a change in majority shareholders, ­usually against payment of a firmly agreed compensation, continued payment of remuneration, often also a corresponding pension provision M Compliance Medium Voltage Legally compliant conduct Voltage range from 1,000 V to 60,000 V Corporate Governance Procedures for managing and controlling companies in a manner that is responsible and aimed at long-term value creation P PV-Diesel Hybrid Systems So-called PV-diesel hybrid systems combine photovoltaics with D ­diesel generators and if applicable with battery storage ­systems. Integration of photovoltaics and storage systems into diesel DC (Direct Current) power supply systems substantially reduces fuel costs and carbon Direct current must be converted to grid-compliant alternating ­emissions. PV-diesel hybrid systems are used mainly where an ­current (AC) for the grid supply or household use. energy supply is not possible via a central utility grid. SMA Solar Technology AG // Annual Report 2018 Glossary – Other Information 123 R W Repowering W, kW, MW, GW Modernization of older PV systems with new software and hardUnits of power: ware components to enhance performance and optional extension 1 kilowatt (kW) = 1,000 watts (W) with further functionalities such as storage or energy management 1 megawatt (MW) = 1,000 kilowatts 1 gigawatt (GW) = 1,000 megawatts Wp S Abbreviation for watt peak. Unit used for the standardized rated power of a photovoltaic cell or a photovoltaic module under Smart Module Technology/Module-Level Power Electronics (MLPE) ­stand­ard conditions. With module-level power electronics, individual PV system ­modules that are affected by shading, for example, can be ­flexibly equipped with additional functions. This module technology can be used in individual modules when trees or chimneys cause ­partial shading, when modules are placed at different angles or for detailed monitoring at the module level. String Inverter With string technology, the PV generator is divided into individual module areas, and each of these individual “strings” is assigned its own string inverter. U UL 1741 The UL 1741 standard identifies inverter ­functions required for ­optimal grid stability. Annual Report 2018 // SMA Solar Technology AG 124 Other Information – Glossary FINANCIAL GLOSSARY E G EBIT Gross Cash Flow Earnings before interest and taxes Shows the operating income prior to any commitment of funds. It is calculated by considering earnings before income tax and EBITDA the financial result – plus interest received, depreciation and Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ­amortization, changes in other provisions, profit/loss from the ­disposal of fixed assets and other non-cash expenses/revenues EBIT Margin less interest paid and income tax paid. The higher the percentage, the higher the earnings power. The EBIT margin is calculated by putting operating profit in relation to sales. Gross Profit Sales minus cost of sales EBITDA Margin The higher the percentage, the higher the earnings power. The EBITDA margin is calculated by putting EBITDA in relation to sales. I EBT Earnings before taxes IAS International Accounting Standards; newer standards refer to the Equity Ratio initials IFRS. Shows the share of equity in total assets. IASB International Accounting Standards Board F IFRIC Interpretations of the International Financial Reporting InterpretaFree Cash Flow tions Committee on IAS/IFRS Operating cash flow minus investments plus negative investments in fixed and intangible assets. Free cash flow is important because IFRS it allows a company to pay dividends or to buy back shares. International Financial Reporting Standards defined by the IASB ­Therefore, free cash flow is a measure of how much cash can be paid to the shareholders of a company. Free Cash Flow (Adjusted) N Operating cash flow minus investments plus negative investments in fixed and intangible assets before cash inflows or outflows from Net Cash time deposits or investments in securities. Adjusted free cash flow Liquid funds and securities contained within working capital and is an indicator of ability to repay debt financing. cash on hand pledged as collatoral less interest-bearing financial liabilities Net Cash Flow From Financing Activities Outflow/inflow of liquid funds from equity financing and debt financing Net Cash Flow From Investing Activities Outflow/inflow of liquid funds from investments and disinvestments SMA Solar Technology AG // Annual Report 2018 Glossary – Other Information 125 Net Cash Flow From Operating Activities Outflow/inflow of liquid funds, unaffected by investments, ­disinvestments and financing activities Net Working Capital The total amount of short-term, interest-free working capital (inventories plus trade receivables) less trade payables and liabilities from advanced payments received for orders Net Working Capital Ratio Net working capital in relation to net sales O Operating Profit (EBIT) Earnings before interest and taxes Order Backlog This includes current sales and sales expected in the future. In this context, the requirements for all orders pending delivery and ­deliveries that have already been made but not yet posted as goods issue are taken into account based on their volume and value. R Return on Assets (After Taxes) The return on assets (after taxes) is the consolidated net profit divided by the average total assets of the reporting period (­average of total assets at the beginning and end of the reporting period). Return on Equity (After Taxes) The return on equity (after taxes) is the consolidated net profit divided by the averaged total equity for the reporting period (average of total equity at the beginning and end of the reporting period). Return on Sales Ratio of EBT to sales Annual Report 2018 // SMA Solar Technology AG 126 Other Information – GRI Index and UN Global ­Compact Principles GRI INDEX AND UN GLOBAL ­COMPACT PRINCIPLES UN Sustain­ UN Sustain­ able Deable DeGRI UN Global velopment GRI UN Global velopment GRI Content ­Indicator Compact Goals Page GRI Content ­Indicator Compact Goals Page Organization Profile Determination of report contents 102-46 35 Name of the organization 102-1 26, 83 List of key issues 102-47 35 Key markets, products and services 102-2 27 Content-related changes to the last report 102-48 34 Countries of operation 102-3 83 Changes to key issues Headquarters of the to the last report 102-49 34 ­organization 102-4 82, 131 Report Profile Ownership structure and legal form 102-5 26, 83 Reporting period 102-50 34 Markets served 102-6 28, 45 Publication of last report 102-51 34 Size of the organization 102-7 40, 83 Report cycle 102-52 34 Number of employees 102-8 6 40 Contact persons 102-53 131 Description of the supply chain 102-9 44 GRI reporting standard 102-54 34 Changes during the reporting GRI Content Index 102-55 34, 126 period 102-10 26 – 67 Review of the report by Implementation of the ­external third party 102-56 115 ­precautionary principle 102-11 34 Management Approach Support of external charters 102-12 34, 43 Explanation of material topics Membership in associations 102-13 44 and their boundaries 103-1 35, 36 Strategy and Analysis Management approach and its components 103-2 36 Statement from the ­organization’s most senior Evaluation of the management decision-maker 102-14 2, 34 approach 103-3 36 Description of key impacts, Economics risks and opportunities 102-15 58 – 67 Directly generated and 45 – 57, Ethics and Integrity ­distributed economic value 201-1 9 9 128 Mission statements, code of Financial consequences conduct and principles 102-16 10 16 43 of climate change 201-2 7–9 7, 11, 13 37, 128 Corporate Governance Comparison of standard starting salaries with local Management structure and minimum wage 202-1 6 8 42 highest governance body 102-18 1–10 16, 26 Type and scope of indirect Stakeholder Involvement economic effects 203-2 7, 11, 13 37 Stakeholder groups involved 102-40 35 Business units inspected Employees with collective for corruption risks 205-1 10 16 43, 129 agreements 102-41 41 Anti-corruption training Identification of the stakeholder for employees 205-2 10 16 43, 129 groups involved 102-42 35 Anti-corruption measures 205-3 10 16 43 Approach to stakeholder 35, 37, Ecology dialogue and frequency 102-43 44 Materials used by weight Key stakeholder concerns or volume 301-1 7–9 38 and views 102-44 35 Proportion of recycling material Key Issues and Limitations in total usage 301-2 8, 9 37 List of consolidated companies 102-45 83 Returned products and packaging 301-3 7, 8, 9 9, 12 37 SMA Solar Technology AG // Annual Report 2018 GRI Index and UN Global ­Compact Principles – Other Information 127 UN Sustain­ UN Sustain­ able Deable DeGRI UN Global velopment GRI UN Global velopment GRI Content ­Indicator Compact Goals Page GRI Content ­Indicator Compact Goals Page Direct energy consumption 302-1 7–9 3, 7, 12, 13 39 Worker health promotion 403-6 1 8 43 Indirect energy consumption 302-2 8, 9 3, 7, 12, 13 38, 39 Prevention 403-7 1 8 43 Energy intensity 302-3 8, 9 3, 7, 12, 13 39 Training time per employee 404-1 4, 8 41 Reduction of energy Program for knowledge man­consumption 302-4 8, 9 3, 7, 12, 13 39 agement and life-long learning 404-2 8 41 Reduction of energy Employee and governance ­requirements for products 302-5 7–9 3, 7, 12, 13 38, 39 body diversity 405-1 6 5 42, 129 Total water consumption 303-1 7, 8 38, 128 Risk to freedom of association 407-1 1, 2, 3 8 43 Land use in and on the Prevention of child labor 408-1 1, 2, 5 8 43 borders of protected areas 304-1 8 38 Prevention of forced labor 409-1 1, 2, 4, 5 8 43 Effect of products and ­production on biodiversity 304-2 8 38 Inspection of business units for human rights violations 412-1 1, 2, 4, 5 43 Direct greenhouse gas emissions 305-1 7, 8, 9 3, 13, 15 38, 128 Investment agreements with human rights clauses 412-3 1–6 43 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions 305-2 7, 8, 9 3, 13, 15 38 Involvement of local ­communities 413-1 43 Other relevant greenhouse gas emissions 305-3 7, 8, 9 3, 13, 15 38, 128 Inspection of new suppliers for human rights violations 414-1 1, 2, 4, 5 16 44 Intensity of greenhouse gas emissions 305-4 7, 8, 9 3, 13, 15 38 Negative effects in the supply chain 414-2 1, 2, 4, 5 16 44 Reducing greenhouse gas emissions 305-5 7, 8, 9 3, 13, 15 38, 128 Product Responsibility Total weight of waste by type Health and safety impact and disposal method 306-2 8 12 38 throughout the product life cycle 416-1 1 36 Fines for non-compliance with environmental legislation 307-1 8 38 Violations of health and safety standards 416-2 1 16 36 Percentage of new suppliers inspected on the basis Legally required information of ­environmental criteria 308-1 7, 8, 9 44 about products and services 416-3 8 36 Negative effects in the supply chain 308-2 7, 8, 9 44 Social Affairs Structure of the total workforce 401-1 6 40, 129 Benefits granted to full-time employees only 401-2 8 42 Notification periods for ­operational changes 402-1 3 41 Proportion of employees on industrial safety committees 403-1 1 8 43 Work-related accidents and illnesses 403-2 1 8 43 Health and safety 403-4 1 8 43 Worker training on ­occupational health and safety 403-5 1 8 43 Annual Report 2018 // SMA Solar Technology AG 128 Other Information – Sustainability Key Figures of the SMA Group SUSTAINABILITY KEY FIGURES OF THE SMA GROUP AREA OF ACTION: PRODUCTS AND PROCESSES AREA OF ACTION: ENVIRONMENT AND ENERGY1 2018 2017 2018 2017 Sales € million 760.9 891.0 Total energy consumption 2 kWh/kW 3.42 3.69 Inverter output sold MW 8,449 8,538 Total power consumption kWh/kW 2.72 2.72 Capital expenditure € million 40.3 33.2 Share of photovoltaics in total electricity consumption % 40 33 Research and development costs (including own work capitalized) € million 87.1 83.0 Share of regional/decentralized renewable electricity % 87 70 Research and development ratio in relation to sales % 11.4 9.3 Water/effluent 3 m³/employee 11.1 10.8 EBITDA € million –69.1 97.3 Total waste 2 t/GW 234.4 229.2 EBITDA margin % –9.1 10.9 Share of recyclable waste % 87.5 85.4 Patents and utility models 1,244 1,057 Share of hazardous waste % 12.2 14.7 Prevented emissions1 Millions of CO2 emissions S1+S2 total 2 kg/kW 0.79 0.90 tons of CO2 52 45 CO2 emissions S1+S2 Prevented environmental damage2 € million 7,492 6,525 Germany 2 kg/kW 0.17 0.19 CO2 emissions S1+S2 abroad 2 kg/kW 0.62 0.71 Quality – field failure rate % 0.71 0.54 CO2 emissions of SMA vehicle fleet passenger cars 3 kg/employee 186.8 190.2 1 Global CO2 savings by SMA products compared with the fuel mix in Germany of Ø CO2 emissions of company cars 0.53 kg/kWh according to ECE 4 g/km 108 111 2 €145 per prevented ton of CO2 emissions (Federal Environment Agency – ­medium-term costs, mean value) CO2 emissions S3 CO2 emissions aircraft 3 kg/employee 464.4 558.0 CO2 emissions rail 3 kg/employee 3.25 3.23 CO2 emissions logistics truck % 4 Not given CO2 emissions logistics aircraft % 88 Not given CO2 emissions logistics ship % 8 Not given CO2 emissions logistics rail % 0 Not given 1 Niestetal/Kassel location, if not specified otherwise 2 In relation to inverter output produced 3 In relation to the number of employees at the end of the period 4 In accordance with manufacturer specifications as outlined in the ECE standard SMA Solar Technology AG // Annual Report 2018 Sustainability Key Figures of the SMA Group – Other Information 129 AREA OF ACTION: EMPLOYEES AREA OF ACTION: CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018/12/31 2017/12/31 2018 2017 SMA Group employees Sustainability evaluation of suppliers according to EcoVadis 3 % 48 Not given Employees (excl. temporary employees) 3,353 3,213 Locations assessed for risks of corruption % 6 50 of which domestic 2,212 2,077 Employees given corruption of which abroad 1,141 1,136 ­avoidance training 2,037 305 Temporary employees 290 701 Cases of corruption 0 0 Total employees (incl. temporary employees) 3,643 3,914 3 Since 2018, sustainability performance evaluation of the main suppliers is done by EcoVadis. The sustainability performance of SMA suppliers is in the green area of the Trainees 72 94 EcoVadis scale. Gender diversity of SMA employees male % 74.6 75.0 female % 25.4 25.0 SMA Group executives male % 85.7 85.7 female % 14.3 14.3 Domestic executives male % 90.5 90.8 female % 9.5 9.2 Managing Board male % 100 100 female % 0 0 General Managers/Vice Presidents male % 93.5 88.6 female % 6.5 11.4 Directors male % 90.6 89.6 female % 9.4 10.4 Executives abroad male % 78.6 77.7 female % 21.4 22.3 SMA Supervisory Board male % 75 75 female % 25 25 Occupational safety and health Domestic Lost Work Day Rate 1 Sick days/ working hours 14.41 12.95 Domestic Lost Time Incident Rate 2 Accidents/ working hours 1.41 1.51 1 Sick days due to work-related accidents x 200,000 in relation to working hours 2 Accidents > 1 lost day x 200,000 in relation to working hours Annual Report 2018 // SMA Solar Technology AG 130 Other Information REGISTERED TRADEMARKS The SMA company logo, as well as the names coneva, emerce, Energy that changes, ennexOS, SMA, SMA Magnetics, SMA Railway Technology, SMA Smart Connected, SMA Solar Academy, SMA Solar Technology, SMA SPOT, Solid-Q, Sunny, Sunny Boy, Sunny Central, Sunny Design, Sunny Highpower, Sunny Highpower Peak, Sunny Home Manager, Sunny Portal, Sunny Tripower, Sunny Tripower Core, Zeversolar are registered trademarks of SMA Solar Technology AG in many countries. DISCLAIMER The Annual Report, in particular the Forecast Report included in the Management Report, includes various forecasts and expectations as well as statements relating to the future development of the SMA Group and SMA Solar Technology AG. These statements are based on assumptions and estimates and may entail known and unknown risks and uncertainties. Actual development and results as well as the financial and asset situation may therefore differ substantially from the expectations and assumptions made. This may be due to market fluctuations, the development of world market prices for commodities, of financial markets and exchange rates, amendments to national and international legislation and provisions or fundamental changes in the economic and political environment. SMA does not intend to and does not undertake an obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to adapt them to events or developments after the publication of this Annual Report. SMA Solar Technology AG // Annual Report 2018 FINANCIAL CALENDAR 2019/05/09 Publication of Quarterly Statement: January to March 2019 Analyst Conference Call: 09:00 a. m. (CET) 2019/05/28 Annual General Meeting 2019 2019/08/08 Publication of Half-Yearly Financial Report: January to June 2019 Analyst Conference Call: 09:00 a. m.(CET) 2019/11/07 Publication of Quarterly Statement: January to September 2019 Analyst Conference Call: 09:00 a. m. (CET) PUBLICATION INFORMATION CONTACT Published by SMA Solar Technology AG SMA Solar Technology AG Sonnenallee 1 34266 Niestetal Text Germany SMA Solar Technology AG Phone: +49 561 9522-0 Fax: +49 561 9522-100 Consulting, Concept & Design info@SMA.de Silvester Group www.SMA.de/en www.silvestergroup.com Investor Relations Photos www.IR.SMA.de/contact Andreas Berthel Stefan Daub Carsten Herwig Getty Images SMA Solar Technology AG Sonnenallee 1 34266 Niestetal Germany Phone: +49 561 9522-0 Fax: +49 561 9522-100 info@SMA.de www.SMA.de/en
