Communication on Progress We are truly committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our Company. Dear Mr. Secretary-General, I am pleased to, once again, confirm that the Jerónimo Martins Group supports the ten principles of the Global Compact on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. We are truly committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our Company, and also to promote and engage in collaborative projects and initiatives which aim at achieving the Sustainable Development. In 2018, the Jerónimo Martins’ banners once again beat all sales records reinforcing its leadership positions in the countries where we operate. With over 4,000 stores spread across Portugal, Poland and Colombia, our more than 108,000 employees were the key driver to JERÓNIMO MARTINS | 2018 achieve strong business results – we have In times of uncertaintyand added more than a billion euros to total sales compared to the previous year, increasing complexity, profitable reaching 17.3 billion euros. We increased and sustainablegrowth can only the market share of our banners and be an outcome of a collective invested 658 million euros in the action and commitment. expansion of our businesses. We remained profitable while respecting employees, clients and communities’ our products, the support to our wellbeing, contributing to the surrounding communities and through development of local economies, and valuing our employees’ work. fostering a healthy ecosystem. We try to fulfil the mission of providing We conduct our businesses to be a force healthy and quality food to the millions of for positive transformation in the societies customers that visit our stores every day to which we belong. In recognition of our through our product development performance in over 300 social, processes and partners. An example of environmental and governance indicators, the outcomes of that effort is the the Group remained part of the Euronext elimination of the equivalent to 575 Vigeo-Eiris Eurozone 120 index being also tonnes of fat, 81 tonnes of saturated fat, 8 included for the first time in the Euronext tonnes of salt and 88 tonnes of sugar Vigeo-Eiris Europe 120 index, the only from our Private Brand products and from Portuguese company to do so. We our Meal Solutions in Portugal. maintained our presence in other international sustainability indices (such Regarding the environment, we strived to as FTSE4 Good, Ethibel, MSCI or Stoxx) improve the efficiency of our processes and entered for the first time in the and to reduce the impact that our supply FTSE4Good Developed Minimum chains have. In 2018, not only we reduced Variance, the Ethibel Pioneer Investment our carbon footprint by 17.2%, by Register and the Equileap Top 200, which acquiring renewable energy certificates, recognises listed companies with the but we also decided to hire 100% most proven gender balance workplace. renewable sourced electricity in Portugal and install solar panels. This, together Our way of making a difference is with innovative projects such as the reexpressed through the promotion of filling of the reusable water bottle ECO or healthy eating habits, the respect for the eco-packaging redesign partnerships biodiversity, the responsible sourcing of that saved 3,500 tonnes of materials. JERÓNIMO MARTINS | 2018 Offering high quality products at While assessing social impacts we competitive prices strongly depends on estimate that over a million people were developing medium to long-term reached in 2018. partnerships with our suppliers and service providers. We prioritize investing Because, in times of uncertainty and in local businesses, and that is one of the increasing complexity, profitable and hallmarks of our strategy for responsible sustainable growth can only be an sourcing. outcome of a collective action and commitment, we recognised our In 2018, we reconfirmed our commitment: employees’ merit with the payment of a 90% of the food products sold in each total of 110 million euros in awards and country’s stores were bought from also with over 11,000 promotions. We Portuguese, Poland and Colombian also invested in 4.5 million hours of suppliers respectively. Besides that, we training, and 19.5 million euros in the also worked hard to ensure the development of programmes directed to sustainable production of commodities our employees and their families in the that dictate the success of our products, areas of education and well-being. guaranteeing that 70% of the palm oil and 20% of the soy in our Private Brand As much as we possibly can, we will keep products were sustainably sourced and working towards a never-ending that 532 products in the three countries improvement of our own people’s have sustainability certificates. The work conditions and also aiming at mitigating developed with our suppliers also allowed the impact of our activities on the us to focus on new local varieties of ecosystems of which we depend. perishables and further improve animal welfare practices. This is our way of honouring the legacy of a business with more than 225 years old. Being an active citizen in our communities, we contribute towards overcoming the economic and social risks that populations face endeavouring to promote social inclusion. Every day we make sure that the most vulnerable are not left behind: food and money donations equivalent to around 31.5 million euros were distributed through Pedro Soares dos Santos more than 1,000 charities that support Chairman and Chief Executive Officer children, youngsters and elderly people. Jerónimo Martins Group
