Internalization of Sürdürülebilirliği Sustainability İçselleştirmek CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015-2016 CONTENTS MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN 1 OUR SOCIAL IMPACT PERFORMANCE 53 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO 3 A QUALIFIED WORK FORCE FOR HEALTH 54 BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS AT A GLANCE 4 EMPLOYEE RIGHTS 55 ABOUT THE REPORT 5 Employee Benefits 56 CORPORATE PROFILE 6 MATERIAL TOPIC: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 57 ABOUT BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS 6 OHS Guides 58 WE PRODUCE WITH OUR VALUES 6 Occupational Health and Safety in Our Production Facilities 59 Çerkezköy Production Plant 6 Work Accidents 59 Gebze Production Plant 7 Improvement Practices 61 Our Products are Serving Human Health in 53 Countries 7 OHS Trainings 61 STRONG AND REALISTIC STEPS WITH HIGHLY EXPERIENCED OHS Practices in the Supply Chain 61 MANAGEMENT 9 MATERIAL TOPIC: EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT 61 OUR WORK FORCE 11 Our Leaders 63 SUPPLY CHAIN 12 Talent Management 64 Cooperation and Supply Chain Policy 13 EQUAL OPPORTUNITY FOR SCIENCE 66 Supplier Selection and Monitoring 13 GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS FOR LABOUR PRACTICES 69 New Supplier Selection 13 MATERIAL TOPIC: QUALITY MANAGEMENT 69 ORGANIZATIONAL MEMBERSHIPS 14 Patient Safety Management 69 SUSTAINABILITY: A MANAGEMENT STYLE 15 Recalled Drugs 70 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS 16 OUR GREATES MOTIVATION: CUSTOMER SATISFACTION 71 RISK MANAGEMENT 17 CUSTOMER PRIVACY 72 MATERIAL TOPIC: INFORMATION SECURITY 17 OUR STAKEHOLDERS ASKED, WE RESPONDED 73 MATERIAL TOPIC: BUSINESS ETHICS COMES FIRST FOR BİLİM 18 SOCIAL INVESTMENTS 74 The Board of Ethics 18 Volunteerism is Essential at Bilim 74 Anti-Corruption 18 Volunteering Platforms – 2015 75 Anti-Counterfeiting 20 The Curious Books Creative Reading Project 75 OUR STAKEHOLDERS: OUR COMPANIONS ON OUR Audio Books 75 SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY 20 Vocational High School Coaches 75 DEFINED MATERIAL TOPICS and BOUNDARIES 23 The 3X Company Program 75 OUR ECONOMIC IMPACT PERFORMANCE 25 We are Running for a Good Cause – The Runatolia MATERIAL TOPIC: HEALTHY GROWTH 26 Marathon and İstanbul Marathon 75 OUR MARKET SHARE 27 The Global Money Week 76 OUR R&D STUDIES 27 The Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers Our R&D Investments 28 Independent Projects – 23rd April School Aid 76 HEALTHY GROWTH 28 The Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT PERFORMANCE 33 Independent Projects – Women Empowerment 76 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT MANAGEMENT 34 Volunteering Platform -2016 76 INPUT MATERIALS 36 I am in Control of My Career 76 ENERGY USAGE 36 The Curious Books Creative Reading Project 77 Reduction of Energy Consumption 38 Environmentalist Penguins 77 WATER USAGE 38 Engineers who are into Thinking 77 Water Usage in Our Production Facilities 38 We Practice English 78 EMISSIONS 39 Vocational High School Coaches 78 Greenhouse Gas Emissions 39 The 3X Company Program 78 Emissions of Ozone Depleting Substances 40 We Are Running For a Good Cause –The Runatolia Air Emissions 40 Marathon and İstanbul Marathon 78 MATERIAL TOPIC: WASTE MANAGEMENT 41 The Global Money Week 79 Waste Water Management 42 The Employee Volunteer Week 79 Management of Hazardous Wastes 45 EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION 79 Waste Types and Disposal Methods 46 CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) REPORTING 79 Recycled and Collected Wastes 49 STOCK PLANNING 79 COMPLIANCE AND GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS 50 SUPPORTING PHYSICIANS IMPROVEMENT 80 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS OF OUR SUPPLIERS 50 LOGISTICS 80 EFFORTS TO REDUCE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS 50 ANNEX: TABLES 81 Energy 50 GRI CONTENT INDEX 87 Water 51 Emissions 51 Waste 51 Training 51 1 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN Dear the Bilim Family and the Distinguished to the country. Stakeholders, Founded with 100% Turkish capital and with over During the reporting period in 53, and today we half a century of experience, Bilim Pharmaceuticals represent the Turkish pharmaceutical industry in operates with a sense of responsibility not only to 79 countries. This is the result of our reputation its stakeholders but also to its country, and gives as a ‘Responsible Company’, as well as the direction to its work with this awareness. quality of our products, an area in which we have never compromised. We are proud of the positive I am pleased to present the results of these efforts to consequences of the actions we take in order to your esteemed stakeholders through our 2015-2016 fulfil our responsibilities, beyond being aware of our Corporate Responsibility Report. responsibilities to our employees, our customers and to society. However, we do not find it enough. Not While we are rightfully proud of our achievements as only the pharmaceutical industry should take action a company that has achieved many firsts within the together, but also entire business community must framework of sustainability, we never forget to ask act together. We must move with firm steps towards ourselves “How can we do more?” Our systematic the Sustainable Development Goals in cooperation practices provided by institutionalism allow us to with all of our stakeholders. adopt a realistic and professional approach to the management of our economic, environmental and Respectfully, social impacts. Bülent Karaağaç Chairman of the Board of Directors We must not forget that in the current era, being open to change and development is not a matter of choice but one of necessity. With this consciousness, we are constantly undertaking activities aimed at improving our economic, environmental and social impacts, as well as ensuring continuity of development as a basis in all of the operational processes that we carry out. We are aware that this is the only way we can only provide the necessary contribution to our sector and 2 3 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Dear Stakeholders, We are proud to note more than 800 of the Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers have taken As Bilim Pharmaceuticals, we are shaping our work part in almost 100 projects in 2015 and 2016 and in order to achieve our vision of being the leading have contributed to social welfare by reaching out company in Turkey’s pharmaceutical market while to thousands of people, and this gives us great hope maintaining our position of being the biggest exporter at the same time. I think our employees’ serious among domestic drug manufacturers in terms of and professional approach to volunteering is highly net exports by maintaining healthy growth with our important in this regard. The positive effects of the values and understanding of business ethics in 2023. projects carried out under this perspective on the We have ambitious goals – and to achieve them, we welfare of society can be made permanent. take determined, steady and realistic steps. As we set about raising the welfare of society, we By integrating sustainability into our business go further than the contributions of our Community processes as we take strong steps forward, it is Volunteers – valuable as they are. We also support clear that the holistic approach has a significant role Sustainable Development Goals. We are aware of the in what we do. Beyond identifying and recognizing necessity of establishing the necessary cooperation positive and negative impacts created by our in the identified core areas as the private sector operations, we are aiming to enhance our positive and taking action quickly. In this context, we attach impacts and reduce the negative impacts of our importance to creating institutional and individual activities to zero wherever possible, and we ensure awareness regarding Sustainable Development Goals the continuity of improvement works to reach in our internal processes. Therefore, we deploy our the target. Communication with our stakeholders communication channels to create awareness. We represents the most significant contribution to our believe that when the importance of the contributions improvement efforts. The feedback we receive as which can be provided individually over and a result of the communication established with our above what is required in the laws, regulations and internal and external stakeholders through different corporate rules – is better understood as awareness methods guides us in our improvement efforts and and consciousness increases, and the great impact plays an important role in the efficiency of our work. that they create is seen in the big picture, which will enable us to reach the Goals more rapidly. The pharmaceutical industry is, of course, monitored very strictly by the relevant institutions. Many Sustainability is a long journey. We have encountered economic, environmental and social impacts that difficulties during this journey, and will continued may arise from the activities of the pharmaceutical to encounter difficulties on the way to achieving industry have been brought under state control success. However, there is no difficulty that with the passage laws and regulations. As Bilim cannot be overcome with the right cooperation and Pharmaceuticals, we do not only comply with the perseverance. As Bilim Pharmaceuticals, we would laws and regulations, but we also devote our power like to thank all of our stakeholders who have never and resources to the benefit of society with our left our side in our sustainability journey. understanding of “people first”. Respectfully, Okan Öncel CEO 4 BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS AT A GLANCE TO BE HEALTHY... WE PROTECT CARBON FOOTPRINT ENERGY SAVING TOTAL AMOUNT OF Reduction rate of By using environmentRECYCLED WASTE greenhouse gas emissions friendly technology, total 2015: 642,038 kg compared to 2012; energy savings of 300,000 2016: 470,675 kg 2015: 20,4% kWh were achieved. 2016: 19% WE WORK TOGETHER TOTAL NUMBER OF TRAINING HOURS PER KEY FEMALE EMPLOYEE EMPLOYEES PERSON RATE 2015: 1568 2015: 44,6 2015: 15% 2016: 1612 2016: 76,6 2016: 21% WE ARE GROWING NET SALES MARKET SHARE BY BOXES PRODUCTION 2015: TL 656M 2015: Ranked 2nd with 6,4% CAPACITY 2016: TL 728M market share 294 million 2016: Ranked 2nd with 6,4% boxes/year market share WE ARE VOLUNTEERS NUMBER OF VOLUNTEERS NUMBER OF NUMBER OF PEOPLE 2015: 815 PROJECTS REACHED 2016: 850 2015: 9 2015: 887 2016: 10 2016: 7134 FOR REFERENCE: s u r d u r u le b il ir l i k @ b i l im i l ac .c o m WWW.ENTREPRISESCANADA.CA 5 ABOUT THE REPORT The report includes information pertaining to the period of 1 January 2015 and 31 December 2016 about Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ corporate NT CONTE responsibility strategy and its performance in this context. The report covers the activities of the Head Office, the Gebze Production Facility and the Çerkezköy Production Facility. This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: COMPLIANCE Core option, and in accordance with the United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress principles. This is the 6th Corporate Responsibility Report to be published by Bilim Pharmaceuticals since 2009. Bilim Pharmaceuticals had published its CONTINUITY Corporate Responsibility Reports annually until 2012. The reporting period was changed as biennially by year of 2013. All Corporate Responsibility Reports, including the previous report published by Bilim Pharmaceuticals on 17 August, 2016, are on the ACCESS website in a manner that is easily accessible for all stakeholders. (http://www.bilimilac.com.tr/en/kurumsal-sorumluluk/kurumsalsorumluluk-raporlari.html) QUESTIONS All questions, comments and suggestions concerning the Bilim & Pharmaceuticals’ Corporate Responsibility Reports and its activities SUGGESTIONS within the framework of sustainability can be forwarded to surdurulebilirlik@bilimilac.com. Goal 12.6: Encourage companies, especially large and transnational companies, to adopt sustainable practices and to integrate sustainability information into their reporting cycle. 6 CORPORATE RESPECT FOR THE FUTURE GENERATIONS: We know that we have the responsibility against the world. We think PROFILE that all earthy resources mainly water and energy must be used in a rational way. We believe in the essentiality of contributing to society economically, ecologically and sociologically. ABOUT BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS MANAGEMENT THROUGH ETHICAL PRINCIPLES: We all Bilim İlaç Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. (Bilim Pharmaceuticals) know the importance of the triangle of justice, accountability was founded in 1953 with 100% Turkish capital. We and transparency. We think that acting ethically constitutes clearly set out our MISSION which is the backbone of our decision making processes, and national and global laws and rules have to be abided by. We • Bilim Pharmaceuticals develops drugs that maintain believe in the value of laying our head on the pillow with a human health and provide treatment. The company clear conscience. produces these drugs at its modern and high-tech facilities at international standards. CHANGE: We know that the only thing that does not change is change itself. We think that change does not just mean • By actualizing the publicity and marketing of its drugs to be open for innovations; however, differentiation and in domestic and foreign markets with focus on the client, progress come along change. We believe that we have to the company enables availability of medicines along with improve and develop our business constantly through the customer satisfaction at the highest level. principle of excellence. • It achieves fertile, profitable and sustainable growth PASSION FOR SUCCESS: We all know that passion is the through the experience it gained as a rooted corporation first step of a success journey. We think that being solutionwhich has adopted the idea of quality of life as a life oriented and having a positive character will take us to the philosophy, and the value it places on people and human greatest successes. We believe that each sun-rise is the life, as well as its collaborations maintained through messenger of a new success. development and its dedication to change. WE PRODUCE WITH OUR VALUES • The highest possible level is attained in employee commitment and satisfaction through innovative human With our Head Office and our two production plants in resources systems and an organizational structure open Turkey, we are at the service of the health sector in the to learning with the awareness that competent employees domestic market and the foreign markets with the generic will be a driving force in competition. drugs we produce. • It protects natural resources and the environment with its awareness of social responsibility, places importance on Quantity of Box 2015 2016 ethical values, and contributes to the social and economic Production development of society. Gebze Production 93.825.655 89.467.899 Plant in order to take firm steps forward to our VISION 2023: To be the leading company in Turkey›s pharmaceutical Çerkezköy 36.003.198 36.479.836 market by sustaining growth in a healthy manner, and Production Plant have maintained our position as the biggest exporter of Contract pharmaceuticals in Turkey, as we progress with clear 44.023.562 42.463.962 Manufacturing steps to being a net exporter by 2023. Total 173.852.415 168.411.697 Our determined vision and clear mission are accompanied by our strong VALUES. These basic five values are, Çerkezköy Production Plant HAPPINESS of HUMAN: We know that the quality of life goes by the happiness of humans. We think that efficiency Approved by the EU, the Çerkezköy Production Plant – which is one of Turkey›s most important penicillin production of our staff reflects on the happiness of our customers. plants – was built with a total indoor area of 9,250 m2 on We believe that concept of respect for human is the most an area of 22,000 m2 in the Çerkezköy Organized Industrial important ring of this chain. 7 Zone. The plant entered operation in 1998. Penicillin Oral 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Management Solid (tablet, film covered tablets, capsules and dry powder System certificates. suspension forms) and Penicillin Powder Injectable drugs are manufactured at the Bilim Çerkezköy Plant, which has a The plant has proven its compliance with the cGMP production capacity of 49,8 million boxes per year. regulations as well as with the integrated management system standards (ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001). With the ISO 9001 Quality Management System, ISO 14001 Environmental Management System and OHSAS Products and Quantities Manufactured at the Gebze 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Management Production Plant System certificates, the plant has proven its compliance with the cGMP regulations as well as with the integrated Gastrointestinal products, analgesic-anti-inflammatory management system standards (ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and products, dermatological products, antibiotics (nonOHSAS 18001). beta-lactam), vitamins and minerals, respiratory system products, anti-parasitic products, sweeteners, central nervous system products, cardiovascular products, iron Pharmaceutical Form Annual Capacity * preparations, muscle relaxants and anti-flu products are all 13 million boxes (182 million manufactured at the plant. Tablet tablet) 4.8 million boxes (48 million Pharmaceutical Form Annual Capacity * Capsule capsule) 72 million boxes Tablet Dry Powder (1.5 billion tablets) 12 million boxes Suspension 18 million boxes Capsule Injectable 20 million boxes (0.5 billion capsules) (*) The quantity of products that can be manufactured Syrup 18 million bottles in 1 shift at the plant. Sachet 5 million boxes The Products and Quantities Manufactured in the Çerkezköy Production Plant Dry Powder Suspension 7 million boxes Cream / Pomade 5 million boxes Gebze Production Plant (*) The quantity of products that can be manufactured Approved by the EU, the Bilim Gebze Production Plant is in 1 shift at the plant. the main drug manufacturing plant that is the largest, The Products and Quantities Manufactured in the Gebze most modern and most environmentally friendly in Turkey. Production Plant Turkey’s largest R&D centre in the pharmaceutical industry, which has 4,500 m2 of laboratory space takes place in the Our Products are Serving Human Health in 53 Countries Gebze Production Plant. We have been pursuing the international sales and The Bilim Gebze Production Plant, which is the largest marketing activities of our products, which are drug manufacturing plant in Turkey according to the manufactured in Turkey, since the establishment of Bilim production forms, started its production activities in 2008 Pharmaceutical Foreign Markets in 1998. Target countries and was designed and constructed in accordance with are determined in parallel with the strategic plan and the standards set out by the American FDA (Food and country selection criteria, and local representatives are Drug Administration), which is one of the world’s most chosen when entering new markets. In line with the target prestigious health care authorities. Established on a 60,000 of establishing representative offices in countries deemed m2 plot in the Gebze Organize Industrial Zone, the plant to offer potential, Bilim Pharmaceuticals Representative has an indoor area of 51,500 m2. The Bilim Gebze facility, Offices were established in Moldova in 2007, Albania which has a production capacity of 250 million boxes per in 2009 and in Bosnia Herzegovina in 2010, raising the year, was planned to cover any needs for capacity increase. recognition of Bilim Pharmaceuticals on the international Pharmaceuticals in the forms of solids (tablet, capsule, dry platform. With exports to 53 countries in 2015 and 2016, powder suspension), sachets, syrups, creams or pomades the sales network of Bilim Pharmaceutical Foreign Markets are manufactured in the plant. The Bilim Gebze Production continues to expand each year. Plant holds the ISO 9001 Quality Management System, ISO 14001 Environmental Management System and OHSAS 8 Bilim Pharmaceuticals has set its vision as ‘being net exporter in 2020’ and has carried out its business activities in foreign markets according to its sustainable growth objective. Our company, which has necessary know how and experience for international sales and marketing activities, has 473 employees who are highly qualified in abroad and head office. That is the reason why Bilim’s international market recognition is getting higher each day. Foreign Markets targets to reach our company’s vision 2020 with both Bilim branded products and contracting manufacturing products. In this context, in addition to representative offices in Moldova, Albania and Bosnia, from European Union countries to Africa, from South America to Asia, in more than 50 countries’ market Bilim has been positioning its brand. Our export activities, started in 1998, has reached a certain point that certified with second prize in 2016 by İstanbul Chemicals and Chemical Products Exporters Association in the category of Pharmaceutics Products Export. In order to realize our vision we constantly follow our opportunities and threats, and manage them with evaluation and revision meetings. In foreign markets, the risks to be managed in this process include the perception of production in Turkey, the price regulations of authorities in target markets, license regulations, delays in obtaining licenses and reimbursement lists, while the positive effect of increase in exchange rate, the decreasing trend in raw material prices, our 18 years of foreign market experience, and Turquality program, which is state-funded and the first and only branding program, such as represent opportunities in the same process. In 2015, Bilim Pharmaceuticals moved to Turquality program from Turquality/Brand support program. Thus, Bilim Pharmaceuticals has become one of 163 companies that the Ministry of Economy has been included in the scope of incentive. AFGHANISTAN 2015 2016 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Export Map ALBANIA BELGIUM AZERBAIJAN UAE* BOSNIA HERZEGOVINA GEORGIA FRANCE IRAQ CROATIA KAZAKHSTAN KOSOVO KYRGYZSTAN MACEDONIA MONGOLIA MOLDOVA UZBEKISTAN RUSSIA TURKMENISTAN YEMEN PHILIPPINES HONG KONG CAMBODIA MACAU MALAYSIA MYANMAR SINGAPORE BENIN THAILAND BURKINA FASO VIETNAM ETHIOPIA IVORY COAST GABON GHANA CAMEROON KENYA CONGO ECUADOR LIBYA EL SALVADOR NIGER GUATEMALA NIGERIA HONDURAS SENEGAL NICARAGUA SOMALIA CHILE SUDAN TANZANIA TOGO *Countries joined in 2015 UGANDA 9 STRONG AND REALISTIC STEPS WITH HIGHLY EXPERIENCED MANAGEMENT The Chairman of the Bilim Pharmaceuticals Co. does not hold executive duties in the organization. Shareholders may advise the highest governing body, but do not have the authority to issue orders. The methods and mechanisms for obtaining the expectations of the shareholders and other stakeholders are described in detail in the «Strategic Plan (SP) and the Annual Plan and Budget (APB) Approach». Members of the Board of Directors are elected by the General Assembly and convene at least once a month, and more frequently when deemed necessary, in accordance with the legislation of Joint Stock Companies. Board Members are predominantly individuals with high level of expertise and experience in the fields of marketing, finance and the pharmaceutical industry. The Board of Directors Chairman Bülent Karaağaç Member Mina Karaağaç Member Serdar Tamer Kaygan Chaired by the CEO, the Directors Committee is comprised of the heads of all departments who directly report to the CEO. The committee convenes once a week. The ratio of women in the Committee rose to 38% in 2016 from 36% in 2015. OUR BOARDS Bilim Environment Information Board of Quality Sustainability Pharmaceuticals Management Disciplinary and Directors Execution Board Board Community Board (Gebze & Board Information Volunteers Board Çerkezköy) Systems Board Quality Energy OHS Board Quality Human Business Management Management (Gebze, Improvement Ethics Board Resources Appraisal Systems Board Board (Gebze Çerkezköy, Board (Gezbe Board Board (Gebze & & Çerkezköy) Kasımpaşa) & Çerkezköy) Çerkezköy) Career and Resource Field Advisory Social and Leadership Planning and Corporate Product Awards Sports Activity Development Assessment Communications Launch Board Board Board Board Board Board Board Supply Chain and Cooperation Year-End Technology New Product Training Board Period Meeting Cooperations Management Board Board Board Board 10 11 OUR WORK FORCE Number of Disabled Employees by Gender As Bilim Pharmaceuticals, we derive our strength from Women Men Total our young and experienced workforce. The knowledge 2015 6 21 27 of our employees with high-level sector experience and the corporate culture they have acquired enables quick 2016 6 22 28 adaptation and lends confidence to our new highly energetic employees. The blend of a well-established Employment by Contract Type corporate culture, experience and energy forms the basis Women Men Total of our success, and is directly reflected to all business processes at Bilim Pharmaceuticals. 2015 Indefinite 332 1230 1562 Fixed Term 6 0 6 Goal 8.5: By 2030, achieve full Total 338 1230 1568 and productive employment and 2016 Indefinite 338 1268 1606 decent work for all women and men, including for young people and Fixed Term 6 0 6 persons with disabilities, and equal Total 344 1268 1612 pay for work of equal value. Employment by Seniority Seniority Group Women Men Total Number of Employees by Gender 2015 0-2 Years 151 467 618 Women Men Total 3-5 Years 77 241 318 2015 Head Office 81 74 155 Çerkezköy 33 125 158 6-10 Years 66 282 348 Gebze 127 307 434 11-15 Years 24 127 151 Field 97 724 821 Over 16 Years 20 113 133 Total 338 1230 1568 Total 338 1230 1568 2016 Head Office 87 77 164 2016 0-2 Years 163 492 655 Çerkezköy 36 133 169 3-5 Years 73 235 308 Gebze 124 296 420 6-10 Years 64 280 344 Field 96 763 859 Total 343 1269 1612 11-15 Years 21 134 155 Over 16 Years 23 127 150 Number of Employees by Age Total 344 1268 1612 Women Men Total 2015 Under 30 175 458 633 In 2015, a total of 482 employees including 365 men and 126 women who were recruited in 0-2 year seniority Between 30-40 130 612 742 group, were under the age of 30. In 2016, a total of 516 Between 40-50 33 146 179 employees, including 380 men and 136 women, who Over 50 14 14 were recruited in 0-2 year seniority group, were under the age of 30. According to data provided by the Turkish Total 338 1230 1568 Statistical Institute (TSI), the youth unemployment rate in 2016 Under 30 185 480 665 our country stood at 19.2% in December 2015 and 24% Between 30-40 127 594 721 in December 2016. In an economic environment marked Between 40-50 29 175 204 by growing youth unemployment, the employment rate of young people, who are taking a new step into business Over 50 3 19 22 life, stood at 31% at at the Bilim Pharmaceuticals in 2015, Total 344 1268 1612 and 32% in 2016. 12 (GRI 102-41) Project Cooperation: Project-based work relationships which generate or add value for both sides between the Unionization and collective bargaining is a constitutional organization and the areas in which it is in cooperation. right and Bilim Pharmaceuticals respects and does not restrict those rights of our employees within the framework Strategic-Critical Supply and Cooperations: Such of Employee Rights. Our company is not a member of cooperations encompass all suppliers and cooperations, any union and we do not engage in any union-related from which critical materials and services are procured activities. No Bilim Pharmaceuticals employee has entered within the scope of the Current Good Manufacturing a collective bargaining agreement. Practice (cGMP) and also those suppliers and cooperations which provide leapfrog contribution to the Core Business SUPPLY CHAIN Targets and which are considered crucial in implementing strategies. SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT As in any sector, the pharmaceutical sector also requires that product quality is not compromised in any of the processes in the supply chain. Recognizing that we carry a greater responsibility to the end user given that we are 1 working in the health sector, our supply chain management CUSTOMS is conducted with five main processes, which are defined TRANSPORT within the scope of five upper processes under the control RAW MATERIAL/PACKAGING of five different Directorates. 2 SUPPLIERS Relevant Directorates COMPANY CARRYING OUT CONTRACTED Bilim PHARMACEUTICALS Marketing PRODUCTION WAREHOUSE Foreign Markets 4 3 Resource Planning Operations PRODUCTION ANALYSIS Quality 6 5 Upper Processes Customer Management Upper Process PACKAGING FINISHED PRODUCT Supply Chain and Collaborations Management Upper QUALITY RELEASE Process 7 8 Operation Management Upper Process Management of Physical Assets and Technology Upper Bilim PHARMACEUTICALS TRANSPORT Process WAREHOUSE PHARMACEUTICAL Sustainability Management Higher Processes CUSTOMS WAREHOUSES Our suppliers’ sector-specific characteristic is labour intensive. Our non-corporate cooperation and suppliers 8 have been identified and categorized in order to plan them in a way to support our strategies and policies, and to TRANSPORT manage them to provide sustainable benefits: EXPORT COUNTRIES 9 Supplier: Suppliers are where there is a business relationship of less than 3 years in which we purchase the materials, products or services required to perform our main business. TRANSPORT PHARMACIES Cooperation: Working relationships of more than 3 years in which 6 or more orders are given in a year and which 10 generates or adds value for both sides between the organization and the areas in which it is in the cooperation. lovelylocks.org END USER 13 Cooperation and Supply Chain Policy The general criteria sought for all suppliers are given below, and the competencies sought on a subject-specific Our cooperation and Supply Chain Policy includes 6 main basis are as follows; elements, both in strengthening the business processes of the Bilim Pharmaceuticals and in consideration of the • Compliance with laws and regulations development of our suppliers; • ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 certifications •An approach which is in line with the articles with regard • We act with the consciousness that cooperation is to the Human Rights and Working Conditions stated in the dependent on working together for a long period of time UN Global Compact Principles and a sustainable increase in value. While we determine • Competitive pricing our strategic and operational cooperations, we take the • Reference company list corporate and strategic needs, the strengths and the skills • The company’s satisfactory background which complement each other as a basis. • New product / innovation ability • We create and develop a structure that supports each Our suppliers are audited periodically in two different other in terms of expertise, resources and knowledge in ways; (1) questionary forms including environmental and order to achieve mutual benefits and achieve common social impacts related questions and (2) site-audit. goals with the organizations that we cooperate. In 2015 and 2016, our suppliers that are within the audit • We establish sustainable relationships based on mutual period are shown in the table below in terms of their trust, respect and openness with the organizations that we number and percentage. cooperate with. Suppliers that are in Audit Period 2015 2016 • We create approaches for the organizations with which and that are Audited we cooperate, to ensure they participate in idea generation and innovation activities. Number of Supplier 23 17 Supplier Percentage 5,75% 4,09% • We develop processes to measure and evaluate the performance of the cooperation relationship, and at the same time, we seek to understand the short and longNew Supplier Selection term expectations of the organizations we work with and to manage their perceptions. Within the scope of the Supplier / Alternative Supplier Approval and Qualification Procedure numbered as • We provide the necessary information flow and create PR.0.KG.000007, new supplier companies are evaluated. synergies in order to create added value in the customerIn this context, suppliers are sent questionnaires, or audits supplier chain. To this end, we monitor our inventories and are carried out in order to examine the compliance of the outputs in the distribution channels online on a product facilities and quality systems of the suppliers with the basis and draw up production and supply plans in line with GMP within the scope of the Supplier and Subcontractor the six-month demand planning that is in implementation. Company Audit Procedure numbered as PR.0.KG.000029. In this framework, we also support our suppliers’ supply plans. In audits and questionnaires submitted to the companies, in addition to the questions related to the GMP, the Supplier Selection and Monitoring following questions regarding environmental criteria, social impacts, human rights and their effects on society Competency criteria are fulfilled with the help of the are usually directed to the companies, and their responses Supplier Collaboration Selection Preliminary Assessment are evaluated. Form (SCSPS). Companies need to fulfil at least 60% of the competency criteria designated in the SCSPS Form to be In accordance with the Supplier Quality Assessment selected. Work is started with the approval of the relevant Procedure numbered TT.0.KG.000007, assessments of director, and information is transferred to the Supply Chain existing suppliers are carried out annually, thus ensuring and Cooperation Board. This procedure does not apply to the continuity of suppliers’ compliance. monopolies or formal / semiformal organizations. 14 1. The company’s Quality Management System and the In addition, in accordance to the Regulation on relevant certificates (cGMP, ISO 9001, ISO14001, ISO Management of Suppliers and Cooperations numbered 180001, HACCP, etc.) YY.0.KDP.000002, in selecting collaborators and determining their competence, an evaluation of general 2. Environmental Impacts Significance Analysis Report and actions taken: According to the Environmental criteria such as Compliance with Laws and Regulations, Impact Assessment Regulation, work is undertaken to Quality Certificates, approaches in accordance with determine whether or not the supplier is covered by the articles regarding human rights and working conditions Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) regulation. The specified in the UN Global Compact and the subject-based EIA report and relevant legal permits are requested from competencies is carried out. suppliers and examined within this scope. 3. Risk assessment reports are prepared in terms of HSE Percentage of New Suppliers and actions taken 2015 2016 4. Risk assessments are performed with the aim of identifying critical operations and the actions to be taken Number of New 9 34 5. The work accident rate (weight ratio: 1 accident 300 Suppliers days), and the safety measures taken to reduce the Total Suppliers 282 360 number of work related accidents Percentage of New 6. Whether the raw materials purchased are of animal 3,19% 9,44% Suppliers origin with respect to human health and the existence of any TSE / BSE risks 7. Material safety data forms 8. Documents determining the presence of any materials containing allergens (GMO free, Gluten free, Melaminefree, Aflatoxin free etc.) ORGANIZATIONAL MEMBERSHIPS In our ongoing and newly developed projects, we asses and develop issues within the framework of cooperation with our internal stakeholders, non-governmental organizations and international sustainability platforms in all dimensions. COMPULSORY VOLUNTARY ORGANIZATION WITH MEMBERSHIP MEMBERSHIP MEMBERSHIP • The Istanbul Mineral and Metals Exporters' Associations (İMMEA) • The Gebze Organized Industrial Zone (GOIZ) Industrialists' Association • The Çerkezköy Organized Industrial Zone (ÇOIZ) • The Kocaeli Chamber of Commerce • The Gebze Chamber of Commerce • The Çerkezköy Chamber of Commerce and Industry • The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) • The Turkey People Management Association (PERYÖN) • The Turkey Ethics and Reputation Society • The Turkey Corporate Social Responsibility Association (TCSRA) • The Quality Association of Turkey (KALDER) • The Corporate Volunteers Association (PSVA) • The Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association of Turkey (IEIS) 15 SUSTAINABILITY: A MANAGEMENT STYLE For Bilim Pharmaceuticals, sustainability is about adding value to various assets by setting the necessary improvement goals through an awareness of external environmental conditions, providing systematic management in line with the mission and vision in all processes of the business model, and directing resources and strategies in this direction by being aware of risks and opportunities and regularly measuring and evaluating the company’s performance. In other words, sustainability is a style of management for the Bilim Pharmaceutical. Therefore, our sustainability performance is directly managed by the Sustainability Board, which is directly affiliated to the Chief Executive Officer. In business processes, we began implementing the EFQM (European Foundation for Quality Management) Excellence Model as a quality model in 1998 and we created a more corporate structure in this process. We measure our economic, environmental and social impacts in our working processes and we are continuously preparing improvement plans as we strive to reach better standards. Our most important goal is to establish a sustainability approach in the corporate culture and to ensure the engagement and development of all of our stakeholders, especially our employees, customers and suppliers. At Bilim Pharmaceuticals, which adopts business strategies based on sustainable development, “sustainable development” plays an important role in the strategic plan. The development of the corporate values of our company, done together with our employees, and the integration of our values in all of our employees and our processes within the scope of the BI’L Leadership Model which we implement is behind all of this work. 16 Our Strategic Sustainability Goals Integrating the sustainability approach in corporate culture Rising awareness of sustainability by increasing stakeholder dialogue Conducting improvement actions with the integrated thought system Setting an example for all sectors in sustainability SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS We are aware that the Sustainable Development Goals (or Global Goals), which are planned to be achieved by 2030, represent the targets deemed possible through the collaboration between the public sector (first sector), the private sector (second sector) and the third sector. Aware of our responsibility as a part of the private sector, we are therefore striving to contribute to the global goals in our sustainability approaches which we integrate into our business processes. According to the Sustainable Development Goals Index and Dashboards (the SDG Index and Dashboards) 2017 Report1, Turkey ranked 67th among 149 countries in terms of its performance in 17 Sustainable Development Goals, based on the arithmetic mean. This demonstrates that we need to work harder to achieve sustainable development. When we look at the goals that Bilim Pharmaceuticals can contribute to, the following goals stand out; Global Goals We Contribute To Relevant Page Goal 3: Good Health and Well-Being 27, 45 Goal 4: Quality Education 62, 65 Goal 5: Gender Equality 55, 66 Goal 6: Clean Water and Sanitation 38, 43 Goal 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth 11, 57, 69 Goal 12: Responsible Consumption and 5, 41, 46, 49 Production Goal 16: Peace and Justice Strong Institutions 18, 19 17 RISK MANAGEMENT plans. This sheds light on where priority should be placed in risk management tactics and the strategies We know that reaching our targets in time and without loss to be created. depends on identifying risks that may arise in each area and taking measures to counter these risks. The assessment of risks includes the elimination of risks arising from internal or external causes, the The required risk management practices include four minimization of their impacts and the work to be steps in accordance with the relevant regulations. carried out in order to prevent their reoccurrence. The risks which are assessed through risk assessment The active involvement of the Sustainability Board in the environments are evaluated in 10 different risk management process enables minimising risks which environments within the framework of specific plans are considered to be critical where there is deemed to be for each strategic risk within the framework of the a possibility of occurrence and which could have a high risk management plan and the impacts are minimised impact, in the phase of prioritising the risks. with the necessary measures. In an environment where current processes are undergoing MATERIAL TOPIC: INFORMATION SECURITY continuous review and improvement, it is essential that we undertake activities and preventive measures so that risks Information security, in other words protection of corporate do not arise. In this phase, where preventive and protective data, is a crucial topic both for our company and our actions are taken, the risk management is more effective stakeholders. Information Security and Business Continuity by ensuring the stakeholder engagement. is a material topic for Bilim Pharmaceuticals, both because of the security of our data and our responsibility towards our stakeholders. We transform our corporate data into knowledge through computerized or traditional systems, and we share this with those employees who are authorized on the basis of information security. We take confidentiality, integrity and accessibility as a basis when processing, transmitting and storing information. We store and back up all of the information generated within the company to ensure business continuity, the security and updating of knowledge assets, and manage the documents we archive. Any kind of data generated within the company is registered as a Company Asset Inventory and classified and listed. Our Asset Inventory is listed in the breakdown of Hardware, Software, Electronic data, Physical assets, Buildings, Employees, Processes, etc. and in the details of Department and the environment they are in, as well as in the confidential or company-specific distinction. The Information Security Management System which we established requires different checks to be applied through selection by means of the risk management method in a wide range of areas ranging from physical and environmental security, human resources security and communication security to information technologies As a result of the evaluations carried out by all security, and oversees their continuous measurement. directorates with stakeholder feedback, the risk Therefore, no assets or processes are left out of the measurements in which impacts and probabilities Information Security System at our company. are calculated form the basis of the risk management 18 We identify and evaluate risks, and take measures to eliminate The Board of Ethics them by analyzing the possible risks facing information assets. Each element which could pose a risk is assessed in terms of Our Ethics Board functions to instil our values in our confidentiality, integrity or accessibility, and is ranked as low, employees and to create a positive corporate atmosphere medium or high. The detailed studies we conduct regarding risk where feelings such as respect, honesty, and responsibility analysis measure the probability of threats and their effect on our are strongly felt in line with our ethical principles. business, and determine the actions and responsibilities to be taken for each threat. An Information Security Commitment has Problems faced by employees in their everyday business life in connection to Ethical Principles, and ethical issues been set up with our stakeholders in order to minimize risks. and complaints delivered by the employees, suppliers, and customers are discussed at the Board of Ethics. The Board With an awareness that minimizing the risks to information of Ethics reports directly to the Chairman of the Board of security is achieved primarily by raising the awareness of Directors on the decisions that it has taken based on the employees, we have prepared Information Security Awareness Business Ethics Principles and Policies, which will form training and we ensured that all the employees took part in the the basis for their work, laws, social values and corporate compulsory training programs. The training programs are aimed values. The decisions are put into practice with the approval at preventing the incidence of probable violations and instilling a of the Chairman of the Board of Directors. sense of responsibility in the employer and the employees within the scope of the ISMS (Information Security Management System). Our board, which is made up of a total five members, including four dependent (full-time) members and one As a company that exports to a number countries throughout independent (consultant) member, aims to provide an the world, our goal is to obtain the ISO / IEC 27001 Information objective and fair approach in all decision processes at Security Management System Certificate in 2017 to accelerate the highest level with the participation of an independent the audit processes conducted by the Ministries of Health in member, who is competent in the field of law. the countries we export to, or by international companies, and increased our reliability in the process. BOARD OF ETHICS MATERIAL TOPIC: BUSINESS ETHICS COMES FIRST FOR Chairman Human Resources Director BİLİM Fully Affiliated Quality Director Member At the Bilim Pharmaceuticals, the fundamental resource that demonstrates our understanding of conducting business is Fully Affiliated Medical Support Director our values. Ethical Management is the most important pillar of Member our values. Our Ethical Management approach is based on our Fully Affiliated Çerkezköy Quality Assurance Director corporate values and working principles, which are based on the Member activities we have successfully carried out for many years. Independent Labour Law Attroney Member Goal 16.6: Develop effective, accountable THE ETHICS BOARD CONTACT INFORMATION and transparent institutions at all levels. Tel: 0212 365 17 61 e-mail: etik@bilimilac.com Our Code of Business Ethics serves as a guideline that guides us Anti-Corruption beyond the laws, regulations, and procedures, which steers our decisions and activities, as well as protecting our organization and All of Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ activities are compliant our employees. Our Code of Business Ethics consists of two pillars, with laws, regulations and internationally valid legal including Business Ethics Principles and Policies, which play an rules. We carry out our relations with the institutions and important role in protecting and strengthening the relationship of organizations that regulate, implement and supervise the trust among all our internal and external stakeholders. rule of law in a manner consistent with our principles of honesty, transparency and accuracy. Our Ethical Management approach includes all directors and employees, including the Board of Directors and its Members Our Ethical Principles Management Commitment prohibits of our organization. All managers are responsible for ensuring any gift or any payment being given to any person with compliance with the Business Ethics Principles and Policies. The the intention of providing an unlawful advantage to the Chairman of the Board of Directors is responsible for establishing company by providing advantages in the purchase and the Board of Ethics in order to ensure the functioning of the sale of goods and services or with the help of official Business Ethics Procedure. authorities. 19 Our trainings prepared within the scope of our anticorruption policy are assigned to both our employees and Goal 16.5: Substantially reduce middle and high level managers. The breakdown of the corruption and bribery in all their forms trainings assigned in the scope of business ethics in 2015 and 2016 by management level is stated in the tables below. During our events, we pay special attention to the issues of bribery and corruption. By virtue of the sector that we 2015 2016 operate in, we benefit from the knowledge and services Regional Coordination of health professionals and scientists. Many of these 12 11 individuals work in public institutions, and we offer our Manager services mindful of the fact that they are public authorities. Regional Manager 81 89 It is imperative that no payments or gifts are given to public officials with the intention of influencing their decisions, or Marketing Manager 6 7 which can be perceived as such. The Bilim Pharmaceuticals prohibits all of its employees, consultants, intermediaries Director 8 7 and other representatives from any direct or indirect General Manager 1 2 involvement with commercial bribery. Senior Manager 8 8 We carry out the communication of our anti-corruption policy and procedures through trainings and code of ethics Coordinator 1 1 with all our employees and management bodies. We plan Manager 22 18 to communicate our anti-corruption policy in written form with our suppliers and business partners starting from Advertising Manager 8 7 2017. Technical General 1 Bilim Pharmaceuticals offers all of its employees training Manager on corruption and the prevention of anti-competitive behavior, and all employees are required to sign a Administrator 52 50 commitment to comply with the Code of Ethics to make Chairman 1 1 certain of this process. In addition, all workers are required to declare their acceptance of the protection of privacy Total 200 202 rights by signing the Confidentiality and Non-Competition Protocol. In the event that these principles are violated, measures are taken in the legal framework. Communication and Training on Anti-Corruption Policy and Procedures – Number of Person and Training Hours Number of Number of Total Training Total Number of 2015 Employee Participants Hours Employees Assigned Training Human Rights, Ethics, Marketing 1975 (including 282 140,5 298 Principles Trainings leavings) Percentage of Employees Who 94% (Ratio to Completed Human Rights, Ethics, 14% (Ratio to total number of employees) employee assigned Marketing Principles Trainings training) Number of Number of Total Training Total Number of 2016 Employee Participants Hours Employees Assigned Training Human Rights, Ethics, Marketing 1904 (including 898 448,5 1278 Principles Trainings leavings) Percentage of Employees Who 70% (Ratio to Completed Human Rights, Ethics, 47% (Ratio to total number of employees) employee assigned Marketing Principles Trainings training) 20 In its efforts to tackle corruption, Bilim Pharmaceuticals provides access to the Ethics Board for all stakeholders, not only our employees, through our actively used complaints mechanisms in addition to the training provided. Any members of the Bilim Pharmaceuticals who inform of any irregularities are under employment protection. Their employment cannot be terminated by any person or manager because of their complaints. Likewise, members who have been the subject of false complaints are also protected by employment protection. Accordingly, we allow our employees to communicate their complaints to the Board of Ethics without hesitation from their managers, the senior management or their co-workers. During the reporting period, no legal action was taken in relation to trustification or monopolization. No cases corruption were raised during this time frame, and no termination of employment or disciplinary measures were taken in connection with corruption. There were also no cases of termination resulting from any violations regarding corruption with our business partners. Anti-Counterfeiting The Pharmaceutical Track and Trace System is a system that aims to eliminate fraud in medicine by allowing traceability from the production of a drug until it reaches the final patient at every point of the entire supply chain. Bilim pharmaceuticals runs a fully integrated Pharmaceutical Track and Trace System with SAP (ERP) system which employs advanced technology enabling full automation between systems in all processes from production lines to the storage of products, from the sales order to the production / sales notice to the Ministry of Health in Turkey. As of September 2010, the Ministry of Health started making use of the “Pharmaceuticals Track and Trace System” that will ensure mandatory communication between the Ministry’s systems, drug manufacturers, drug distribution stores and pharmacies to prevent drug counterfeiting. Through the “Pharmaceuticals Track and Trace System”, traceability is ensured at every point of the supply chain, from the production phase of the drug, continuing until it reaches the patient. Bilim Pharmaceuticals has realized full automation in all processes between systems from production lines to the storage of products, from the sales order to the production / sales declaration to the Ministry of Health in Turkey. OUR STAKEHOLDERS: OUR COMPANIONS ON OUR SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY (GRI 102-40, GRI 102-42, GRI 102-43) Communicating with our stakeholders and identifying the steps we take by taking into account their expectations enables us to work more effectively in our sustainability journey. Communication methods and frequency vary between stakeholder group, but continuity is the most important element in stakeholder engagement being meaningful. Stakeholders Communication Channels Goal Announcement Boards (Continuous) To achieve a unity of the language and goals among our employees through The Bilim Portal (Continuous) active and various communication Electronic Communication (Continuous) channels/ tools, to provide the Employees Quality Day (When necessary, on Directorships basis) opportunity to follow the corporate agenda and guidance, to increase CEO Information Meetings (Twice a Year) their competency, to contribute to their development, to ensure their Marketing End of Period Meetings (Once a Year) participation in work processes and to promote their motivation and loyalty. 21 (GRI 102-40, GRI 102-42, GRI 102-43) Stakeholders Communication Channels Goal Open Door Meetings (Monthly) Introduction Cocktail (When necessary) Welcome on Board Meals (When necessary) Meetings with a special agenda (When necessary) Social-Sport Activities (within the communication plan) The Activities of the Bilim Family ( within the communication plan) Field Period Meetings (quarterly) HR Regional Visits (When necessary) Employee Satisfaction Survey (Bi-annually) To achieve a unity of the language and Subject specific Surveys (Once a Year) goals among our employees through Focus Group Interviews (Once a Year) active and various communication channels/ tools, to provide the Performance Interviews (Once a Year) opportunity to follow the corporate Employees Individual Suggestion System (Continuous) agenda and guidance, to increase their competency, to contribute to Boards (quarterly) their development, to ensure their Guest of the Month (within the communication plan) participation in work processes and to Department Meetings (When necessary) promote their motivation and loyalty. Bilim Portal-News from the Bilim (When necessary) Motivation Practices (When necessary) Marketing-HR Coordination Meetings (When necessary) Quality Circle and Quality Improvement Projects The Bilim Pharmaceutical Community Volunteers Platform (Continuous) Reputation Ambassadors Platform (Continuous) Orientation Program (Monthly) Exit Interview (When necessary) Medical Promotion Representative Visits (Continuous) Factory Visits (Continuous) Customer Visits (Continuous) Scientific Meetings Congresses / Panels / Conferences To understand customer’s expectations (When necessary) and requirements accurately by Customer Satisfaction Survey (Bi-annually) establishing two-way, sustainable, Customers Customer Focus Group Research (When necessary) qualified communication channels Pharmacy Consultancy Board (When necessary) with our customers, and to apply our processes in this direction. Physician Consultancy Board (When necessary) Foreign Market Partner Meetings (Continuous) Phone Calls (Continuous) Complaints (Continuous) 22 (GRI 102-40, GRI 102-42, GRI 102-43) Stakeholders Communication Channels Goal Supplier Visits (Continuous) Factory Visits (Continuous) Supplier Satisfaction Survey (Bi-annually) To conduct ethical trade with our Suppliers and Supplier Evaluation Survey (In selecting new suppliers suppliers and collaborators and to create Collaborations and when necessary) an awareness of sustainability. Business Partnership Summit (Bi-annually) Supplier Audits (Continuous) Phone Calls and Visits (Continuous) The Board of Directors Meetings (Monthly) Annual Reports (Monthly) Annual Plan Budget Meetings To enhance satisfaction levels and Shareholders (3-4 times per year according to the schedule) investment motivations. Strategic Plan Meetings (2-3 times per year according to the schedule) Project Partnerships (Continuous) To provide information about the sector, Public Membership, Participations in Meetings (Continuous) to ensure full compliance with the laws Institutions and and regulations, to offer suggestions Organizations, Benchmarking Studies (When necessary/ within the with respect to new draft laws and Sectoral benchmarking plan) regulations in order to contribute to the Associations development of the sector. Project Partnerships NonMemberships STK’ların gelişimine katkı sağlamak, Governmental uzmanlıklarından faydalanmak ve Organizations Representation karşılıklı öğrenme ortamı yaratmak. Press Meetings (When necessary) Press Releases (When necessary) Interviews (When necessary) Kurumsal itibarımızı artırmak, şeffaflık ve Media Factory Visits (When necessary) toplumu bilgilendirmek. Organizational Reputation and Perception Research (Bi-annually) Awareness Raising Activities (Continuous) Factory Visits (Students-on demand) To be sensitive and respectful to the Organizational Reputation and Perception Research needs of the society. To be proactive in Society (Bi-annually) solving social problems and to contribute Bilim Pharmaceutical Community Volunteers Platform to social and cultural development. (Continuous) 23 (GRI 102-46) strategic importance for Bilim Pharmaceuticals as a result of joint work carried out with the senior management and While preparing our 2015-2016 Corporate Responsibility the Sustainability Board. report, we sought to identify the material topics for our stakeholders. Accordingly, within the framework of Our stakeholders’ expectations from Bilim Pharmaceuticals sustainability, we asked the 6 main stakeholder groups within the sustainability framework and the topics and to provide feedback of their expectations from Bilim the most significant impacts of our business processes, Pharmaceuticals and the main issues which they want to from their perspective, were identified through the survey obtain information by means of this report. We incorporated study. In this survey study, we asked our stakeholders the feedback received from the stakeholder groups with about the topics that they consider to be material within our corporate strategy and unveiled our priorities within the sustainability framework, which will affect their the framework of sustainability. decisions as part of their business relations with Bilim Pharmaceuticals as a stakeholder. Looking at the weighted We used principles, which are stakeholder inclusiveness, average of the elements that our stakeholders consider to sustainability context, materiality and completeness, in the be material, it was found that the 10 elements included in GRI Standards Guidelines as base of this report. the following table were deemed to be material topics by our stakeholders. DEFINED MATERIAL TOPICS and BOUNDARIES (GRI 102-44, GRI 102-45, GRI 102-46, GRI 102-47) 1. Employee development Our 2015-2016 Corporate Responsibility Report covers the 2. New target markets economic, social and environmental impacts of the BİLİM 3. Growth strategy İLAÇ SANAYİİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. (Bilim Pharmaceutical), which is the only institution to be included in the consolidated 4. Environmental friendly technology financial report. Accordingly, the scope and content of this 5. Impact of employee wages on local market report was determined based on the activities of the Head Office, the Gebze Production Facilities and the Çerkezköy 6. Domestic market activities Production Facilities of BİLİM İLAÇ SANAYİİ VE TİCARET 7. Foreign market activities A.Ş. 8. Diversity and equal opportunity While determining the material topics within the sustainability framework, we have identified the most 9. Activities for raising awareness of the society prominent areas where the impact of our activities is 10. Business ethics highest, the points where significant impacts occur (within or outside the organization) and which impacts have Materiality Matrix 25 Influence on Stakeholder Assessments and Employee Development Growth Strategy 20 Business Ethics Quality Management 15 OHS Information Security & Business Continuity Waste Management Decisions 10 5 0 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 Significance for Bilim 24 (GRI 102-47) Information Security & Business Continuity: Information security, which is ranked 15th among 32 topics from We have brought together the same topics that our our stakeholders’ perspective, is ranked 5th for Bilim stakeholders have determined as material according to Pharmaceuticals. The protection of data and ensuring the weighted average and the sustainability elements that business continuity are undoubtedly important for all have strategic importance for Bilim Pharmaceuticals. When institutions. However, when it comes to health, the we looked at the impact of the seven priority sustainability importance of information security is even more important. elements which are strategically important for Bilim We present information about Information Security, which is Pharmaceuticals – influence on stakeholder assessments our material topic, to our stakeholders on page 17 under the and decisionswe observed that there is significant overlap same heading. between the topics. This is an important indicator of how we progress together with our stakeholders on the same track. Waste Management: We are highly sensitive to our environmental impact. We go further than following the Growth Strategy: The topic ranked first for Bilim measures as stipulated by laws and regulations regarding Pharmaceuticals is ranked second according to the weighted adverse environmental impacts that may arise from the average of the material topics specified by our stakeholder activities of our sector. We take all the measures that we groups. Information regarding our growth performance for can take, in addition to our legal obligations, and consider 2015 and 2016 is provided for our stakeholders on page 26 all kinds of contributions that we can offer. One of our under the heading of ‘Healthy Growth’. priorities is managing our waste, especially hazardous waste. Information regarding our waste management performance, Quality Management: Based on feedback from our which is ranked as the 22nd priority for our stakeholders, for stakeholders, quality management is ranked as the 12th 2015 and 2016 is presented for our stakeholders on page 41 priority, but is ranked as the second priority for Bilim under the heading of ‘Waste Management’. Pharmaceuticals. It is an topic with a number important impacts, such as being directly related to the growth Occupational Health and Safety: Our employees’ health strategy, playing an important role in increasing market and safety are our priorities in parallel with our understanding share and ensuring that products do not cause any problems of ‘people first’. We present information regarding our OHS for end users. Information regarding the performance of performance, which is ranked as the 17th priority for our Quality Management in 2015 and 2016 is presented for stakeholders, for 2015 and 2016 for our stakeholders on page our stakeholders on page 69 under the heading of ‘Quality 57 under the heading of ‘Occupational Health and Safety’. Management’. (GRI 102-44) Employee Development: Employee development, which was found to be the most important topic for the stakeholders Although not identified as a material topic, we sought to participating in our survey, is ranked third for Bilim include information required by stakeholders with reference Pharmaceuticals. 75% of our employees, 100% of the NGOs, to their feedback. Information that stakeholders requested 70% of pharmacists and 75% of Pharmaceutical warehouses from us and the relevant pages are included in the following are of the view that employee development is a material table. topic. Information regarding our performance in this area in 2015 and 2016 is provided for our stakeholders on page 61 Subject Heading Relevant Page under the heading of ‘Employee Development’. Social Investments /Volunteering 74-79 Business Ethics: Business ethics is one of our material Based Activities topic due to the fact that our industry is oriented towards Employee Satisfaction 79 human health, and as required by our corporate values. Our responsible behaviour in terms of business ethics goes CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) 79 far beyond compliance with legal regulations; the business Reporting ethics topic, which is directly related to many other influences Stock Planning 80 such as protecting the rights of our internal and external Supporting Physician Improvement 80 stakeholders, protecting the interests of our customers and the safe usage of our products by end users, was determined Logistics 80 as the 10th most important topic by our stakeholders. Information regarding business ethics is presented for our stakeholders on page 18 under the heading of ‘Business Ethics Comes First for Bilim’. OUR ECONOMIC IMPACT PERFORMANCE 26 With our two manufacturing facilities located Tax relief and incentives obtained from the government in Turkey, a workforce of more than 1,500 play an important role in ensuring balanced and healthy growth. In particular, it is imperative to systematically employees, exports to 53 countries and more advance research and development (R&D) works to than 400 suppliers, we are aware that our achieve success as it is well known, these works come activities have a significant economic impact with a high cost. Continuity of R&D works is one of the on our stakeholders, and on both national and key requirements for Bilim Pharmaceuticals to achieve international economic systems. By keeping its growth target and improvement of knowledge in the pharmaceutical sector. Therefore, we both contribute to the these impacts under control, by increasing development of the pharmaceutical sector while we also our positive impacts and by minimizing any take strong steps towards meeting Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ negative impacts where they have been growth target by benefiting from the incentives and relief identified, we ensure balanced, healthy and provided by the government. continuous development in the economic leg of our sustainability strategy. 2015 2016 Total Tax Relief 14.733.576,99 6.784.488,06 MATERIAL TOPIC: HEALTHY GROWTH R&D Relief 14.733.576,99 6.784.488,06 Providing growth is at the forefront of our sustainability Institutions Tax strategy at Bilim Pharmaceuticals. In this regard, we carry Declaration R&D 14.294.937,60 6.319.056,90 on our works and collaborations by embracing a strategy Relief of healthy growth with awareness of corporate citizenship, Tax Declaration 335.935,38 344.703,89 Income Tax Relief rather than pursuing an aggressive growth strategy. Tax Declaration 17.103,36 2.959,76 Our data on economic value, both generated and Stamp Duty Relief distributed, is an important indicator that we are on the Social Security right track in our balanced and healthy growth strategy. Institution (SSI) 85.600,65 117.767,51 Incentive The R&D Centre Financial assistance received from the government 2015 2016 (TL) Direct economic value generated In addition to the financial assistance and tax relief Incomes TL 660.814.314 TL 734.279.184 received from the government for our R&D centre, the SSI Economic value distributed incentives and other financial assistance received from the government are detailed in the table below. Operating Costs TL 5,187,947 TL 5,810,443 Employee Wages TL 98,650,391 TL 120,363,455 and Benefits Payments to TL 0 TL 3,100,035 providers of capital Payments to government Taxes TL 24,016,675 TL 44,726,970 Penalties TL 131,290 TL 73,764 27 Turkish 6% Employment Law No. Minimum 5% Discount R&D Disabled TEA SSI Discount Agency (TEA) 6111 Wage Total Amount Incentive Incentive Incentive Amount Cooperation Incentive Incentive Incentive 2015 4.056.046,46 138.185,27 85.600,80 59.225,47 567.674,78 0,00 0,00 0,00 4.906.733 2016 5.037.922,24 189.879,35 466.413,97 78.210,93 787.936,89 97.331,87 48.626,58 337.565,34 7.043.887 Other financial assistances received from the government (TL) OUR MARKET SHARE With the new products that we develop, not just for the pharmaceutical industry, we also provide an important Our aim is to increase our share in the box market by contribution to Turkey’s economy. Our state-of-the-art increasing demand for our products. Market share data is R&D center continues its work with high-tech, sensitive another indicator of Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ robust growth laboratory equipment, laboratory information automation steps. and an R&D pilot production facility which meets FDA standards. 2015 2016 Rank % Rank % Thanks to our constantly developing R&D work, Bilim Pharmaceuticals is proud to be a leader in the Turkish Prescription pharmaceutical market with its products developed at 2 8,1 2 8,1 Preferences its own R&D laboratories, and with products for which Box Market 2 6,4 2 6,4 the company has obtain licenses. In this respect, our Turkish Drug Market 6 3,4 6 3,5 company is the largest domestic manufacturer of generic drugs with respect to original drug sales in the national pharmaceutical market. We maintain our investments 2015 2016 in this area in order to protect this position by placing Number of importance on R&D activities. 59.281.846 59.195.436 Prescriptions Our R&D work is currently the focus of our exports to Number of 122.736.553 128.511.792 53 countries, and our exports are growing with each Boxes passing year as we obtain licenses for new products. At TL 560.132.738 676.903.452 Bilim Pharmaceuticals, the fundamental starting point in According to figures provided by the Turkish Exporters increasing our sales target is to concentrate on technologyAssembly, we ranked 427th among the Turkey’s top based R&D efforts and continuously increase the allocated 1,000 Exporters in 2015 with USD 39,379,321.03 and budget. ranked in 399th place in 2016 with USD 41,222,006.69 of exports. We are progressing towards our target of growth Goal 3.b: Support the research in exports. and development of vaccines and medicines for the communicable and OUR R&D STUDIES non-communicable diseases that primarily affect developing countries, More than 50 scientists in our R&D center are working provide access to affordable to offer the equivalents of the reference drugs, when essential medicines and vaccines, in accordance with reference drugs’ patents are expired, to the market. Established with an investment of 15 million dollars, Bilim the Doha Declaration on the TRIPS Agreement and Public Pharmaceuticals R&D Center is the largest R&D center of Health, which affirms the right of developing countries to the Turkish pharmaceutical industry with a laboratory area use to the full the provisions in the Agreement on Tradeof 3388 m2 and equipped with 212 high-tech machinery, Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights regarding devices and equipment. flexibilities to protect public health, and, in particular, provide access to medicines for all. 28 Our R&D Investments Bilim Pharmaceuticals is aware of the importance of intellectual capital, and to this end it has established a The investments we have undertaken are not limited Patent Department within its organization. Within the to buildings and equipment. We also undertake large framework of the relevant rules, we act in a manner which investments in competent human resources. Project respects industrial property rights that are protected by teams working in our R & D department are competent the law, while remaining committed to our values. External scientific researchers (such as Pharmaceutical Chemistry support is also obtained for other intellectual and industrial Specialists, Pharmaceutical Technology Specialists, Patent rights. We also oversee the intellectual and industrial Lawyers, Pharmacologists and Analytical Chemists). The R property rights of the organizations we work with as & D department employs more than 50 scientists. Within business partners. the scope of the Career Management System, which we have been implementing the “Graduate Study Program” HEALTHY GROWTH has been defined for employees who wish to apply to Our operations, which are part of our contribution to enroll on a Master’s degree course or PhD, employees in sustainable development, provide a contribution to the R&D center are supported. economic welfare and make our presence in the market 90% of the products for which we have a license in the meaningful, allowing us to have the social license that has international market were developed through our R & D a high level of importance for us. activities. In order to respond to the needs of customers and As Bilim Pharmaceuticals pursues its healthy growth, we the market, we also provide licensing files in accordance also contribute to the healthy growth of our stakeholders. with international regulations, and also offer the drug One of the most important elements of this is the portfolio to foreign markets through the high standards importance we place on the economic welfare of our R&D centre and manufacturing quality. An example of employees. As shown in the table below, the rate of our one of our products sold in Europe is a anti-diabetic drug employees’ wages to the minimum wage is above 100%. approved by the German Ministry of Health. In addition, as of the end of 2015, our products were being sold in Titles 2015 2016 53 different countries from the Far East to Latin America Men Women Men Women and Africa to the Middle East, demonstrating the exent of % % % % Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ presence in global market and the quality of its products. In order to meet the requirements Analyst 251,82 187,20 203,39 155,73 of the conditions of different countries, studies were Regional 597,15 648,14 489,77 544,16 performed in 25 projects among our existing projects, thus Manager contributing to exports. Employee 145,11 143,36 135,76 141,60 Operator 213,31 230,51 164,61 197,18 We have 14 licensed drugs in Western Europe. Our strategy plan for the coming years includes the export of drugs to Technician with a 2-years Europe and the USA from our two manufacturing facilities 169,41 157,68 143,09 138,47 Associate approved by the UK and Germany. Degree Even during periods of economic recession, Bilim Technician 212,83 183,45 163,48 152,37 Pharmaceuticals maintains its R&D investments and aims Medical to further step up its investments in the coming periods. Promotion 249,96 205,67 201,60 165,93 Officer The company aims to allocate 8% of net sales to R&D The Ratio of Average Wages to the Minimum Wage, with Breakdown studies every year, in addition to the fixed investments to by Male and Female be carried out in the coming years. 29 All employees working in the representative offices in the countries mentioned in the table below are employed from the local community. The country managers in our representative offices in the countries with the highest export potential are also members of the local community and are in the senior management category. As a result, we both increase our knowledge of local requirements and the market while also contributing to the economic welfare of our employees and the country through local employment. 2015 2016 Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of Employees Women Men Employees Women Men Moldova 29 19 10 23 17 6 Albania 12 7 5 15 9 6 Bosnia 9 5 4 7 6 1 Total 50 31 19 45 32 13 Number of Local People Working in Representative Offices In many of the countries where we export to, product prices are determined within the framework of relevant laws and regulations. In markets with free pricing mechanism, we set our pricing strategy with the aim of contributing to broadening access to products for community members who have low incomes. By applying discounts in product prices, we contribute to the formation of a healthier population, who are able to more actively participate in the economy. In countries from which we import from, we avoid pricing that exceeds the financial capacity of those on low incomes, as part of our corporate citizenship policy. 1IRAQ 6AFGHANISTAN 2ETHIOPIA 7SUDAN 3YEMEN 8LIBYA 4KOSOVO 9GEORGIA 5SOMALI 30 The foreign trade deficit, which is of critical importance Turkey General 2015 2016 for the Turkish economy, has remained significant in our Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ Imports industry. The export coverage ratio in the industry was 85,6 77 of Pharmaceutical Products just 19% in 2016, but this ratio stood at 56% for Bilim Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ Exports 43,4 42,9 Pharmaceuticals in 2016. of Pharmaceutical Products Rate of exports meeting imports 51% 56% Turkey General 2015 2016 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Foreign Trade Deficit (million USD) Turkey's Import of 4.605 4.521 Our economic impact is beyond our employment level, Pharmaceutical Products employee wages and taxes we pay. The economic Turkey's Export of 921 863 development of our suppliers feeds into the development Pharmaceutical Products Rate of exports meeting imports 20% 19% of the local economy. Therefore, wherever possible, we Turkish Pharmaceutical Industry Foreign Trade Deficit (million USD) procure all necessary materials from local suppliers. 2015 2016 Material Group Number of Share in Purchasing Number of Share in Purchasing Suppliers (volume) Suppliers (volume) Raw material (imported) 91 76,95% 97 75,60% Raw material (domestically 35 4,44% 42 5,40% procured) Packaging (imported) 16 4,19% 14 5% Packaging (domestically 38 13,25% 43 12% procured) Consumables and Technical 89 0,22% 79 0,86% Materials-(imported) Consumables and Technical 140 0,95% 137 1,14% Materials-(domestically procured) Total 409 100% 412 100% Distribution of Suppliers by Their Share in Purchasing 31 2015 2016 TURKEY 216 225 GERMANY 37 39 AMERICA 4 5 AUSTRIA 4 2 BELGIUM 7 8 BULGARIA 0 1 CZECH REPUBLIC 0 1 CHINA 10 9 FRANCE 9 6 CROATIA 1 0 INDIA 51 46 NETHERLANDS 13 8 UK 7 10 IRELAND 0 1 IN 2015, 5 BİLİM PHARMACEUTICALS VOLUNTEERS SPAIN 10 7 AND IN 2016, 7 BILIM PHARMACEUTICALS SWEDEN 1 0 VOLUNTEERS SUPPORTED THE 3X COMPANY PROJECT OF JUNIOR ACHIEVEMENT EDUCATION SWITZERLAND 19 17 FOUNDATION CONTRIBUTED TO THE YOUTH FOR ITALY 11 17 PREPARING TO BUSINESS LIFE. JAPAN 2 1 CANADA 1 0 KOREA 1 1 Another indirect economic impact occurs as the result LITHUANIA 1 1 of the voluntary service offered by our employees. Our HUNGARY 1 1 employees voluntarily offered mentorship support to MALAYSIA 0 1 the Junior Achievement Education Foundation’s 3X POLAND 2 1 Company Project, which prepares high school students for PORTUGAL 0 1 business life. Students learn managing, gaining customer SERBIA 1 0 confidence, learn the supply-demand balance and learn THAILAND 0 1 TAIWAN 0 1 how to overcome many other challenges in business life. GREECE 0 1 We believe the project, in which the volunteers undergo Distribution of Number of Suppliers by Countries two days of training, will contribute positively to the country’s economy in the long-run by ensuring that young people develop a greater consciousness as they join in business life, as well as identifying which professions they want to choose, while working more efficiently in their chosen professions. OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT PERFORMANCE 34 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT MANAGEMENT Our Environmental Impact Management includes impacts Bilim Pharmaceuticals shows maximum effort to use our regarding our inputs, such as energy and water, and our resources economically. In this context the precautionary outcomes, such as emissions, wastewater and wastes. In approach lies at the forefront of our business processes. order to protect the environment, our activities are carried In accordance with the requirement of the precautionary out by considering the environmental dimension and approach as described in Principle 15 of The Rio environmental impacts of our business processes starting Declaration on Environment and Development, ‘in order to from new product development and license application protect the environment, the precautionary approach shall throughout the processes of supply, production, shipment be widely applied by States according to their capabilities. and recovery of packaging waste of products release to Where there are threats of serious or irreversible damage, the market. lack of full scientific certainty shall not be used as a reason for postponing cost-effective measures to prevent environmental degradation.’ 35 The Environmental Management Board, the Energy We carry out the assessment of conformity with Management Board and the ISO 14001 Environmental environmental legislation, including the obtaining of legal Working Teams are actively involved in the planning and permits, approvals and license documents in line with the implementation of activities necessary to minimize the «Procedure for Monitoring Compliance with Occupational identified environmental impacts and in the process of Health & Safety, Environmental Legislation and Other reducing consumption of natural resources, in line with Requirements» and on the basis of the «Compliance our strategy of «protecting the environment and reducing Assessment Table». the consumption of natural resources», within the scope of our sustainability management upper process. The Environmental Management process is carried out with the participation of all of our employees in cooperation with other relevant processes. The Environmental Management Board and the Energy Management Board have been established under the Sustainability Board umbrella for the management, planning, evaluation and review of the implementation. Environmental Work Teams have been established to perform activities for implementation and mainstream. The Environment Management System was built on the basis of the Bilim Pharmaceuticals Environmental Policy and Environment Dimension Impact Assessment and in line with the Integrated Management System that incorporates ISO 14001 standards. We assess the environmental dimension and environmental impacts of our activities numerically with ISO 14001 working teams by taking into account the legal and local requirements, the inputs and outputs of each process, routine and nonroutine operating conditions and emergency situations, the findings of internal and external audits and feedback from stakeholders. In line with the assessments, our annual environmental targets are determined, reviewed and the Annual Environmental Management Program is established and implemented so that the environmental impacts can be minimized or controlled. We take all procedures and instructions which we have published for the activities of reducing or controlling significant environmental impacts revealed by the Environment Dimension Impact Assessment as a reference. All procedures and instructions in use have been defined in the Environmental Handbook with reference to the requirements of the ISO 14001 standard. 36 INPUT MATERIALS It is obvious that in any sector reducing the density of Due to the nature of our sector, we are unable to use materials used in production and packaging in every recycled products in our raw materials or primary and sector and increasing the efficiency of the economy will secondary packaging materials. All the material used in contribute to the protection of global resources. It is not the production processes are for single use only. As such, possible to achieve a significant reduction in the quantities the percentage of recycled materials used as inputs in of input materials as the quantities of raw materials that production is zero. should be used in the content of each product and the standards of packaging in the pharmaceutical industry are determined by laws and regulations. Compared to the production volumes for 2013-2014, there was an increase in the amount of input materials used in parallel with the increase in production in the 2015-2016 periods. 2013 2014 2015 2016 Glass 3.411.425 kg 3.535.745 kg 3.786.783 kg 3.668.275 kg Labels 83.507.686 items 80.368.829 items 86.075.016 items 83.381.295 items 5.019.190 kg 4.903.874 kg 5.252.049 kg 4.916.809 kg Raw materials & & & & 82.709 lt 85.723 lt 90.809 lt 87.965 lt Parcel 582.248 kg 554.699 kg 592.083 kg 573.554 kg Box 3.065.111 kg 2.907.771 kg 3.114.223 kg 3.016.763 kg Plastic 49.996 kg 47.631 kg 51.013 kg 49.417 kg Prospectus 176.001.927 items 167.674.219 items 176.579.065 items 171.053.016 items PVC-foil 421.027 kg 413.497 kg 442.855 kg 428.996 kg The 2013-2016 Input Materials ENERGY USAGE Our energy consumption directly affects our cost of operations. Both environmental and financial impacts encourage us to take measures in the field of energy use. For this reason, our experienced team is constantly exploring new ways of carrying out our operations in the most efficient way possible with regard to energy consumption, and we are improving on our existing methods. Heating or cooling ventilation systems account for 60% of our energy consumption, details of which are shown below, with the level of consumption affected by the weather. 2013 2014 2015 2016 KWh Mj kWh Mj kWh Mj kWh Mj Gebze 17.435.732 62.768.635 17.017.218 62.768.635 17.607.834 63.388.202 18.730.851 67.431.064 Çerkezköy 4.455.333 16.039.199 4.537.894 16.039.199 4.749.063 17.096.626 5.065.362 18.235.303 Head Office 586.262 2.110.543 614.588 2.110.543 627.500 2.258.994 641.725 2.310.204 2013-2016Total Electricity Consumption 37 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 T A T A T A T A T Electricity Consumption 0,13177 0,13713 0,12129 0,13713 0,12903 0,132206 0,12938 0,145108 0.1096 per Box (kW/box) Gebze 0,1682 0,17161 0,15751 0,178 0,18203 0,18767 0,18253 0,20936 0,18880 Çerkezköy 0,12204 0,13256 0,1273 0,13216 0,12772 0,13191 0,12764 0,13885 0,1456 Head Office 0,02822 0,02043 0,01479 0,01949 0,01521 0,014254 0,014476 0,015112 0,01365 and Regions 2013-2016 Electricity Consumption Target and actual amounts of electricity and natural gas consumption per box increase over the years. Almost every year new production equipment and new areas are included in the existing system of our production facilities. Consequently, our consumption of electricity and natural gas tend to increase. Moreover, as a result of the global warming, the number of days of Free-Cooling during the winter months, which are significant energy savings in the cooling system, is decreasing each year, which leads to an increase in the amount of electricity consumed in cooling groups. In addition, as of the year 2015, due to the necessity of producing some of our new products in low humidity controlled production rooms, the need for dehumidification steam consumption of air conditioning plants increased and caused an increase in natural gas consumption. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 T A T A T A T A T Natural Gas Consumption 0,1176 0,1159 0,1011 0,111 0,1083 0.1104 0.0973 0.1152 0.0889 per Box (kWh* /box) Gebze 0,16285 0,15256 0,14330 0,15393 0,15774 0,16436 0,15858 0,17364 0,16021 Çerkezköy 0,0754 0,078 0,0799 0,0882 0,0876 0,09935 0,09640 0,10170 0,10173 Head Office 0,0432 0,0303 0,0014 0,0058 0,0048 0,00463 0,00531 0,00404 0,004014 and Regions 2013-2016 Natural Gas Consumption 2015 2016 kWh Mj kWh Mj Gebze 15.421.344 55.516.834 15.534.983 55.925.938 Çerkezköy 3.576.917 12.876.901 3.710.175 13.356.630 Head Office and the 204.052 734.587 171.859 618.692 Regions 2013-2016 Total Natural Gas Consumption 38 Reduction of Energy Consumption Water Usage in Our Production Facilities Within the framework of our efforts for reducing energy The water required by our Gebze plant is supplied from the consumption, cooling system is ensured to operate Yuvacik Dam, which is a surface water reservoir, through efficiently over the COP 12 by keeping the cooling tower the municipal water network. This water source is not only supply and return temperature between 20-25 ° C. used by the GOIZ (Gebze Organized Industrial Zone) but is 300,000 kW of energy was saved by cooling with external also distributed to residential areas in the region. Within air in the free cooling mode with the Free Cooling operating the scope of Plan B, water was extracted from the Denizli scenario. Pond for one week in 2011. The Denizli pond is also a surface water source and is kept as a reserve by the GOIZ. With the automation of the Automated Logic Tower This pond also supplies homes and agricultural fields in condenser, it is possible to operate according to the the area, as well as the GOIZ. operating scenarios, keeping energy consumption to a minimum. All pumps were selected on the basis that they The Gebze Organized Industrial Zone is currently carrying could be operated at an adjustable speed in accordance out a preliminary project to provide garden irrigation water with the lowest energy-consuming operation scenario, to industrial establishments by installing an advance and steps were taken to ensure that they could operate treatment system at the exit point of its current central in this way. water treatment facility. When this project is implemented in 2019, we will have the chance to obtain our garden WATER USAGE irrigation water from the outflow of the Gebze Organized Water is the most important element of a healthy life. Industrial Zone’s central water treatment facility. As an organization working for health, we undertake At our Çerkezköy plant, water is provided from 17 deep awareness raising efforts and provide information on water water wells within the boundaries of the Organized consumption. In this area, our employees are encouraged Industrial Zone Directorate. In addition, use of the Yoncalı to display sensitivity regarding water usage, both at work Dam is allocated to the ÇOIZ and the construction contract and at home. tender is scheduled to be realized in due course. We do not withdraw groundwater for the water supply that Goal 6.4: By 2030, substantially we use in our production. Therefore, extraction of water increase water-use efficiency does not lead to a change of capacity of the ecosystem across all sectors and ensure to perform its functions in terms of the resources so it sustainable withdrawals and supply does not lead to economic or social consequences on the of freshwater to address water quality of life in the region. scarcity and substantially reduce the number of people suffering from Water used for the irrigation of the garden, which can water scarcity exceed 100 tonnes per day in the summer season, is supplied from well water. This was supplemented by water from the municipal water mains when the well In order to cool 6,000 litres of liquid in the manufacturing water supply was not sufficient, leading to an increase in tanks, a closed system cooling application was installed water consumption in 2016. and 7,000 m3 of water savings were achieved with the closed system cooling system, when compared to cooling by direct water. 39 2013 2014 2015 2016 T A T A T A T A Water Consumption 0,00076 0,00082 0,00072 0,00074 0,00075 0,00086899 0,00076 0,000932 per Box (m3/box) Gebze 0,000107 0,00107 0,000975 0,00102 0,00121 0,00100 0,00101 0,00109 Çerkezköy 0,00065 0,00062 0,00057 0,00055 0,00053 0,00046 0,00047 0,00050 Head Quarters and 0,00017 0,0002 0,0001 0,0001 0,00008 0,000009 0,0001 0,000054 the Regions 2013-2016 Water Consumption EMISSIONS Greenhouse Gas Emissions Greenhouse gas emissions caused by our company’s activities in 2009 and 2010 were reviewed under the consultancy of an independent institution. We calculated our greenhouse gas emissions in 2015 and 2016 based on the metrics set forth herein. The scope covers direct and indirect energy consumption across the organization, company vehicles, flight distances, personnel transport services and transport between our warehouses and distribution warehouses carried out by the 3rd party companies. Within the Scope 3, the greenhouse gas emissions released during the procurement process of input materials, which are used in our production and distribution services in the supply chain are excluded. 40 2011 tCO2e 2012 tCO2e 2013 tCO2e 2014 tCO2e 2015 tCO2e 2016 tCO2e Scope 1 13.333,18 14.839 12.391 8.916 9.030 9.168 Scope 2 11.555,07 11.896 11.884 11.725 12.152 12.921 Scope 3 3.297,32 2.240,29 4.068 1.444 1.896 1.476 Total 28.185,57 28.975 28.342 22.085 23.078 23.565 Greenhouse Gas Emissions by Year 2013 CO2e 2014 CO2e 2015 CO2e 2016 CO2e (tonnes) (tonnes) (tonnes) (tonnes) Flights for Business Purposes 3.243,45 595,16 1.033,83 622,77 Personnel Transport Vehicles (diesel) 403,54 390,17 363,99 380,19 Transfer of Products from the Factory to 420,62 458,48 497,73 472,88 Pharmaceutical Warehouses (diesel) 2013-2016 Scope 3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Emissions of Ozone Depleting Substances (ODS) The emissions of ozone depleting substances in 2015 and 2016 are given in the table below. Amount of t CO2e Amount of t CO2e Location Cooling Gas gas added tonnes gas added tonnes in 2015 (kg) 2015 in 2016 (kg) 2016 Head Quarters Air Cooled Cooling Group, 1x1,45 MWatt Freon R 22 12,00 21,72 5,00 9,05 The Gebze Production Plant 134 A Water Cooled Cooling Group, 3x3 MWatt R404 A 22,00 86,28 6,00 23,53 The Çerkezköy Production Plant Air Cooled Cooling Group, 1x1.45 MW Freon R 22 12,00 21,72 The Emissions of Ozone-Depleting Substances by Weight Air Emissions According to the regulations set out by the Environmental Ministry, measurements of air pollutants and atmospheric emissions containing volatile organic components are performed every 2 years. In this context, measurements were carried out in April 2015. Tables are provided below showing the NOx and SOx emissions from the use of natural gas, diesel and LPG used in the plants in 2015 are given separately on the basis of the Gebze Production Plant, the Çerkezköy Production Plant and the head office. Gebze Production Plant Parameter (kg/hour) Hot Water Boiler 1 Hot Water Boiler 2 Steam Boiler 1 Steam Boiler 2 SOx Not Detected Not Detected Not Detected Not Detected NOx (NO+NO2) 0.324 0.38 0.377 0.374 41 Çerkezköy Production Plant Parameter (kg/hour) Steam Boiler 1 Steam Boiler 2 SOx Not Detected Not Detected NOx (NO+NO2) 0,43 0,45 Head Office Parameter (kg/hour) Boiler SOx Not Detected NOx (NO+NO2) 0,01 Carbon Monoxide (mg/Nm3) Gebze max.10 0 max.10 0 max.10 0 max.10 0 Çerkezköy max.10 0 max.10 0 max.10 max.10 max.10 max.10 Sulfur Dioxide (mg/Nm3) Gebze max.10 0 max.10 0 max.10 0 max.10 0 Çerkezköy max.10 0 max.10 0 max.10 max.10 max.10 0 Dust (mg/m3 3% Ref.O2) Gebze <5 3,67 <5 3,36 <5 3,12 <5 5,37 Çerkezköy max.1 7,2 <5 1,82 <5 max.10 <5 max.10 Flue Gas Emissions MATERIAL TOPIC: WASTE MANAGEMENT Waste management is a highly sensitive topic for us because of the sector we operate in. We classify and constantly monitor our waste to ensure effective waste management. We carry out our waste management processes by adhering to the relevant environmental regulations. There were no recorded incidents of non-conformity resulting from the operation of our production facilities during 2015 or 2016, and consequently, no penal action was taken. No environmental accidents / chemical spills or leaks were recorded. Goal 12.4: By 2020, achieve the environmentally sound management of chemicals and all wastes throughout their life cycle, in accordance with agreed international frameworks, and significantly reduce their release to air, water and soil in order to minimize their adverse impacts on human health and the environment 42 As shown in the sample process flow chart below, we collect all of our waste on a process basis. We separate the wastes according to waste categories such as hazardous waste, industrial waste, recycling and recovery at their source. We ensure the disposal of wastes in cooperation with the companies licensed by the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization by placing priority on recycling / recovery and in a manner which avoids harm to the environment. The quantity of waste generated is recorded at source and is monitored, and monthly trends are also monitored. Tablet Production Dry Granulation Process Flow Chart Waste Water Management At our Gebze Production Plant, our industrial and domestic wastewater treatment plants were shut down in April 2011 after the GOIZ central wastewater treatment plant became active. Domestic and industrial wastewater generated from our activities is collected in the storage reservoirs of our old wastewater treatment plant and transferred to the GOIZ central wastewater treatment plant. 43 Goal 6.3: By 2030, improve water quality by reducing pollution, eliminating dumping and minimizing release of hazardous chemicals and materials, halving the proportion of untreated wastewater and substantially increasing recycling and safe reuse globally The GOIZ central wastewater treatment plant consists of chemical and biological treatment units. Our waste waters are monitored by the GOIZ twice each month through analysis made in our wastewaters to make sure the values’ compliance with the GOIZ central wastewater treatment plant acceptance criteria. The analysis results of our wastewaters carried out by the accredited environmental laboratories that GOIZ works with in the years of 2015 and 2016 are given below. DATE COD* (mg/lt) SULPHUR (mg/lt) SS** (mg/lt) PH (mg/lt) 02.01.2015 1606,4 < 0,1 64 7,57 19.01.2015 508 < 0,1 59 8,01 03.02.2015 1461,6 < 0,1 207 8,09 13.02.2015 433,2 0,15 74 7,5 06.03.2015 384,8 < 0,1 345 7,74 16.03.2015 665,2 < 0,1 86 7,02 06.04.2015 1791,2 <0,1 130 6,75 22.04.2015 1710 0,35 753 6,99 04.05.2015 535,2 <0,1 804 6,81 23.05.2015 1557,6 0,65 197 6,28 10.06.2015 4760 < 0,1 277 7,09 24.06.2015 1024 < 0,1 146 6,97 06.07.2015 866,4 < 0,1 31 6,81 23.07.2015 462,4 1,01 122 6,15 08.08.2015 1319,2 0,28 981 6,39 22.08.2015 1544,8 0,98 236 6,63 04.09.2015 1343,2 < 0,1 334 6,86 14.09.2015 1152 0,42 228 7,2 06.10.2015 3628 0,73 356 6,87 14.10.2015 1116 1,84 39 6,83 11.11.2015 1024 < 0,1 81 7,52 23.11.2015 886,4 < 0,1 96 6,46 07.12.2015 462,4 < 0,1 313 7,02 18.12.2015 938 < ,01 64 7,09 The 2015 Waste Water Analysis Results *COD-Chemical Oxygen Demand **SS-Suspended Solids 44 DATE COD* (mg/lt) SULPHUR (mg/lt) SS** (mg/lt) PH (mg/lt) 5.01.2016 876,8 0,21 201,00 6,75 7.01.2016 1960,0 3,28 62,20 7,58 27.01.2016 1544 1,32 65,27 6,99 7.02.2016 987,71 1,6 51,95 7,14 28.02.2016 538 <1 38 6,81 14.03.2016 1766,64 <1 60,2 7,86 27.03.2016 750,99 <1 36,85 6,76 10.04.2016 444,72 <1 33,2 6,99 10.05.2016 1103,1 1,36 51,05 6,87 23.05.2016 463,29 2 500 6,74 26.05.2016 1908,33 <1 48,85 6,48 8.06.2016 2614,5 <1 58,2 6,75 28.06.2016 924,29 2,49 205,1 6,87 18.07.2016 566,26 <1 38 6,75 27.07.2016 2911,6 < 3,02 56,80 6,70 7.08.2016 364 1,93 34 6,35 30.08.2016 881,46 1,63 73,48 6,50 8.09.2016 1386 1,63 43,35 6,65 28.09.2016 1537,54 1,83 48,92 6,1 6.10.2016 1292,1 1,47 89,43 6,45 26.10.2016 1463,04 1,55 340,7 7,1 3.11.2016 1532,96 1,56 81,85 6,36 27.11.2016 319,36 <1 46,9 6,85 13.12.2016 1420,44 <1 72,67 6,56 The 2016 Waste Water Analysis Results The GOIZ Central Treatment Plant effluent is discharged first to the Yumrukaya Stream, then the Dil Stream and finally to the Kocaeli Gulf, in accordance with the discharge criteria of the receiving environment. Industrial and domestic wastewater from our Çerkezköy Production Plant is sent to the central chemical and biological treatment plant of ÇOIZ after the chemical pre-treatment process. Compliance of our waste water with the acceptance criteria of ÇOIZ central waste water treatment plant is monitored by the analysis made by ÇOIZ. The discharge water of the ÇOIZ central treatment plant is emptied into the Çorlu Stream in accordance with the discharge criteria of the receiving environment. The Çorlu Stream is discharging in the Ergene River, the Meriç River, respectively and then the Saroz Gulf. The amount of wastewater discharged by our Gebze and Çerkezköy Production Facilities and our Head Office to the receiving environment is given in the following table: 45 2013 2014 2015 2016 Gebze 20576 30218 32696 27512 Çerkezköy 9301 9778 16893 19314 Head Office 4607 3265 2387 401 2013-2016 Waste Water Discharge Amount (m )3 Management of Hazardous Wastes All hazardous wastes generated as a result of our operations are monitored under “the amount of hazardous waste per box” performance indicator. Goal 3.9: By 2030, substantially reduce the number of deaths and illnesses from hazardous chemicals and air, water and soil pollution and contamination If the disposal decision is taken for the materials and products rejected by the Quality Control and Quality Assurance departments, a disposal form is issued. On the basis of the disposal form, the products and / or materials are transferred to the project stocks in the SAP system provided that they remain in the rejection warehouse. This information is communicated to the Cost Accounting department. At this stage, informative notifications are sent to the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Health. Related persons from the Tax Office and Ministry of Health check the quantities and reasons for disposal. After the letter of conformity, products and materials are destroyed by the authorized institution İzaydaş in the presence of the Notary and the Ministry of Health. 2015 2016 Total Amount of Shelf Sample and Hazardous Waste to be 0.3672 gr/box 0.8087 gr/box Disposed of (g/box) Amount of Shelf Sample Hazardous Waste (g/box) 0.1682 gr/box 0.0875 gr/box Amount of Hazardous Waste to be Disposed of (g/box) 0.1990 gr/box 0.7212 gr/box 2015 and 2016 Amounts of Shelf Sample and Hazardous Waste to be Disposed of The amount of shelf sample hazardous waste and hazardous waste to be disposed per box change according to years, since the drugs taken from the shelf sample and decided to be disposed differ according to years. In contrast with this process, if a material can be recycled, it is sent to recycling companies. Notification of such products and materials is not made to the Ministry of Health. There is no environmental pollution as a result of our activities. The amounts of hazardous wastes per box and the 2017 targets are provided in the table below. 46 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Performance Indicators T A T A T A T A T Process-driven Hazardous 1,019 0,900 0,120 0,180 0,902 1,021 1,050 0,755 1,050 Waste (g/box) Gebze 1,560 1,190 0,118 0,223 1,500 1,776 1,500 1,344 1,500 Çerkezköy 0,330 0,980 0,109 0,063 0,335 0,273 0,340 0,265 0,310 Head office and Regions 0,000 0,000 0,000 0,000 0,010 0,008 0,010 0,000 0,010 2013-2016 Amounts of Hazardous Waste per Box Waste Types and Disposal Methods We perform disposal of the products, materials and semi-finished products for which the decision has been taken to dispose of due to the reasons such as the expiration date or not fulfilling the quality specifications, within the scope of the “Rejection and Disposal Procedure”. The following table provides information on classification of wastes and disposal methods. Goal 12.4: By 2020, achieve the environmentally sound management of chemicals and all wastes throughout their life cycle, in accordance with agreed international frameworks, and significantly reduce their release to air, water and soil in order to minimize their adverse impacts on human health and the environment 47 The Name of No Waste Type / Content Disposal Method Waste Blister that contain residues of hazardous substances or are smeared with hazardous materials, paper / cardboard, plastic Contaminated packaging wastes, laboratory waste wastes (HPLC and GC column Contaminated wastes, TLC plate, capillary tubes, In accordance with the Waste Management glass waste etc.), ink roller and boxes, injector Regulation, such waste is transported by vehicles 1 needles (used in laboratories), licensed by the Ministry of Environment and contaminated wooden, glass or undergoes a recycling process at companies licensed plastic paint cans by the Ministry or is sent to the incineration plant. Tin plate, plastic raw material Contaminated barrels and IBC (intermediate bulk tin plate container) tanks containing residues package of hazardous substances or those Contaminated which have been contaminated with plastic hazardous substances package In accordance with the Waste Management Regulation, such waste is transported by vehicles Filter materials contaminated with 2 Filter waste licensed by the Ministry of Environment, and are hazardous substances, oil filters subjected to the incineration process in companies licensed by the Ministry of Environment. Powder VacuumRaw material powder wastes, tablet wastes, Tablet-Capsule wastes capsule wastes Shelf sample stability products Semi-finished product/ Product semi-finished (Finished product) product/ product (Finished product ) Raw materials to be disposed of Raw materials In accordance with the Waste Management (raw material liquid-powder wastes to be disposed Regulation, such waste is transported by vehicles 3 released during production and of licensed by the Ministry of Environment, and are separated for disposal) (Liquidsubjected to the incineration process in companies Powderlicensed by the Ministry of Environment. Finished products to be disposed Pomade etc.) of (finished products that expired, Product to recalled from the market and be disposed became disposable due to quality of (Finished defects) product) Oil cleaning Oil cleaning solvents solvent waste Coating Coating solutions solution 48 In accordance with the Waste Management Waste acid Regulation, such waste is transported by vehicles Laboratory chemical wastes (acid, Waste alcali 4 licensed by the Ministry of Environment, and are alcali) Other chemical subjected to the incineration process in companies wastes licensed by the Ministry of Environment. In accordance with the Waste Management Regulation, such waste is transported by vehicles 5 Softening resin Waste resin licensed by the Ministry of Environment, and are subjected to the incineration process in companies licensed by the Ministry of Environment. Waste print toners and printer In accordance with the Waste Management cartridges containing hazardous Waste toner Regulation, such waste is transported by vehicles 6 materials, wastes with ink (Pens, Waste licensed by the Ministry of Environment, and are ink boxes, highlighter-glass pens, cartridges subjected to the incineration process in companies board markers, etc.) licensed by the Ministry of Environment. In accordance with the Regulation on Control of Batteries and accumulators Waste batteries Waste Batteries and Accumulators, such waste is 7 transported by vehicles licensed by the Ministry of Waste Environment and is recycled by companies licensed Wireless and phone batteries accumulators by the Ministry of Environment. In accordance with the Regulation on Control of Waste Oil, such waste is transported by vehicles 8 Waste Oil Waste Oil licensed by the Ministry of Environment, where it is recovered at companies licensed by the Ministry of Environment. Such waste is recycled at companies licensed by 9 Tires of vehicles and forklift Waste Tire the Ministry of Environment in accordance with the Regulation on the Control of Expired Tires. Electric-electronic waste (IT and telecommunication wastes, monitoring In accordance with the Waste Management and control equipment and devices, ElectricRegulation, such waste is transported by vehicles 10 vending machines, lighting equipment electronic licensed by the Ministry of Environment and is and tools, large white goods, small wastes recycled by companies licensed by the Ministry of electrical home appliances, consumer Environment. appliances, etc.) Fluorescent In accordance with the Waste Management waste, Regulation, such waste is transported by vehicles Fluorescent lamps and other waste 11 waste licensed by the Ministry of Environment and is containing mercury containing recycled by companies licensed by the Ministry of mercury Environment. In accordance with the Regulation on the Control of Injectors, blood, body fluids and Medical Waste, such waste is transported by medical wastes contaminated with drugs 12 Medical waste waste transportation vehicles and disposed of at generated by the workplace doctor the incineration plant licensed by the Ministry of office Environment. Waste from the garden and In accordance with the Waste Management Domestic 13 cafeteria, and waste from Regulation, such waste is stored at sanitary landfill waste washbasins and toilets licensed by the Ministry of Environment. Glass paper cardboard metal In accordance with the Regulation on the Control Recycling 14 wood wastes clean PVC, aluminium of Packaging Wastes, such waste is recycled in the waste foil companies licensed by the Ministry of Environment. Clean blister, the backside of In accordance with the Waste Management Industrial 15 adhesive label, clean bonnet, Regulation, such waste is disposed of at incineration waste overshoes plants licensed by the Ministry of Environment. 49 Recycled and Collected Wastes In the scope of the Regulation on the Control of Packaging Wastes, we have been collaborating with ÇEVKO, an authorized institution in recycling activities, since 2005 for the collection of our packaging wastes at a specified quota. Goal 12.5: By 2030, substantially reduce waste generation through prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse THE A MOUNT OF WASTE RECOVERED 2015 Recycling Obligation: Polythene (PE) 13,927 kg, Polypropylene (PP) 7,054 kg, Paper Cardboard 1,158,337 kg P L AS TI C S 2 01 5 : 2 0 , 9 8 1 K G 2016 Recycling Obligation: Polythene (PE)/ Polyamide 2 01 6 : 4 0 , 1 6 7 KG (PA) 33,051 kg, Polypropylene (PP) 7,116, Paper Cardboard 1,174,206 kg The packaging materials recycled according to the type of packaging material of the drugs produced change according PAPER CARDBOARD to the years. 2015: 1,158,337 KG 2 0 1 6 : 1 , 1 74 , 2 06 K G 50 2013 2014 2015 2016 Recycled Packaging Waste / Plastic 119.471 kg 86.568 kg 70.860 kg 60.640 kg Recycled Packaging Waste / Paper – Cardboard 378.678 kg 359.980 kg 372.953 kg 210.610 kg Recycled Packaging Waste / Glass 26.950 kg 12.260 kg 15.570 kg 9680 kg Recycled Packaging Waste / Scrap pallet 218.727 kg 139.100 kg 182.655 kg 189.745 kg The Amount of Recycled Wastes Recycling wastes and packaging wastes that are generated from our production facilities are separated more effectively than each other year by year. Therefore, the amount of recycled packaging wastes is reflected in the data as decreased compared to the previous years. COMPLIANCE AND GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS No significant monetary fines or non-monetary sanctions were imposed against Bilim Pharmaceuticals because of noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations. Though, number of grievances about environmental impacts is 0. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS OF OUR SUPPLIERS For performance evaluation of raw material suppliers, packaging materials suppliers, contract manufacturing companies and the companies from which other services are purchased, their competencies in the fields of ISO 14001 are checked according to the supplier company’s operation field. Questions with regard to environmental impacts are set out in the supplier audit questionnaire and in the quality surveys, which are within the scope of the audit. No significant negative environmental impacts were found during the supplier audits. EFFORTS TO REDUCE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS Energy • The purchase/change of the EFF1 type energy efficient engines • Using hybrid bearings with lower energy consumption • Reduction of energy losses by lowering pressures in high-pressure air lines by using local compressed air compressors • Using energy saving air guns • Achieving electricity savings by transitioning to using filters which hold energy efficiency certification • Conducting flash steam recovery • Transition into using more efficient LED lighting • Revision of cooling system towers to consume less energy • Achieving energy saving by reducing the temperature and pressure values in all steam and heating boilers 51 Water • Recycling of RO (Reverse Osmosis) waste water • Recycling of condensation water from the air conditioning plants • Recycling of blow-down water by modifying tower chemicals • Switching from the use of municipal water to well water and recycled water for garden irrigation Emissions • Increasing boiler efficiency by increasing the period of modulation settings in the natural gas boilers. Waste • Reducing the amount of waste by tackling the problem of cracking in tablets • Reducing the amount of waste by reducing the transfer loss ratio of highly viscous materials • Reducing the amount of waste filter through studies conducted with the aim of prolonging the useful life of the filters • Reducing the amount of packaging and ink used through packaging optimization Training • Allocation of online environmental training for employees OUR SOCIAL IMPACT PERFORMANCE 54 A QUALIFIED WORK FORCE FOR HEALTH Age and Gender Distribution of Recruited Employees The diversity of the qualifications held by our employees Age Range Women Men Total is an important element that is directly reflected on the 2015 Under 30 44 159 203 quality of our business processes. Both the age and Between 30-50 23 153 176 gender distribution in our recruitment indicates that Total 67 312 379 diversification in qualification has been achieved. The age and gender distribution in job applications shows that 2016 Under 30 62 158 220 Bilim Pharmaceuticals attracts employee candidates with Between 30-50 16 99 115 different qualifications. Total 78 257 335 The 2015 Total Applications Rate Women / Men We constantly monitor the balance in the employee Number of Gender Application Rate circulation in order to ensure that the protection and Applications productivity of the Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ human and Men 23.679 56,2% intellectual capital is not affected negatively. We assess Women 18.483 43,8% the reasons for employees leaving the workplace and Total 42.162 100% strive to ensure that employee turnover does not cause Field Staff Application Rate Women / Men any discordance or potential injustice in the workplace. Number of Gender Application Rate Applications Men 6.662 74,6% Age and Gender Distribution of Employee Women 2.266 25,4% Turnover Total 8928 100% Age Range Women Men Total 2015 Under 30 52 171 223 Between 30-40 25 130 155 The 2016 Total Application Rate Women / Men Between 40-50 6 18 24 Number of Gender Application Rate Total 83 319 402 Applications Men 35.804 59,6% 2016 Under 30 35 116 151 Women 24.224 40,4% Between 30-50 27 89 116 Total 60.028 100% Between 40-50 10 16 26 Field Staff Application Rate Women / Men Total 72 221 293 Number of Gender Application Rate Applications Men 14.424 74,4% Women 4.975 25,6% Total 19.399 100% 55 EMPLOYEE RIGHTS As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, we are sensitive to forced and compulsory labour and child Protecting the rights of our employees and ensuring that labour topics. We go beyond ensuring that these practices they are aware of their rights are under the responsibility do not take place within the Bilim Pharmaceuticals in any of Bilim Pharmaceuticals. For this reason, we secure the way; we also audit our suppliers both in regard to their rights of our employees with the Employees› Rights Policy. labour practices and also in areas which include human rights elements. Goal 5.1: End all forms of discrimination against all women and girls everywhere As a company that supports and respects the The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, our Employees› Rights Policy includes elements focused on human rights as well as labour practices. We agree with the statement of “Human rights are not optional” and we do not allow any human rights violations. Our Ethical Management Manual, which serves as our guide for Human Rights, equality and fair management practices, was transformed into an online training reference in 2014 and was defined as a mandatory training area for all of our employees in 2015-2016. Employees who have completed this training sign the Ethical Management Commitment and therefore commit to carry out their work in accordance with these principles. The Ethical Management training course was completed by 984 employees in 2015 and 312 employees in 2016. A total of 492 hours of Employee Ethical Management training was provided in 2015 and 156 hours was provided in 2016. 30% of our twenty security personnel participated in the Ethical Management training in 2015 and 21% of our 19 security personnel participated in the Ethical Management training in 2016. During the 2015-2016 reporting period, no complaints were reported to the Ethics Board regarding human rights violations or employee rights through official grievance mechanisms. 56 Employee Benefits Since the year of our foundation, we have provided benefits to our employees as well as legal rights, as part of our corporate responsibility approach. Details of these benefits are given in the table below. Provided Benefits and Support Practices Beneficiaries Support Practices Start Year Legal Status BC: Blue Collar WC: White Collar Overtime Pay for All Employees Legal Right BC-WC Quarterly Bonuses for All Employees BC-WC-FIELD Fuel, Birth, Marriage, Religious Festivities and Annual Leave Allowance BC-WC-FIELD Payment for All Employees Providing Transportation for Employees BC-WC Working Overtime Meals for Employees Working Overtime BC-WC Lunch BC-WC Since the Foundation Vehicle Allocation to the Company WC-FIELD Executives and Field Staff Fringe Shuttle Vehicle for Employees who Serve Benefits in Head Quarters, Çerkezköy and Gebze BC-WC Plants Clothing Cheque FIELD Premium System Application FIELD Travel Allowance Payment for Employees WC-FIELD on Business Trips Personal Accident Insurance for All 2001 BC-WC-FIELD Employees Health Insurance 2004/2006 WC-FIELD Mobile Phone Line and Laptop 2001/2005/2010 WC-FIELD Advance Cash Support on Demand 2003 BC-WC-FIELD Emergency Patient Dispatch System 2004 BC-WC Credit Card for Field Staff 2005 WC HQs MARKETINGFIELD Breakfast for Employees Working at the Head Office, and in the Çerkezköy and 2005 BC-WC Gebze Plants Nursing Room for the Employees Working at the Head Office, and in the 2010 BC-WC Çerkezköy and Gebze plants Psychological Counselling Unit 2005 BC-WC 57 We are aware that the work-life balance is important for every employee and it affects motivation positively. In cases where an employee is required to work overtime, we ensure our employees are fully compensated for their labour. Our employees plan out their overtime and it is carried out with the approval of our managers. Employees who work overtime are paid for the additional hours they work in accordance with the rates determined by the laws, and are reflected to their payroll in the relevant month. Maternity leave is one of the rights given to our employees. It is provided to fathers as well as mothers. The fact that more than 50% of employees returned to work after their maternity or paternity leave in 2015 and 2016 stands out as a for which we attach importance to in terms of protecting and improving the place of our women employees, in particular, in the economic system. Employees Taking Returning Rate of Return Maternity Leave 2015 34 34 100% 2016 28 28 100% Return to Work Ratio After Maternity Leave Employees Taking Returning Rate of Return Maternity Leave 2015 34 34 100% 2016 28 28 100% Remaining at Work Ratio After Maternity Leave MATERIAL TOPIC: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY The Occupational Health and Safety Management System is structured on the basis of the Bilim Pharmaceuticals OHS Policy and risk analysis. Risk analysis practices are repeated every 3 years in accordance with the Risk Assessment Regulation across the corporation. In risk analysis, risks are determined by evaluating the dangers arising from our activities, the probability of their realization and their severity. By taking into account the severity of the risks, an action plan is established regarding the risks that are not acceptable. Targets for reducing these risks to acceptable levels are integrated into the annual OHS targets. Activity plans are included in the OSH management program and the management program is reviewed in the determined periods. Goal 8.8: ÇProtect labour rights and promote safe and secure working environments for all workers, including migrant workers, in particular women migrants, and those in precarious employment 58 The Occupational Health and Safety Board is composed of managers and specialist departmental representatives as specified in the OHS Board Format, in addition to the structure specified in the occupational safety legislation. The Board meets at least once a month and evaluates and reviews with the following schedule. • Risk analysis results, the OHS targets and the OHS management program • The findings of internal and external audits, corrective and preventive actions and improvement plans • Findings and suggestions brought by employee representatives and other board members • Notifications of work accidents, accident risks, near miss incidents and occupational ilnesses • OHS training activities • Preparing for natural disasters and emergencies • Evaluation and review of the progress of improvement activities resulting from the Current Situation Analysis • Evaluation and review of changes in official authority legislation (when necessary) • Evaluation of Performance Indicators related to the OHS (every month) • Evaluation and review of innovative and creative ideas and benchmarking and learning (when necessary) • Evaluation and review of Occupational Health and Safety Policy (in the last quarter of the year) All employees are regularly checked and tested under the “Workplace Health Surveillance Procedure”. At Bilim Pharmaceuticals, there are no employees who are encountered with high of risk of contracting a disease due to work activities. OHS Guides The committee of health and safety with joint representation contributes to a positive health and safety culture. By utilizing the committees, we strive to ensure that the employees play a role in promoting the improvement of occupational health and safety in the workplace. Our guides are composed of managers and specialists determined by departmental directorates. They gather once a month or more frequently when necessary with the agenda of carrying out risk analyses within the scope of IMS (Integrated Management System), reviewing the OHS Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) and its instructions in the direction of experiences obtained through application, ensuring compliance with safe working rules in the departments of which they are representative, evaluating OHS declarations, participating in internal audit activities and planning and conducting activities for areas open for improvement. The total workforce represented in the official, joint managementemployee health and safety committees that help monitor the Employee Health and Occupational Safety Programs and advise on these is as shown in the table below. 59 Total Number Employees in Ratio to Total of Employees Charge Number of Employees 2015 Head Office Occupational Safety Board 155 10 7% Gebze Plant Occupational Safety Board 434 22 5% Çerkezköy Plant Occupational Safety Board 158 13 8% Head Office OHS-E Guides 155 7 5% Gebze plant OHS-E Guides 434 17 4% Çerkezköy Plant OHS Work Team 158 10 6% 2016 Head Office Occupational Safety Board 164 10 6% Gebze Plant Occupational Safety Board 420 22 5% Çerkezköy Plant Occupational Safety Board 169 13 8% Head Office OHS-E Guides 164 7 4% Gebze Plant OHS-E Guides 420 18 4% Çerkezköy Plant OHS Work Team 196 10 5% The Number of OHS Boards and Guides Occupational Health and Safety in Our Production Facilities Our two production facilities are subjected to the OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Management System and its applications. There are workplace physicians, a rest room, psychological counseling services and nursing room facilities available for any health problems that our employees may experience. As an organization serving the health sector, we also have a sports hall and outdoor walking areas at our two production facilities in order to encourage our employees to adopt a healthy lifestyle. Work Accidents At Bilim Pharmaceuticals, practices related to occupational health and safety are evaluated with the basic performance indicator of the Accident Weight Ratio (AWR). The work accident weight ratio includes accidents which result in lost work days, showing how many hours have been lost per 100 work hours worked in a calendar year. When any occupational accident occurs, the notification, reporting and statistics of occupational accidents are maintained in accordance with the “Occupational Health & Safety and Environmental Notifications Procedure”. In the calendar year, the Accident Weight Ratio is calculated by dividing the total lost hours occurring due to work accidents by the total work hours of the workers in the reference group in the same year, and by multiplying it by 100. Accident Weight Ratio = (the total lost hours occurring due to work accidents / the total work hours) x 100 There were no accidents at Bilim Pharmaceuticals that resulted in death or permanent incapacity to work. The YearBased Accident Weight Ratio and the Year-Based Number of Accidents Occurred with Gender Breakdown data are given in detail in the following tables. 60 2015 2016 Accident Weight Ratio (%) 0,023 0,067 Gebze 0,024 0,12 Çerkezköy 0,064 0,067 The HQs and Regions 0 0 Year-Based Accident Weight Ratio Year Women Day Loss Men Day Loss Head Office 2015 0 0 0 0 2016 0 0 0 0 Field 2015 0 0 0 0 2016 0 0 0 0 Gebze 2015 3 10 8 41 2016 4 24 10 96 Çerkezköy 2015 0 0 2 28 2016 1 7 3 80 The Year-Based Number of Accidents Occurred with Gender Breakdown 2013 2014 2015 2016 Illness (%) 0,62 0,84 0,80 0,90 Men (%) 0,52 0,59 0,72 0,71 Women (%) 1.00 1,82 1,10 1,62 Year-Based Illness Ratios 2013 2014 2015 2016 Absenteeism 0,43% 0,60% 0,52% 0,66% Men 0,33% 0,43% 0,46% 0,5% Women 0,86% 1,29% 0,74% 1,16% Year-Based Absenteeism Ratios Annual Total Absenteeism Illness Total Working Hours Hours Hours Absenteeism Hours 2015 Men 3.185.879 14.743 22.964 37.707 Women 863.025 6.419 9.492 15.911 4.048.903 21.162 32.456 2016 Men 3.327.284 17.570 23.736 41.306 Women 871.852 10.108 14.085 24.193 4.199.136 27.678 37.821 Lost Workforce 61 Improvement Practices In addition to the precautions taken, the causes of the occupational accidents were investigated and the following additional measures were put into practice. • Increasing staff training • Effective use of Personal Protective Equipment • Increasing the safety of machinery equipment • Improvements in the work environment • Increasing number of warning label, signs and instructions • Supply of safe hand tools • Increasing the number of lifting conveyors • Providing improvement in packaging consumable materials OHS Trainings OHS training programs are one of our OHS performance indicators. In order to increase the effectiveness of our practices, at least 12 hours of OSH training is organized per employee each year on the basis of the regulations on occupational safety training of employees as published by the Ministry of Labour and Social Security. These training programs include important training for the safety and health of our employees, such as safe driving techniques, ergonomics, behaviour-based safety management, personal protective equipment, emergency responses, protection from explosions, risk assessment and manual carrying and lifting. OHS Practices in the Supply Chain In addition to taking the utmost care to ensure the health and safety of our employees, we also expect our suppliers to demonstrate the same sensitivity and for their employees to work under the same conditions. Approaches in accordance with the OHSAS 18001 certification and the principles for Human Rights and Labour Standards specified in the UN Global Compact are among the criteria required for supplier selection. MATERIAL TOPIC: EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT Developing and preserving our human capital, especially employees, through training that extends knowledge is one of the key elements of corporate development. With this awareness, we support employee development by providing equal opportunity in accessing educational opportunities in the workplace. The development of our employees is an element of strategic importance for Bilim Pharmaceuticals. 62 Goal 4.3: By 2030, ensure equal access for all women and men to affordable and quality technical, vocational and tertiary education, including university When defining our training and development goals, we aim to create an employee profile that will provide the organizational structure associated with our organization’s requirements – that it is to say, its values, mission, vision, strategic plan, and core business goals. We see the creation of a learning organization engaged in realizing the vision of our organization as a foundational element of strategic HR management. To this end, we offer new learning methods and different learning tools to all of our employees through our BilimK@mpus platform. At BilimK@mpus, where we have created an individual development platform tailored for each of our employees, our employees have access to the standard development programs and individual development tools they need for their career development and business goals. Each year, with the training needs analysis conducted by the department managers and training guides, we determine the professional, leadership, personal development and technical development needs of our employees in the Training Focus Group Meetings and create training plans accordingly. The training plans are categorized as in-class and e-learning in line with the needs of our employees and are implemented throughout the year. The Human Resources Training Department, the department managers, the business partners and internal trainers provide necessary followup on the implementation of the planned training programs and the development process is monitored each year. At Bilim Pharmaceuticals, data from training programs is measured under four basic categories; training of Total Quality Systems, which regulate the standards in Quality, the Environment and Occupational Health and Safety under single framework, Personal Development Trainings, where the employee decides their own training needs and takes responsibility for their development, Vocational Trainings, which support technical knowledge oriented towards professional development, and Leadership Trainings. In addition, employee safety and health training data can be monitored separately under the OHS and Environment categories. Online training programs are assigned to the newly recruited employees by the HR via BilimK@mpus system. The OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Management Training, the ISO 14001 Environmental Management System, Occupational Health Safety Basic Training and the Bilim Pharmaceuticals Ethical Management Training are e-learning trainings that are compulsory. 63 Training Hours Per Employee By Year 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 55 59 63 56 58 44,6 76,6 Annual Average Training Hours per Employee in 2015 by Gender and Employee Category Number of Average Time per Employee Employee Groups Total Hours Persons (Man Hours) All Employees 1975 88.123,78 44,62 Female Employees 422 18.082,29 42,85 Male Employees 1553 70.041,48 45,10 Blue Collar Employees 501 15.586,03 31,11 White Collar Employees 1474 72.537,75 49,21 Annual Average Training Hours per Employee in 2016 by Gender and Employee Category Number of Average Time per Employee Employee Groups Total Hour Persons (Man Hours) All Employees 1904 146.008,31 76,69 Female Employees 417 28.329,40 67,94 Male Employees 1487 117.678,91 79,14 Blue Collar Employees 434 14.217,68 32,76 White Collar Employees 1470 131.790,63 89,65 Our Leaders One of Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ most important goals is to generate opportunities that can create and sustain a competitive advantage in our fields. The basis for creating these opportunities lies in the teams we have established and the talent we have supported. All corporations need to identify high-potential employees who can generate added value in their organizations, or those who believe they will create value in the future. We have started the process of “key employee” appraisal, the first of which we implemented in 2014, in order to identify the employees who create added value in our company as well as those who we believe have the potential to create value. In 2015, 15% of women candidates and 85% of men candidates who met all the criteria were considered as potential key employees. In 2016, 21% of women candidates and 79% of men candidates were who met all the criteria were considered as potential key employees. 64 Ratio of the Employees Considered as Key Employee Planning and Organization to the Total Employees Conceptual Thinking 2015 2016 Versatility 41% 37% Leadership and Management Skills Developing Creative Thinking Employees who fulfil the criteria within the scope of Career Defining How Emotional Intelligence is Reflected to Management are included in 5 basic groups formed under Leadership Style the name of the Stars Team. Our five basic groups are Understanding and Managing Personality Blue (First Level Executive Development Program), Gaining Awareness about Values Green (Middle Level Executive Development Program), Red (Senior Level Executive Development Program), Delegation Yellow (New Vocational Acquisition Program) and Maroon Team Work (Vocational Specialization Program). The development programs, which are specific to the needs of these 5 Leadership Training Hours Per Employee by Year basic groups, whose development we invest in, are 2013 2014 2015 2016 designed and their processes are monitored. In order to 12,16 9,28 3,77 1,39 monitor the development, we carry out work for reaction assessment, information exchange, behavioural change and organizational impact and calculating the return on Talent Management our training investment. Thus, the development of leader candidates and leaders, who graduate from the Leadership Talent management programs enable organizations to plan Development Program, is guaranteed. how new employees will acquire capabilities that will help the organizations achieve strategic goals in a changing work environment. A more talented workforce with greater awareness develops the organization’s human capital and contributes to employee satisfaction, which is strongly correlated with improved performance. As soon as they start to work with us, we discuss career paths with our employees and provide them with THE BEST WAY TO PREDICT YOUR information on the expected criteria they need to achieve FUTURE IS TO CREATE IT on their individual career paths. The assignment criteria ABRAHAM LINCOLN for each position are prepared in advance. Our employees are aware of which criteria they need to fulfil for which The Leadership Training programs include training position. designed for the employees in the Blue and Green Stars Team, who are defined as possessing talent in the career In the Talent Management System every year, at the end management process, and other employees whose of the performance evaluation process, specialists and management skills are intended to be improved. Under managers are evaluated as the target group, by taking this training program, we aim to train future managers into consideration their career paths, for a higher position with high qualifications, as set out in the table below. within the scope of transparent appointment criteria. 65 We believe that the best way to find and retain highIn 2016 percentage of employees participating in our performing employees is to know them well and offer evaluation process was realized as 88.5%. Ratio of them ‘the career of their dreams’ in today’s competitive employees not included in the performance process, due business environment in terms of attracting qualified and to the date of entry is 11.2% while the ratio of employees competent employees. who are not included in the performance process, due to long-term medical report or maternity leave is 0.3%. Goal 4.4: By 2030, substantially The performance indicator of the employees who receive increase the number of youth and support for a post graduate degree been started to be adults who have relevant skills, including technical and vocational followed up, defined as the number of employees who skills, for employment, decent jobs benefited from career development through a post graduate and entrepreneurship degrees or doctorate, job enrichment or horizontal career movement since 2014. In 2000, we implemented a Career Management System, which we regard as the basis of our Talent Management System, where our employees can develop their talents, realize and develop their potential and receive consultancy for their career goals. Today, our systems work like a guide Goal 4.b: By 2020, substantially or a consultant in every step that our employees may wish expand globally the number to take in order to improve their potential and careers. of scholarships available to developing countries, in particular Our Talent Management System is based on the least developed countries, small following; island developing States and Attracting talent to the organization, African countries, for enrolment Finding the right talent, in higher education, including Discovering the talent, vocational training and information Ensuring that talented individuals are committed to the and communications technology, organization, technical, engineering and scientific Developing the talent. programmes, in developed countries and other developing In “Performance and Potential Assessment” processes, countries our employees receive feedback on their strengths and improvement suggestions to achieve their career goals, and develop their potential by using our learning platform in the areas they want to improve. In 2015 percentage of employees participating in our evaluation process was realized as 86.2%. Ratio of employees not included in the performance process, due to the date of entry is 13.1% while the ratio of employees who are not included in the performance process, due to long-term medical report or maternity leave is 0.7%. 66 In order to support the personal and professional development of employees, the Human Resources department offers employees online training programs, which are designed with a gaming logic and include animation items, with up to three choices of training programs. The selected training programs are assigned to CAREER DEVELOPMENT = BİLİM'S DEVELOPMENT employees under the heading of catalogue training during the year. Number of Employees who Benefited from Career Development in 2015 and 2016 2015 2016 As soon as they start to work with us, we Business Development 9 1 discuss career paths with our employees and provide them with information on the Horizontal Career Movement 38 30 expected criteria they need to achieve on Number of Employees Supported 8 3 their individual career paths. for Post Graduate and Doctorate Rotation 0 0 Number of Employees Supported 41 47 The assignment criteria for each position in the Stars Team are prepared in advance. Our employees are Total 96 81 aware of which criteria they need to fulfil for which position. Within the scope of the Employment Support Program, our employees have been given training on CV Writing In 2000, we implemented a Career and Interview Techniques. The resume pool was Management System, which we regard as shared with the companies in the pharmaceuticals the basis of our Talent Management System, and other related sectors and oral counseling was where our employees can develop their talents, realize and develop their potential provided in line with the needs. and receive consultancy for their career goals. EQUAL OPPORTUNITY FOR SCIENCE In Performance and Potential Assessment The complementary element for employee development to processes, our employees receive feedback have a strategic importance for the Bilim Pharmaceuticals on their strengths and improvement is equality of opportunity. The diversity of our employees suggestions to achieve their career goals, is the most important reason behind our success, and and develop their potential by using our learning platform in the areas they want to ensuring this diversity at the management level also improve. allows us to make our success permanent. Goal 5.1: End all forms of discrimination against all women and girls everywhere 67 The age and gender distribution at the management level is shown below, indicating that our employees in all age groups have the opportunity to gain managerial positions. Likewise, there is also a gender balance in management positions. However, physical difficulties arising from being actively involved in the field result in a higher proportion of male staff among those working in the field. Gender Distribution at the Management Level Years Location Gender General Manager Director Manager Supervisor Grand Total 2015 Head Office Men 1 6 19 13 39 Women 14 14 28 Total 1 6 34 26 67 Çerkezköy Men 2 3 5 Women 1 2 3 Total 3 5 8 Gebze Men 2 3 9 14 Women 1 2 9 12 Total 3 5 18 26 Field Men 11 73 84 Women 2 2 11 75 86 General Total 1 9 52 125 187 2016 Head Office Men 1 6 21 15 43 Women 10 14 24 Total 1 6 31 29 67 Çerkezköy Men 2 3 5 Women 1 2 3 Total 0 3 5 8 Gebze Men 2 2 9 13 Women 1 3 9 13 Total 0 3 5 18 26 Field Men 11 83 94 Women 2 2 0 11 85 96 General Total 1 9 50 137 197 68 Age Distribution at the Management Level Years Location Age Group General Director Manager Supervisor Grand Manager Total 2015 Head Office Under 30 0 4 4 Between 30-50 4 29 22 55 Over 50 1 2 4 1 8 Total 1 6 34 26 67 Çerkezköy Under 30 0 Between 30-50 3 4 7 Over 50 1 1 Total 0 0 3 5 8 Gebze Under 30 1 1 Between 30-50 2 5 17 24 Over 50 1 1 Total 0 3 5 18 26 In the Field Under 30 0 Between 30-50 10 75 85 Over 50 1 1 Total 0 0 11 75 86 Grand Total Under 30 0 0 1 4 5 Between 30-50 0 6 47 118 171 Over 50 1 3 5 2 11 Total 1 9 52 125 187 2016 Head Office Under 30 3 3 Between 30-50 1 4 27 24 56 Over 50 2 4 2 8 Total 1 31 29 61 Çerkezköy Under 30 0 Between 30-50 1 4 5 Over 50 2 1 3 Total 0 3 5 8 Gebze Under 30 1 1 Between 30-50 1 5 17 23 Over 50 2 2 Total 0 3 5 18 26 In the Field Under 30 0 Between 30-50 9 84 93 Over 50 2 1 3 Total 0 0 11 85 96 Grand Total Under 30 0 0 0 4 4 Between 30-50 1 5 42 129 177 Over 50 0 4 8 4 16 Total 1 9 50 137 197 69 Another complementary element of our employees’ notifications were answered, two were considered to be development strategy is equal pay. As is known, wage worth investigating, and the solution was delivered. There equality is a factor for keeping qualified employees in the are no complaints brought before the reporting period workforce. We take care of ensuring fairness also in terms regarding labour practices and there are no complaints of remuneration as in all subjects in order to ensure that resolved during the reporting period. our employees, whose development we have provided for, remain within the Bilim Pharmaceuticals. MATERIAL TOPIC: QUALITY MANAGEMENT Customer health and safety factor is directly related to Goal 8.5: By 2030, achieve full quality management in terms of the nature of our industry. and productive employment and All of our products, starting from product development until decent work for all women and product usage stage, are under the Quality Management men, including for young people System. and persons with disabilities, and equal pay for work of equal value As the first national company to receive the «Competence in EFQM Excellence Approval» awarded by the European Quality Association in 2004, the Bilim Pharmaceuticals is Ratio of Average Wage to the Minimum Wage making every effort to ensure that all of our products are (Women-Men Breakdown) at the defined international quality, provide safe use and 2015 2016 expected efficacy. Titles Men Women Men Women % % % % The quality system that is applied at our organization is at Analyst 251,82 187,20 203,39 155,73 international standards. It is based on current regulations and guidelines (the cGMP-Good Manufacturing Practices, Regional 597,15 648,14 489,77 544,16 the GLP-Good Laboratory Practices, the GCP-Good Clinical Manager Practices etc.), as well as modern integrated Quality Employee 145,11 143,36 135,76 141,60 Management System (ISO 9001) principles. The basic Operator 213,31 230,51 164,61 197,18 elements of our Quality Management System are explained Technician with the «Quality Policy» published by our company. You with a 2-years can visit our website (http://www.bilimilac.com.tr/en/ 169,41 157,68 143,09 138,47 Associate bilimilac/politikalarımiz.html) to access more detailed Degree information about our Quality Policy. Technician 212,83 183,45 163,48 152,37 Medical Patient Safety Management Promotion 249,96 205,67 201,60 165,93 Officer We constantly check, evaluate and report to the relevant authorities the safety and efficacy of all our products, for which we have a license, so that our healthcare GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS FOR LABOUR PRACTICES professionals can prescribe our products and be used by patients safely. When necessary and after obtaining official All complaints and suggestions for labour practices can be approvals, we send letters of information to Healthcare reported to the Ethics Board. All reports are meticulously Professionals, organize meetings and keep them posted examined and processed. In 2015, four complaints were through our headquarters and field staff within our reported and all were answered and resolved. In 2016, Marketing Directorate. three notices were conveyed to the Ethics Board, all of the 70 The safety of the patients who use our human medical The recall of drugs from the market is divided into three products is monitored constantly by the Patient Safety classes and three levels. First-class recall is where serious Department Officers consist of pharmacists within the and life-threatening health problems arise and there are scope of Head Quarters. All kinds of information concerning acceptable reasons for it to emerge. Second-class recall the efficacy of our products and the safety of the patients is where temporary, treatable health problems arise and who use our products are constantly investigated from the the cases where this is likely to occur. Third class recall is resources in the country and abroad. when the use of the product is deemed not to be harmful to health. We inform personnel at all levels, particularly the marketing, head office and field staff, on how to handle, direct and Level A goes down to the consumer level, and first class follow up issues that may be raised by consumers or recalls are made at this level. Level B goes down to the healthcare professionals concerning the safety of patient level of retailer (i.e. the pharmacy, hospital pharmacies, who use our products in line with the legislation through institutions), and second class recalls are made at this in-service training. level. Level C goes down to the wharehouse level, and third class recalls are made at this level. Upon receipt of the notification, the patient safety officers make the necessary initial evaluations, obtain additional At Bilim Pharmaceuticals, we completed the recall process information if necessary by contacting the person(s) of our product – the 1 series Largopen 1000mg tablet making the notification and report the situation to the from the market due to its non-conformity of the tablet authorities within latest 15 days according to the urgency appearance upon the request of the Ministry of Health in and importance of the issue. If there are additional 2015. The Largopen 1000mg tablet, recalled in 2015, is a measures that need to be taken within the company, we ‘second-class B level recall’. will notify the relevant divisions / departments and follow up. We evaluate whether there is a risk related to patient In 2016, the Ministry of Health announced that the safety through the risk analysis we carry out periodically package size needed to be changed in order to avoid risks and we share these evaluations with the relevant authority. that may arise from exceeding the recommended doses of thiocolchicoside-containing medicines. In this context the We complete the trainings regarding patient safety, which Muscoflex 8mg 20 capsule and the Leodex Plus 25 / 8mg we always hold at the forefront in the way we do business, 20 tablet were recalled from market upon the request of in the orientation period of those newly recruited at our the Ministry of Health. A total of 173 series of Muscoflex company; we repeat the trainings at regular intervals. We 8mg 20 capsules and 13 series of Leodex Plus 25/8mg take into account of these trainings as a benchmark in 20 tablets were successfully recalled from the market. measuring the performance of our marketing staff, which Our products which were recalled from the market were is constantly in contact with healthcare professionals. later brought back onto the market with the approval of the Ministry of Health following a change in the packaging Recalled Drugs size, as the products had not yet reached their expiry date. The Muscoflex 8mg 20 capsules and the Leodex Plus 25 / All recall activities shall be carried out in accordance with 8mg 20 tablets were ‘First Class B Level recalls’. the principles set out in the Recall Regulation published in the Official Gazette. The class of recall is determined In 2016, upon the request made by the Ministry of Health, by assessing the risk of harm to consumer health from 3 series of Gentagut Eye and Ear Drops was recalled the suspected product, and the nature of the problem. The from the market due to the discharge of content from recall level specifies the level of distribution chain that a the bottle as a result of the neck portion of the drippers recall will be imposed down to. being separated from the body of the bottle. 1 series of Enfexia 750mg IM Injectable Bottle product was recalled from the market due to the appearance of a yellow opaque 71 suspension when prepared with the solvent contained in the package, thus not meeting the company’s appearance specifications. The recall of Gentagut Eye and Ear Drops was a ‘second class, B level recall’, and the recall of the Enfexia 750mg IM Injectable Flakon was a ‘third class, B level recall’. During the recall phases, action was quickly taken to ensure patients did not experience any trouble getting access to the product and in order to determine the reasons of the recall. The causes of the non-compliance were identified and eliminated. The details of the products that were recalled in 2015 and 2016 are included in the Annex Tables section (page 82). Fines Paid As a Result of Recalled Drugs 2015 2016 TL 1.233,64 TL 240.144,61 OUR GREATES MOTIVATION: CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (GRI 102-43, GRI 102-44) Our customers have the final say about our products quality and services quality. Customer satisfaction is a measure of our sensitivity to the needs and preferences of Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ customers and it is the most important factor in ensuring our achievements extend into the long term from an organizational point of view. Therefore, we take their opinions regularly every two years through the Customer Satisfaction Survey. In addition to determining the level of satisfaction, with this survey we aim to determine our strengths and the areas need improvement, and to create a basis for our improvement activities. There are three separate sections in the questionnaire forms. The first part questions expectations, the second part questions perceptions and the third part takes account of other suggestions and the requirements of the customers with the help of open-ended questions apart from the survey questions. A total of 1,923 doctors, 489 pharmacists and 181 pharmaceutical warehouses answered the questionnaire conducted in 2015. The rate of customer satisfaction, which was targeted as 98% in 2015, exceeded expectations and stood at 98.96% as the overall average between groups. Domestic Market Customer Satisfaction Rate (%) Doctor Pharmacist Pharmaceutical Warehouse Overall Satisfaction Target 98,00% 98,00% 98,00% 98,00% Actual 99,80% 98,90% 98,20% 98,96% Domestic Market Customer Satisfaction Survey Overall Satisfaction Rate by Year (%) 2009 2011 2013 2015 Target 96,00% 96,50% 97,50% 98,00% Actual 96,31% 98,38% 98,44% 98,96% 72 (GRI 102-43, GRI 102-44) In foreign markets, consisting of 10 sub-headings and 39 questions, the Customer Satisfaction Survey was conducted to 33 distributors which we actively worked with in 2015, and 34 distributors, which we actively worked with in 2016. In line with the results, improvement plans were prepared for improvement areas for every customer. Results of Foreign Markets Customer Satisfaction Survey (%) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Target 75% 79% 80% 80% 80% 81% 81% Actual 79% 80% 80% 79% 81% 83% 80% IMPROVEMENT PLAN Subjects that are This is discussed at Make the The improvement open to improvement meetings held with all necessary plan is put into are identified in relevant Directors, improvement plan practice accordance with the including the Senior results from feedback Management CUSTOMER PRIVACY Some of our activities may require that patients› medical records or personal medical information be reviewed and assessed. Patient information obtained during our activities or delivered to us is kept confidential. This information cannot be used and cannot be shared with others unless required by law and regulations, or without patient approval. All of our employees, our suppliers and the companies working with Bilim Pharmaceuticals are careful to protect the confidentiality of the information entrusted to us and to ensure the safety of it. No breaches of confidentiality were encountered during the reporting period. OUR STAKEHOLDERS ASKED, WE RESPONDED 74 SOCIAL INVESTMENTS Volunteerism is Essential at Bilim In addition to supporting national and international initiatives, which contribute to social welfare, and our work for sustainable development and becoming a member of associations, Bilim Pharmaceuticals also extends support to various foundations and associations such as the Junior Achievement Turkey, AÇEV (Mother Child Education Foundation) and the Darüşşafaka Society on a project basis. We provide all our contributions that are carried out on the basis of volunteerism with the seriousness and understanding of professionalism. We are well aware that raising social welfare requires continuity, knowledge and most importantly sincerity. With this awareness, we continue to implement our contributions within the scope of the Bilim Pharmaceuticals Volunteering Platform. HELPING CULTURE VOCATIONAL HIGH BILIM SUPPORTING CHILDREN AT SCHOOL VULTURES SCHOOL COACHES CHILDREN IN THE THEATRE I instil an awareness of I help vocational high culture and history in I overcome the physical condition school students when it children so they can obstacles in education by helping comes to choosing their I stage plays that will be supporting protect their cultural the schools in need with items career paths, and give the mental development of children heritage. such as stationery, clothes and them support and by establishing a volunteer books. guidance. dramatics team with my family and colleagues. REMOVING BILIM’S OBSTACLES ACTORS FOR THE I develop environmental I would like to read books to WITH AUDIO ENVIRONMENT awareness in children through creative drama the visually impaired, and I lend my voice to them. BOOKS and reading theatre. INSTILLING I read books with children to BILIM ILAC COMMUNITY VOLUNTEERS Holidaying is also the right of the disabled! At the same time as REMOVING A LOVE OF encourage a love of reading books. giving them the chance to relax and enjoy themselves, I am also OBSTACLES contributing to my personal READING development. WITH THE AMONG ALTERNATIVE CHILDREN While university students prepare for working life, I offer If children understand I ensure that all my colleagues CAMP inspiration to them on matters of the concept of climate are aware of safe driving I research change and grow up personal development, career techniques and they receive first sustainability issues, with an awareness of aid training that allows them to planning and seeking role I raise awareness and the issue, I can models. perform early intervention in a I create new awareness contribute to making the world a different moment of accident. with new practices. place. I AM IN CONTROL SAVING OF MY CAREER ECOSCIENTISTS ENVIRONMENTALIST LIVES PENGUINS 75 Volunteering Platforms – 2015 participated in the proper vocalization training. After the training was completed, demo recordings were shared  815 active volunteers with the GETEM for approval. After obtaining the approval,  20 teams in 11 provinces throughout Turkey books were selected and vocalizations were carried out for one week. The completed vocalizations were shared with  9 project (realized in 2015) the GETEM and published on the system after necessary checks.  63 activities Vocational High School Coaches  891 people reached The number of people reached: 72 The Curious Books Creative Reading Project Goal: This is a program for volunteers working in private The number of people reached: 276 companies, in which they transfer their experiences to Goal: In our “Curious Books, Creative Reading” project, pupils starting from the 10th grade of vocational high which we implement in order to support the imagination, schools until they graduate under a certain number creativity and personal development of children in primary of designated topics in order to increase the personal schools, we encourage children to read books and help development of the pupils. Within the scope of the project, them to develop reading habits. In doing so, we animate our volunteers carried out 6 interviews with the vocational the stories in their minds through games and contribute high school pupils and provided consultancy about their to the development of their expression and presentation personal development and goals. skills. The 3X Company Program The project has been realized by going to the designated school for two hours, one day a week, by obtaining the The number of people reached: 65 necessary permits from the Provincial Directorate of National Education. In the project, the books are provided Goal: With the 3X Company Program, we work to prepare by the Bilim Pharmaceuticals and the books selected are high school students who are our future for business given to the children as a gift. life, to help them to gain vision and share experiences through company meetings held during the academic year In 2015, we reached 276 pupils in the schools our to ensure that students learn by experiencing. volunteers went to during in Silivri, Erzurum and Çerkezköy, and imparted them with the habit of reading books. We are Running for a Good Cause – The Runatolia Audio Books Marathon and Istanbul Marathon Number of people reached: It is not possible to determine The number of people reached: 204 the number of people reached within the framework of the Goal: Among Turkey›s largest marathons, held in Audio Book Project, because visually handicapped citizens Antalya and Istanbul, Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ volunteers select the books they want from the library, and then listen took part in the marathons, which attract a great deal to them before returning them to the library. international attention, to support AÇEV (Mother Child Goal: The process was initiated by contacting the GETEM Education Foundation). In the Runatolia Marathon project, (Technology and Education Laboratory for the Visually Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers collected Handicapped) in order to enable the visually handicapped donations to support literacy training courses for women to share in the enjoyment of books by voicing the books. within the scope of the «Run After This Dream» project. The recorder, headset and computer needed for the The volunteers also collected donations to provide support vocalization of the books were provided and the volunteers for the courses given to improve communication between 76 fathers and their children within the scope of «Father in business life, the importance of hard working as a key Support Project». The Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community factor of success, the concept of a positive approach and Volunteers was ranked among the “Kindest Hearted confidence, psychological resilience, opportunities for Companies” of the Step-by-Step (Adım Adım) Platform. university, living on campus and scholarship”, to encourage the leaders of tomorrow and to bring enlightenment to The Global Money Week young people, who are our future. The number of people reached: 214 The project, in which 20 girls, 8 boys and 6 teachers from Goal: In the Global Money Week, which is held with Ağrı took part in, continued with further lessons after the the support of volunteers every year around the world, Hagia Sophia Museum tour. On this day, that was full of volunteers provided training to 5th and 6th grade pupils sharing, our volunteers became role models by giving the on the topics of “definition of money in education, how students a visionary perspective. it should be used, the difference between basic needs Volunteering Platform -2016 and desires and how to save money” after obtaining the training of the trainer. The project, which reached  850 volunteer employees, universities for the first time with the difference made by  A total of 177 volunteers actively participated the Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers, was in the projects in 2016 realized in the Çapa and Cerrahpaşa Faculties of Medicine.  There was a staff of eight teams in Turkey’s The Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers 11 provinces Independent Projects – 23rd April School Aid  10 projects (realized in 2016) The number of people reached: 32  56 activities  A total of 7,134 people were reached Goal: Our volunteers who want to bring happiness to children on the April 23 National Sovereignty and I am in Control of My Career Children’s Day applied to install the flooring of the Ağrı Bayındır Primary School, which is a school in need, on the website of www.kardesokullar.com. The project, The number of people reached: 6674 which was initiated by our volunteers who provided floor Goal: In order to help undergraduates in Anatolia to covering with the support of the sponsor company, has start their careers one step ahead, the “I am in Control been taken over by the District Directorate of National of My Career” Personal Development Congress, which Education that completed the restoration of the school was organized by the Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community during the summer. Volunteers and designed on the basis of volunteering, was The Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers held in Erzincan University in 2016. Independent Projects – Women Empowerment Having been maintained by the Bilim Pharmaceuticals The number of people reached: 28 Community Volunteers Platform for seven years, being Turkey’s largest personal development congress with Goal: The Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers 79 trainings and 142 sessions, the “I am in Control of met students from the Ağrı Türk Telekom Social Sciences My Career” project was brought to young people at the High School within activities under the heading of “Women Erzincan University between 19th and 22nd April. Empowerment “, a “UN Women” initiative. Within the scope of the project, which we carried out in Trabzon, our The “GFK Independent Research Company” volunteered volunteers taught students about “the concept of social to conduct the effectiveness analysis for the “I am in gender, female / male roles in society, the place of women Control of My Career” project, which is comprised of all 77 volunteer professional trainers and aims for the students The project has been realized by going to the designated to acquire basic skills that they will need for successful school for 2 hours on one day a week by obtaining the performance in their working life through full-day training. necessary permits from the Provincial Directorate of The congress was found to contribute significantly to the National Education in cooperation with the Corporate increased preference of young people in those regions to Volunteers Association. In the project, the books are work in the private sector, with a difference of 45% that provided by the Bilim Pharmaceuticals and the selected was increased to 69%, in terms of their perspective of in books are given to the children as a gift. the private sector and the aspects of preferences for work. In 2016, we reached 88 pupils at the Tuzla Atatürk Primary Other striking results revealed in the survey are as follows; School, where our volunteers working at the Gebze plant went, and we imparted on them the habit of reading books.  The performance of congress was given an average mark of 9 out of 10. Environmentalist Penguins  97% of the students think that the congress contributed to their careers. The number of people reached: 88  55% of the students who participated in the preGoal: The Environmentalist Penguins Project was designed test stated that they would like to work in the for 3rd and 4th grade primary school pupils in order to public sector, while 45% said that they would enhance awareness about global warming and the like to work in the private sector. After attending importance of protecting the environment among children. the congress, 69% stated that they would like to work in the private sector and only 13% in the The project has been realized by going to the designated public sector. school 1 day a week and 2 hours by obtaining the necessary permits from the Provincial Directorate of  98% of the students stated that they recommended National Education in cooperation with the Corporate the congress to their friends. Volunteers Association. In the project, our volunteers have A special internship opportunity, which has so far been organized activities with the pupils and have contributed taken up by 60 students, will continue to be offered to to the increase in the awareness of the pupils through students at Erzincan University in 2017. The project, which experiential learning. aims to support university students especially those in Anatolia in their career plannings and create role models, Engineers who are into Thinking indirectly contributes to solving the problem of youth unemployment. The number of people reached: 88 The Curious Books Creative Reading Project Goal: Engineers who are into the Thinking Project, which was designed for the 3rd and 4th grade pupils, aims to ensure that pupils make a conscious choice of their The number of people reached: 88 professions by learning their own personalities through Goal: In our “Curious Books, Creative Reading” project, the activities carried out by setting out from engineering which we implement in order to support the imagination, skills and curiosity, and by emphasising the importance creativity and personal development of children in primary of discovering their personal skills, talents and areas schools, we encourage children to read books and help of interest and by obtaining information about various them having reading habits. In doing so, we animate the professions through investigation. stories in their minds through games and contribute to the The project has been realized by going to the designated development of their expression and presentation skills. school for 2 hours, on one day every week by obtaining 78 the necessary permits from the Provincial Directorate The 3X Company Program of National Education in cooperation with the Corporate Volunteers Association. In the project, our volunteers The number of people reached: 8 conduct organized activities with the pupils and have Goal: With the 3X Company Program, we work to prepare contributed to increasing the awareness of the pupils high school students who are our future for business life, through experiential learning. in order to help them to gain vision and share experience through organizing company meetings during the academic We Practice English year to ensure that students learn by experiencing. In 2016, our volunteers were able to reach eight students The number of people reached: 88 by supporting a school and a company because of their Goal: We practice English” is a project designed to workload. contribute to children’s language learning. We aim to help pupils use the English language that they have just started We Are Running For a Good Cause –The Runatolia learning correctly and effectively, and aim to improve their Marathon and Istanbul Marathon speaking. Various educational activities were carried out within the framework of the program designed for 4th, 5th, The number of people reached: 10 6th and 7th grade primary school pupils. Goal: Among Turkey’s largest marathons, held in The project has been realized by going to the designated Antalya and Istanbul, Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ volunteers school for 2 hours, one day a week by obtaining the took part in the marathons, which attract a great deal necessary permits from the Provincial Directorate of international attention, to support AÇEV (Mother Child National Education in cooperation with the Corporate Education Foundation). Within the scope of the “Tell me Volunteers Association. In the project, our volunteers Another Tale, Daddy” project, donations were collected organized activities with the pupils and contributed to the for the education of fathers in the context of increasing pupils’ correct and effective use of the English language the children’s happiness in a happy family environment, through experiential learning. especially with respect to improving communication with their children and their families, and correctly managing the communication. By running for the Darüşşafaka Society Vocational High School Coaches in the Istanbul Marathon, a donation was collected with the The number of people reached: 48 aim of ensuring that children who had lost their mother or father could be student at the Darüşşafaka Society school Goal: This is a program for volunteers working in private and that more children would be given scholarship income. companies, in which they transfer their experience to pupils starting from the 10th grade of vocational high schools With the donations collected by 20 volunteer runners from until they graduate under a certain number of designated Bilim Pharmaceuticals who ran in the Runatolia Marathon topics in order to increase the personal development of held in Antalya and 54 volunteer runners from Bilim the pupils. Within the scope of the project, our volunteers Pharmaceuticals who ran in the Istanbul Marathon, the carried out 6 interviews with the vocational high school annual costs of providing such courses for 10 fathers were pupils and provided consultancy about their personal paid. For those running for the sponsoring the scholarship development and goals. Within the scope of the program, of students at Darüşşafaka Society school, all donations pupils visit the Head Office at Bilim Pharmaceuticals every collected were calculated as the total amount which also year and are given a technical tour of the Gebze plant. includes donations from other companies, and it was therefore not possible to determine how many students were reached directly through the donations from our volunteer runners. 79 The Global Money Week such as birthday celebrations, motivational dinners, in-house competitions, tournaments, picnics and gift The number of people reached: 30 distributions on special occasions. Goal: In the Global Money Week, which is held with (2) Rewards are based on a system managed by the the support of volunteers every year around the world, Award Board and are divided into three categories, volunteers provided training to 5th and 6th grade pupils on the topics of “definition of money in education, how > Acknowledgments: This includes suggestions, it should be used, the difference between basic needs practices and projects, in parallel with the goals and and desires and how to save money” after obtaining strategies of the organization, but do not directly instruction from the trainer. contribute. > Success: This includes successful work performed The Employee Volunteer Week within the job description and the added value The number of people reached: 12 provided. Goal: The Employee Volunteer Week takes place in > Excellence: It includes measurable financial the first week of May every year, when all companies contribution provided to the organization or positive carry out various collaborations with non-governmental impacts provided to the image of the organization. organizations and celebrate the concept of volunteering In addition to rewarding under a specific system, we together. In the Employee Volunteer Week, project acknowledge and congratulate our employees with our partnerships are realized between NGOs and private seniority awards for our employees who have completed companies through the Corporate Volunteers Association. 5, 10, 15, 20, 25 or 30 years of service, awards for In this context, the Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community achievements obtained on a team basis in competitions Volunteers visited the Sait Faik Museum in Burgazada held among the marketing teams, and for our employees (Burgaz Island) together with pupils from the Darüşşafaka who ranked highly in events held in the company such as Society primary school. They read the Sait Faik novels and in tournaments or competitions. let pupils enjoy the beautiful spring weather by touring the CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) REPORTING island. We take the challenge against climate change seriously EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION and we are working to continuously improve business processes as part of the efforts to tackle climate We measure the satisfaction of our employees by applying change. We aim to present the CDP Reporting, which is the Employee Satisfaction Survey every 2 years. In line also an agenda item for our sustainability board, to our with the results obtained, we strive to provide the best stakeholders after removing the constraints on our time working environment for our employees. and human resources in the medium term in the coming Our practices for employee satisfaction are divided into period. two lines in general terms; (1) Motivation Practices and (2) Rewards. STOCK PLANNING (1) Within the scope of Motivation practices, we Bilim Pharmaceuticals carries out stock planning in four strive to ensure that our employees are able to types of materials; finished products, semi-finished enjoy rest, have fun and enjoy quality time and most products, raw materials and packaging materials. importantly, feel the value that Bilim Pharmaceuticals Finished Product Stocks Planning: The six-month gives its employees by taking our employees from the product-based production plans are prepared in a intensive work environment through social activities manner which meets the 6-month domestic market 80 sales forecasts delivered by the Marketing and Sales LOGISTICS Departments, the export orders delivered by the Export Department and production demands submitted by the We have an extensive supply chain network as required by contracted companies at the end of every month. We our field of activity. We have separate selection criteria for determine monthly production quantities for the domestic logistics services at all stages and tendering processes. market, export and contracted products by taking reports We purchase services from different suppliers for almost of finished products and semi-finished products stocks all processes, especially in our import processes. For our from the SAP system by evaluating capacity sufficiency in export processes, we purchase services from different line with the stock policies. suppliers, except for storage. We cooperate with our suppliers for sales and for domestic market products in For domestic market products, we always seek to maintain Turkey. a certain inventory of products so that our customers can receive their orders as quickly as possible. In order to We carry out the processes of storage, feeding of quickly meet customer orders when demand exceeds our manufacturing and export shipments within our forecasts due to potential fluctuations in the market, we organization. We have a pellet capacity of about 20,000 keep the finished-products safety stocks, which are ready in our warehouses at the Gebze and Çerkezköy Production for sale, on a product basis. For export and contracted Plants and the warehouse services that we obtain from our products, inventories are not planned beyond their order solution partners. Virtually 100% of our capacity is used, quantity, as the production is planned on an order basis and it is rotated at a monthly turnover rate of about 80%. Semi-Finished Product Stocks Planning: These are The warehouse is fully automated and unmanned. This stocks that are built up due to the duration of the production removes the risk of damage to the inventory as well as and quality control processes. the risk of dispatching the wrong product or raw material. We have procedures and instructions for supplier selection Raw Material and Packaging Material Stocks Planning: and user needs, contracts and technical specifications in Material requirement planning is executed on SAP software the field of logistics, and all processes are carried out in based on the prepared 6-month production plans. New accordance with these procedures and instructions. This demands are decided by using the SAP reports containing minimizes the risks to the lowest level. stock, demand (usage), purchase order and purchase demand information of the raw materials and packaging materials, and purchase order revisions according to the stock policies. We maintain safety stocks in varying quantities depending on the properties of the materials so that we have the flexibility to perform the changes needed in the production plans when necessary, and to quickly overcome potential risks. SUPPORTING PHYSICIANS IMPROVEMENT Within the framework of the regulations set by the Ministry of Health, in addition to providing support to national congresses and scientific conventions, we also provide support for doctors to attend scientific conferences. In line with the demand coming from doctors, the requests are assessed in accordance with the promotion regulations and the necessary support is provided in accordance with the regulations. ANNEX: TABLES 82 Recalled Products in 2015 Product Name Product Lot The Reason for Recall Quantity of Response Letter No/Date No Recalled Products LARGOPEN 1 G 16 4177009A Appearance defect 88 ÇKG.15/022/11.06.2015 TABLET CRAVIT 500 MG Detection of foreign Product is under FILM-COATED TABLET 4350010A matter in blister the responsibility AKG.15/345 of licence owner Recalled Products in 2016 Product Quantity of Response Letter No/ Product Name The Reason for Recall Lot No Recalled Products Date 3312018A 5 3312019A 1 3312020A 0 3312021A 0 3312022A 3 3312023A 0 3312026A 0 3312027A 5 3312028A 0 3312029A 3 3312032A 0 3312033A 13 3312034A 2 3312035A 0 To change the packaging 3312036A 0 size in order to avoid MUSCOFLEX 8MG 3312037A the risk of exceeding 0 MM.909 / 17.03.2016 20 CAPSUL 3312038A the recommended dose 0 of drugs containing 3312039A 6 thiocolchicoside. 3312040A 3 3312042A 2 3312043A 1 3312044A 0 3312045A 95 3312046A 0 3312047A 44 3312048A 140 3312049A 55 3312050A 0 3312051A 41 3312052A 30 3312054A 1 3312055A 15 83 3312056A 473 3312057A 0 3312058A 0 3312059A 0 3312060A 0 3312061B 18 3312062A 1 3312063A 0 3312064A 1 3312065A 3 3312066A 3 3312067A 8 3312068A 4 3312069A 0 3312072A 0 3312073A 7 3312074A 40 3312075A 38 3312076A 0 3312077A 85 3312078A 4 3312079B 0 3312083A 8 3312084A 0 3312085A 50 3312086A 90 3312087A 10 3312088A 3 3312089A 1 3312090A 3 3312091A 41 3312092A 34 3312093A 182 3312094A 1 3312095A 4 3312098A 19 3312099A 0 3312100A 25 3312101A 15 3312102A 0 3312106A 26 3312107A 29 3312108A 41 84 3312109A 25 3312110A 2 3312111A 15 3312112A 38 3312114A 4 3312115A 16 3312116A 11 3312117A 0 3312118A 17 3312119A 155 3312120A 28 3312121A 36 3312122A 169 3312124A 78 3312125A 8 3312126A 56 3312127A 143 3312128A 13 3312129A 184 3312130A 6 3312131A 0 3312132A 49 3312133A 5 3312136A 0 3312137A 99 3312138A 149 3312139A 79 3312140A 88 3312141A 8 3312142A 0 3312144A 59 3312145A 18 3312146A 561 3312147A 8 3312148A 4 3312149A 23 3312150A 104 3312151A 203 3312152A 16 3312153A 9 3312154A 9 3312155A 69 3312157A 52 85 3312158A 6 3312159A 4 3312160A 6 3312161A 16 4312001A 72 4312002A 39 4312004A 11 4312005A 121 4312006A 7 4312007A 59 4312008A 9 4312009A 6 4312011A 252 4312012A 358 4312013A 404 4312014A 375 4312015A 1336 4312016A 980 4312017A 168 4312018A 1 4312019B 82 4312020A 35 4312021B 785 4312022A 1708 4312023A 1624 4312024A 1648 4312025A 1785 4312026C 1377 4312027A 2008 4312028A 2711 4312029A 2057 4312030A 3131 4312031A 3756 4312032A 6337 4312033A 3647 5312001A 11435 5312002A 1280 5312003A 3236 5312004A 1440 5312005A 6986 5312006A 7965 5312007A 2256 86 5312009A 7227 5312010A 5677 5312011A 10160 5312012A 2890 5312014A 8197 5312015A 8026 5312016A 13153 5312017A 20275 5312018A 21091 5312019A 7775 5312020A 14063 5312021C 11372 5312022A 22205 4605002A 92 5605001A 110 5605002A 179 5605003A 241 5605004A To change the packaging 466 5605005A size in order to avoid 705 LEODEX PLUS 25/8MG the risk of exceeding 5605006A 569 20 TB the recommended dose 5605007A of drugs containing 871 5605008A thiocolchicoside. 1331 5605009A 1451 5605010A 1820 5605011A 1214 5605012A 2559 4263002A Discharge of bottle 331 4263008A contents from the neck 143 GENTAGUT EYE AND portion of the dropper MM.958 / 17.08.2016 EAR DROP 4263010A separating from the bottle 316 body Due to the appearance of a yellow opaque suspension when prepared with the ENFEXIA 750MG IM solvent present in the 4584033 1117 MM.908 / 09.03.2016 ENJ package, it does not comply with the company specifications in terms of its appearance 87 GRI CONTENT INDEX This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option GRI Standard Disclosure Page Number /Explanation Omission GRI 101: Foundation 2016 General Disclosures 102-1 Name of the organization Page 6 102-2 Activities, brands, Pages 6-7 products, and services Page 87 Bilim Plaza, Piyalepaşa Bulvarı 102-3 Location of headquarters Kaptanpaşa Mah. Zincirlikuyu Cad. No:184, Beyoğlu/İstanbul 102-4 Location of operations Pages 6-8 102-5 Ownership and legal form Page 9 102-6 Markets served Pages 7-8 Pages 4, 87 Equity 2015: TL 193,923,985.992 2016: TL 159,308,977.41 Debt 102-7 Scale of the organization 2015: TL 656,244,081.94 2016: TL 728,669,843.08 Quantity of products provided/Total GRI 102: General Number of Operations Disclosures 2016 2015: 173,852,415 2016: 168,411,697 102-8 Information on employees Page 11 and other workers 102-9 Supply chain Pages 12-14, 30-31 There was no significant change in size, 102-10 Significant changes to structure, ownership and supply chain the organization and its supply of the organization during the reporting chain period 102-11 Precautionary Principle Page 34 or approach 102-12 External initiatives Page 14 102-13 Membership of Page 14 associations 102-14 Statement from senior Pages 1, 3 decision-maker 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of Page 18 behavior 88 102-17 Mechanisms for advice Page 18 and concerns about ethics 102-18 Governance structure Pages 9-10, 15 102-40 List of stakeholder Pages 20-22 groups 102-41 Collective bargaining Page 12 agreements 102-42 Identifying and selecting Pages 20-22 stakeholders 102-43 Approach to stakeholder Pages 20-22, 71-72 engagement 102-44 Key topics and concerns Pages 23-24, 71-72 raised 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial Page 23 statements 102-46 Defining report content Page 23 and topic Boundaries 102-47 List of material topics Pages 23-24 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 Page 88 There is no restatements of information 102-48 Restatements of given in previous reports in the Corporate information Responsibility Report for the 2015-2016 period. Page 88 There is no significant change in the list of material topics and topic Boundaries in 102-49 Changes in reporting the content of the 2015-2016 Corporate Responsibility Report compared to the previous report. 102-50 Reporting period Page 5 102-51 Date of most recent Page 5 report 102-52 Reporting cycle Page 5 102-53 Contact point for Page 5 questions regarding the report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Page 87 Standards 102-55 GRI content index Page 87 89 Page 89 The Bilim Pharmaceuticals 20152016 Corporate Responsibility Report contains data audited by independent organizations. Bilim Pharmaceuticals is regularly audited in the fields of Environmental Management, Quality Systems and Occupational Health and 102-56 External assurance Safety. The financial data included in the report was also audited and approved by independent auditing organizations. There is no personal relationship between any of the independent auditing organizations mentioned and the decision makers, including the senior management of the Bilim Pharmaceuticals. Material Topics Growth Strategy 103-1 Explanation of the Pages 26, 28 material topic and its Boundary GRI 103: 103-2 The management Management approach and its components Approach 2016 Pages 26-31 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach GRI 201: Economic 201-4 Financial assistance Pages 26-27 Performance 2016 received from government 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared Page 28 GRI 202: Market to local minimum wage Presence 2016 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the Page 29 local community 203-1 Infrastructure investments GRI 203: Indirect Pages 29, 31 and services supported Economic Impacts 2016 203-2 Significant indirect Pages 28-31 economic impacts GRI 204: 204-1 Proportion of spending on Procurement Pages 30-31 local suppliers Practices 2016 GRI 405: Diversity 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and and Equal Page 28 remuneration of women to men Opportunity 2016 90 Quality Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary GRI 103: 103-2 The management Management Page 69 approach and its components Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product Pages 69-70 GRI 416: Customer and service categories Health And Safety 416-2 Incidents of non2016 compliance concerning the Pages 70-71, 82-86 health and safety impacts of products and services Employee Development 103-1 Explanation of the Pages 61-62 material topic and its Boundary GRI 103: 103-2 The management Management Pages 62-66 approach and its components Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the Pages 63-66 management approach 404-1 Average hours of training Page 63 per year per employee 404-2 Programs for upgrading GRI 404: Training employee skills and transition Pages 64-66 And Education assistance programs 2016 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance Pages 64-66 and career development reviews GRI 405: Diversity 405-1 Diversity of governance And Equal Pages 66-68 bodies and employees Opportunity 2016 Business Ethics 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary GRI 103: 103-2 The management Management Page 18 approach and its components Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption Pages 18-19 GRI 205: Antipolicies and procedures Corruption 2016 205-3 Confirmed incidents of Page 20 corruption and actions taken 91 GRI 206: Anti206-1 Legal actions for antiCompetitive competitive behavior, anti-trust, Page 20 Behavior 2016 and monopoly practices Information Security & Business Continuity 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary GRI 103: 103-2 The management Management Pages 17-18 approach and its components Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Waste Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary GRI 103: 103-2 The management Management Pages 34-35, 41-48, 50 approach and its components Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 303-1 Interactions with water as Pages 38-39 a shared resource GRI 303: Water 303-2 Management of water and Effluents 2018 Pages 42-45 discharge-related impacts 303-3 Water withdrawal Pages 38-39 306-1 Water discharge by Pages 42-45 quality and destination GRI 306: Effluents 306-2 Waste by type and and Waste 2016 Pages 46-48 disposal method 306-3 Significant spills Page 41 Occupational Health and Safety 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary GRI 103: 103-2 The management Management Pages 57-61 approach and its components Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 403-1 Occupational health and Pages 57-59 safety management system 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident Pages 58-59 GRI 403: investigation Occupational Health and Safety 403-3 Occupational health Pages 58-59, 61 2018 services 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and Pages 58-59 communication on occupational health and safety 92 403-5 Worker training on Page 59 occupational health and safety 403-6 Promotion of worker Page 59 health 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and Page 59 safety impacts directly linked by business relationships 403-10 Work-related ill health Page 59 OTHER PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (NON-MATERIAL TOPICS) GRI Standard Disclosure Page Number /Explanation Omission 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Page 36 GRI 301: Materials 301-2 Recycled input materials 2016 used 301-3 Reclaimed products and Pages 49-50 their packaging materials 302-1 Energy consumption within Pages 36-37 the organization GRI 302: Energy 302-4 Reduction of energy 2016 Page 38 consumption GRI 303: Water 303-1 Interactions with water as a Pages 38-39 and Effluents 2018 shared resource 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) Pages 39-40 GHG emissions 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GRI 305: GHG emissions Emissions 2016 305-6 Emissions of ozonePage 40 depleting substances (ODS) 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other Pages 40-41 significant air emissions GRI 307: 307-1 Non-compliance with Environmental environmental laws and Page 50 Compliance 2016 regulations 93 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental GRI 308: Supplier criteria Environmental Pages 13-14, 50 Assessment 2016 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 401-1 New employee hires and Page 54 employee turnover 401-2 Benefits provided to fullGRI 401: time employees that are not Employment 2016 Pages 56-57 provided to temporary or part-time employees 401-3 Parental leave Page 57 Pages 55, 91 GRI 406: Non406-1 Incidents of discrimination In the reporting period, no notification Discrimination and corrective actions taken of violation of the principle of non2016 discrimination was received. 408-1 Operations and suppliers GRI 408: Child at significant risk for incidents of Page 55 Labor 2016 child labor GRI 409: Forced Or 409-1 Operations and suppliers Compulsory Labor at significant risk for incidents of Page 55 2016 forced or compulsory labor 410-1 Security personnel trained GRI 410: Security in human rights policies or Page 55 Practices 2016 procedures GRI 412: 412-2 Employee training Human Rights on human rights policies or Page 55 Assessment 2016 procedures 414-1 New suppliers that were GRI 414: Supplier screened using social criteria Pages 13-14, 55 Social Assessment 2016 414-2 Negative social impacts in Pages 13-14 the supply chain and actions taken 418-1 Substantiated complaints GRI 418: Customer concerning breaches of customer Page 72 Privacy 2016 privacy and losses of customer data 94 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT (UNGC) INDEX PRINCIPLES Page Numbers HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 55 Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 13, 18 LABOUR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 12 Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 55 Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and 55 Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 11, 54-57, 62-69, 93 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 34-35 Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 36-51 Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 36-51 ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 18-20
