COP 2018 PAC Doverie 1 COP 2018 – PAC Doverie STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT FOR THE GLOBAL COMPACT Once again I’m pleased to reaffirm PAC Doverie’s support of the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the four key areas of Human rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. It’s been one more year of commitment and hard work not only to obey but also to promote, in the best possible way, the core values synthesized in those principles. Values that we firmly believe are the key to a better future and a better world for all of us. It’s always been one of our key priorities to be each time a better example of the best and the most responsible business practices. And it will remain one of our strategic goals for the future. We believe we’ve succeeded to achieve a lot in those terms but we know that much more remains to be done. So we’ll keep on doing our best to implement and promote the UNGC principles in all our activities and among all our stakeholders. Daniela Petkova Chair of the Management board of PAC Doverie 2 COP 2018 – PAC Doverie SOME PRACTICAL ACTIONS, TAKEN IN 2018, TO FOLLOW THE GC PRINCIPLES I. Human rights  The Company has successfully undergone the due yearly audit procedure for ISO/IEC 27001:2013 compliance, demonstrating this way a highest level of personal data protection, especially now that the Global Data Protection Regulation has become effective.  A 360 degrees evaluation of all the employees has been performed. Every one of them has been evaluated by his/her colleagues of the same level, his/her subordinates, his/her superiors and him/herself. The results obtained has been used as a basis for the development of new HR policies as well as an increase of the salaries.  At the beginning of the year another increase of the salaries according with the inflation rate was made keeping this way their purchasing power intact. II. Labor  Continued update of all the manuals for the employees with detailed, practical info concerning their rights related to maternity leaves, illness, health & life insurance, working hours, holidays, elected union representatives, etc., all the above mentioned data being available on the Company’s Intranet.  A special motivational team-building for the sales force of the Company was organized encouraging them to be more self-organized and to do more sports and tourism in their spare time. 3 COP 2018 – PAC Doverie III. Environment  The special campaign “100 000 e-mails for 1000 new trees” for gathering as many as possible e-mails of customers in order to use a digital way of communication and cut down the use of paper continued planting more new trees with the help of many volunteers among the employees.  Participation in the fourth edition of the International No elevators day – an initiative aimed to promote the use of the stairs instead of the elevator in order to cut down the use of electricity and promote a life with more physical activity. IV. Anti-corruption  Continued training for a professional behavior in the strictest compliance with both the state laws and the Company’s rules in respect. Miscellaneous During the past year PAC Doverie supported numerous charity activities and sponsored various events, mainly in the culture area, including:  the President’s promotion ball for children deprived of parental care;  the charity Buy a Martenitza – give health bazar ( Martenitza is a traditional Bulgarian symbol used every March 1st as a wish for health and luck during the year), organized in order to raise funds for a Foundation for retarded children;  the Bulgarian Christmas initiative;  the International Workers’ Spartakiad in Albena;  the Junior Achievement Foundation project for basic financial education at the secondary school;  The ninth edition of the Golden Eye Cinematography Festival in Popovo, etc. 4 COP 2018 – PAC Doverie As usual, the traditional charity Christmas lottery for the employees took place aimed, for second consecutive year, to raise money for the little Dany, suffering cerebral palsy and bravely struggling to walk again and have a future of a healthy person. This COP will also be available on our official internet site www.poc-doverie.bg Contact persons: Daniela Petkova – Chair of the MB Miroslav Marinov – Executive Director Asen Asenov – Corporative Communications Director PAC Doverie JSC 13B Tintyava str. Sofia 1113 Bulgaria E-mail: head@poc-doverie.bg Tel.: +359 2/ 46 46 196 5 COP 2018 – PAC Doverie
