MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FY 2017-18 INDEX EXECUTIVE MESSAGES 01 REPORTING PROCESSES 05 COMPANY PROFILE 06 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 09 SUSTAINABILITY AND US 12 DRIVEN BY OUR PEOPLE 23 PRODUCT PERFORMANCE 30 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 38 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE 45 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE 63 ANNEXURES 73 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN Our Rise philosophy is all about seeing problems as opportuni es to grow, learn and improve. We look at Climate change in the same light. To us, climate change oﬀers a ﬁnancial and business opportunity worth $6 trillion over the next two decades. To make the most of this opportunity, we need to Rise to the occasion collabora vely. I have been evangelising at various interna onal and na onal fora for corporates to come forward and align their strategies with the aspira ons embodied in the Paris Agreement through the Science Based Targets (SBTs) ini a ve. This will provide them a deﬁned pathway to future-proof growth. The Mahindra Group is commi ed to the Paris Agreement. Thirteen Group companies including M&M Ltd. have commi ed to SBTs ini a ve. Two Mahindra companies with the highest emissions Tech Mahindra and Mahindra Sanyo Special Steel had Science Based Targets are already commi ed to SBTi earlier this year and MSSSPL has since become good for planet, they are good the ﬁrst metals company in the world to have approved science based for pro ts too. Mahindra Group emissions targets. businesses have demonstrated While SBTs are good for planet, they are that decarbonisation is possible good for proﬁts too. Mahindra Group businesses have demonstrated that while boosting employment, decarbonisa on is possible while boos ng employment, investment, and innova on. investment, and innovation. We are already genera ng revenue of USD 400 million from our green businesses. In the last 5 years, we saved enough energy to supply electricity to 14,525 Indian homes for a year. 01 MAHINDRA & SUSTAINABILITY MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 17-18 Here are some of the ini a ves undertaken at M&M to contribute to the planet, people and to do so proﬁtably. PLANET PEOPLE PROFIT Mahindra & Mahindra con nues its Our people have been driving sustainability FY 2017-18 was a good year for M&M with a commitment to reduce its carbon footprint. at M&M and they will con nue to do so. sterling performance, both by the Auto and In 2016, M&M became the ﬁrst Indian Science-based targets will provide our Farm Equipment businesses. A normal company to announce its internal carbon employee with more opportuni es to share monsoon, along with a revival in rural price of $10 per tonne of carbon emissions. their ideas on innova on and technology demand, strong cost focus and a turnaround The move was in line with its business which will in turn help us in delivering value in the trucks business, ensured that along commitment to reduce its GHG emissions by in the future. with top-line growth, the Company posted a 25% over the next three years. We have strong bo om-line growth as well. taken on emission and carbon footprint Diversity is also gaining increasing focus. reduc on targets as per the SBT framework, When we started our gender diversity which is a tes mony of our con nuing eﬀorts journey, women cons tuted 16% of our The Mahindra Group crossed to combat climate change. total workforce. INR 2 trillion in market capitalisa on All our plants have been recer ﬁed under the during the year. This is a tes mony to ISO 14001: 2015 and OHSAS 18001:2007 Today, there are 26% women at the its commitment to the Rise of all its standards and are in the process of adop ng entry level and 7% at the mid and stakeholders. the revised environmental standard ISO senior leadership levels. 14001: 2015. The Mahindra Leadership University (MLU) is The future looks bright as we rise to the Over the last two years, our total a strategic ini a ve to groom and develop opportuni es hidden in the challenge called water consump on has come down our talent. Mahindra & Mahindra MLU climate change. by almost 1,34,696 m3. provided more than 16,59,620 man-days of training in FY 2017-18 to create leaders with both leadership and domain capabili es. Automo ve Sector and Farm Equipment We work for a brighter future not just for Sector recycled and reused 35% and 43% ourselves, but also for the communi es respec vely of the total water consumed. where we operate. Our CSR contribu ons stand at INR 81.97 crore in FY 2017-18 with a Anand G. Mahindra Our ﬂagship ini a ve, Hariyali has become a Chairman, Mahindra Group tree planta on movement. In FY 2017-18, focus on the girl child, youth and farmers in over 1.5 million trees were planted under the the domains of educa on, health and project. Of this, M&M alone planted environment. 1,302,488 trees. Livelihood training followed by placements We follow a zero-waste philosophy and was provided to 6,323 young people through manage waste at every stage from the Mahindra Pride Schools and 41,687 were preven on to minimisa on, from reuse to trained through the Mahindra Pride recycling and from energy recovery and classroom model. disposal. As part of this philosophy, ﬁve Nanhi Kali, a ﬂagship CSR project that plants were cer ﬁed as zero waste to landﬁll supports the educa on of underprivileged in April 2018. girls is suppor ng 1,43,992 Nanhi Kalis across 4,900 centers, in 12 states. Our Integrated Watershed Management Program with the government of Madhya Pradesh has been implemented in 48 villages beneﬁ ng 35,265 people. 02 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN, GROUP SUSTAINABILITY COUNCIL Mahindra's impact in the area of sustainability is the result of ac ons taken by our colleagues across the company. This repor ng year the Mahindra Sustainability nd Framework was formally launched on 2 October, 2017 at all Mahindra loca ons across the country. The Framework is now a guiding light in all the sustainability programs and ini a ves taken up by the company. ENGAGING THE EMPLOYEES While the company has taken a lot ac on to reduce its carbon footprint, the highlight of the year was the scaling up of ac ons taken by individual employees to adopt sustainable prac ces in their lives. More than 25,000 people across the company adopted LED lights, energy eﬃcient fans, energy eﬃcient air-condi oners and aerators for taps. Many employees took steps to reduce their energy consump on at home and par cipated in a compe on run by the company. They also adopted cloth bags instead of plas c and At Mahindra, we took enthusias cally par cipated in programs where experts explained how each individual the three brand pillars of could reduce his or her own footprint. Mahindra's rise philosophy DEVELOPING accepting no limits, TA L E N T alternative thinking and Our goal is to be one of the top 50 most admired global brands by 2021 and it is only driving positive change our people who can help us reaching that goal. to the next level this year. We consistently encourage gender and cultural diversity among our We worked harder, workforce. It is a ma er of pride that smarter and faster to make the Swaraj Division experienced a 65% increase in women employees in core our products more sustainable. tractor manufacturing over last year. Our innovations focused on To ensure that this talent pool is equipped with the right skills to navigate the emerging making processes business landscape we have regularly conducted training sessions. During the environment friendly. repor ng period the company devoted about 60,000 mandays towards trainings which are imparted through the innova ve Mahindra Leadership University, which is a strategic ini a ve to groom and develop talent. 03 MAHINDRA & SUSTAINABILITY MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 17-18 The employee social media outreach They were also exposed to the intensive work that we will achieve the goal long before the ini a ve, M-advocates, created 1,500 pieces done in Mahindra factories on energy deadline of 2030. In addi on the quantum of of Mahindra related content which led to eﬃciency and adop on of the ideas renewable energy in our energy basket over 400,000 engagements and garnered developed during the exposure visit helped jumped from 3,909 MWh in the previous over 22 million impressions on social media. them reduce their costs of opera on. year to 8,972 MWh this year, an increase of over 100%. EXCELLING ADOPTING The year also saw one of our factories WITH PRODUCTS TECHNOLOGICAL become the ﬁrst in the country and the A D VA N C E M E N T S Mobility and agriculture are two key areas for second in the world to be cer ﬁed as a impact in the sustainability journey and zero waste to landﬁll loca on. To develop and deliver products of the Mahindra and Mahindra Ltd. is well future, one needs to adopt and adapt to the posi oned to make a contribu on in both. In technologies and processes of the future. As a concerned corporate ci zen we are the last ﬁnancial year we made signiﬁcant Next genera on digital technologies are eager to address environmental issues of progress in both the e-mobility and the farm impac ng conven onal business models na onal importance. With the aim of equipment spaces by introducing products and this trend will only accelerate in the addressing the Delhi air pollu on crisis that are eco-friendly. coming years. caused by burning of crop residues, we have Mahindra ac vely engages with all electric joined hands with Indraprastha Gas Limited mobility pla orms in the country to enable (IGL) to design and develop plants to the success of this new form of environment We are taking rapid strides in this new produce compressed natural gas from crop friendly transporta on. It is a key partner in world and are amongst the ﬁrst in residues and organic waste. the government's eﬀort to promote electric India to adopt Industry 4.0. and The cul vators will earn from the waste mobility in the country. leverage it to automate and integrate produced in their farms and the emissions shop-ﬂoor processes and machines at from crop residue burning will reduce apart This year we added the e-Alfa Mini, a 3-wheeler to our e-por olio of e2oPlus, Mahindra & Mahindra. from reducing the impact of crop residue eVerito, and eSupro. Not only do our electric burning on Delhi's air pollu on. vehicles reduce pollu on by elimina ng To enable lifelike experience of products tailpipe emissions, they also signiﬁcantly before they are manufactured or prototyped reduce fuel costs for owners and operators and thereby save precious resources and EMPOWERING of our vehicles. me, Mahindra Research Valley has set up a THE COMMUNITY Mahindra has ini ated the journey towards Virtual Reality Lab. The ul mate goal of doing business at driverless tractors, one of the key On the customer side the business is using Mahindra is to drive posi ve change in the components of precision farming. This virtual reality to take the showroom lives of our stakeholders and enable them to technology is set to make farming more experience where showrooms do not exist rise. This year there was impressive growth in proﬁtable and address the issue of and also enhance the experience within the number of beneﬁciaries of our agricultural labour shortage that farmers are showrooms. The business is trying to community outreach programs. The Nanhi experiencing in diﬀerent parts of the country. leverage blockchain and other digital Kali project has posi vely impacted the lives In addi on we also unveiled the Trackstar a technologies to deliver products and services of 1, 43,992 underprivileged girls, an increase new tractor for small farmers of the country. in a be er manner. of 10% from 2016-17. PA R T N E R I N G R E J U V E N AT I N G T H E S U P P LY C H A I N THE ENVIRONMENT Stakeholder feedback is a key driver of our sustainability strategy. I would urge you to Members of the supply chain are a key part Carbon pricing, water neutrality, zero waste read this report and share with us your views of our success. In the course of the year a & circular economy have been well and comments on how we can make our number of programs were done with and for established pillars of our environmental world more sustainable and inclusive. our suppliers to help them become more bo om-line. sustainable. As part of our ongoing endeavor to reduce Most notably more than 200 of our suppliers the natural resource footprint of our adopted the LED program at their premises opera ons the energy required to produce and joined M&M in the journey to be 100% one vehicle con nued to go down towards Ulhas N. Yargop LED companies. the EP100 target of doubling energy Chairman, Group Sustainability Council, produc vity on a 2009 baseline. It is clear Mahindra Group 04 REPORTING PROCESS REPORT BOUNDARY The repor ng period of M&M Ltd. for its 10th Sustainability Report is 1st April 2017 to 31st March 2018. As men oned in our ﬁrst Sustainability Report in FY 2007-08, we remain commi ed to report our triple bo om line performance on an annual basis. For this Report, we are following the GRI Sustainability Repor ng Standards. The most widely adopted non-ﬁnancial repor ng framework in the world, the GRI Standards are used to help communicate sustainability performance and encourage transparency & accountability. This year too, the Report is aligned with the nine principles of Ministry of Corporate Aﬀairs' Na onal Voluntary Guidelines (NVG) on social, environmental and economic responsibili es of business. There have been no signiﬁcant changes in the scope of the report from that reported in the Integrated report 2016-17. The Report Report Scope includes Limitations Ÿ Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. This Report is India-centric and excludes: This report has been Automo ve Division (AD) externally assured by DNV GL. Ÿ Interna onal opera ons Ÿ Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. Ÿ Businesses which were acquired or This report has been prepared in accordance Farm Division (FD) commenced opera ons in FY 2017-18 with the GRI Standards: Core op on. Ÿ Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. Ÿ Companies/plants/loca ons of Swaraj Division (SD) manufacturing sectors Ÿ Mahindra Trucks and Buses Ltd. (MTBL) Ÿ Spares Business Unit (SBU) Ÿ SsangYong Motor Company Ltd. Ÿ Mahindra Research Valley (MRV) Ÿ Swaraj Engine Ltd. Ÿ Mahindra Gujarat Tractor Ltd. Ÿ Corporate Centre Mahindra Towers Worli (CC) Ÿ Mahindra (China) Tractor Co. Ÿ Mahindra USA INC Ÿ Mahindra Yueda (Yancheng) Tractor Co. Your valuable feedback and sugges ons are solicited to Loca on of the organisa on's headquarters sharpen our eﬀorts and reports. Please spare a few minutes to share your insights. Please email your sugges ons / MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED views / opinions to: sustainability@mahindra.com Gateway Building, Apollo Bunder, Mumbai 400 001 GRI 102-45, 102-46 05 MAHINDRA & SUSTAINABILITY MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 17-18 COMPANY PROFILE MAHINDRA GROUP The Mahindra Group is a USD 20.7 billion federa on of companies that enables people to rise through innova ve mobility solu ons, driving rural prosperity, enhancing urban living, nurturing new businesses and fostering communi es. CORE PURPOSE BRAND PILLARS DRIVING Headquartered in India, ACCEPTING ALTERNATIVE POSITIVE NO LIMITS THINKING Mahindra employs over CHANGE 2,40,000 people across 100 countries Though we operate across vast geographies, our governing spirit of 'Rise' binds us as one CORE VALUES Mahindra, dicta ng that we empower Professionalism | Good Corporate Citizenship people everywhere to not only chart new Customer First | Quality Focus | Dignity of the Individual fron ers, but to conquer them too. We remain commi ed to inves ng in technology, growing our global presence and maintaining our leadership posi on. Our vision is to to make 'Mahindra' one of the 50 most admired global brands by 2021. A brand that is innova ve, a brand that is global and a brand that cares. Guided by the three pillars 'Accep ng No Limits, Alterna ve Thinking and Driving Posi ve Change', we strive to build not just products and services, but new possibili es for a truly sustainable future. It enjoys a leadership Learn more about Mahindra on position in utility www.mahindra.com / Twi er & Facebook @MahindraRise vehicles, information technology, nancial services and vacation M&M LIMITED ownership in India Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd., a mobility products and farm solu ons provider, is the ﬂagship and is the world’s Company of the Mahindra Group. Since assembling our ﬁrst vehicle in 1947, we have grown rapidly. Today, we oﬀer a wide range of products and solu ons ranging from SUVs, electric largest tractor vehicles, pickups, commercial vehicles, tractors, two-wheelers, small aircra and boats that are company, by volume. tough, rugged, reliable, environment-friendly, and fuel-eﬃcient. It also enjoys a strong presence in agribusiness, We are one of India's leading vehicle manufacturers and its leader in u lity vehicles. The aerospace, commercial vehicles, components, only aircra maker in India, we are the pioneers in electric car manufacturing. Produc on of defense, logis cs, real estate, renewable boats makes us the country's only manufacturer with vehicles on land, air, and sea. We energy, speedboats and steel, amongst other commenced our exports in the 1960s, and today, our vehicles and tractors can be found in all businesses. six con nents of the world in over 70 countries. 06 Shareholding Pattern FARM DIVISION As an Indian mul na onal with a global drive, we have a diversiﬁed shareholding pa ern. Star ng with India's Green Revolu on in the 1960s, we made 'driving rural prosperity' 20.45% one of our deﬁning goals. Now, a er more Promoters than 5 decades, with end-to-end mechanisa on, agri-inputs, advisory and 4.61% post-harvest services, we empower farmers Non Promoter Non Public everywhere. 5.81% Shares held by custodian for GDRs & ADRs We've been India's leading tractor maker for over 17.23% thirty years, with a 40%+ Public Shareholding (Non-Ins tu ons) market share and our 51.90% tractors are tilling land in Public Shareholding (Ins tu ons) more than 40 countries. For more informa on about our shareholding pa ern, please refer to page 98 of our Annual Report 2018. Introduced MyAgriGuru, a digital h p://www.mahindra.com/resources/investor-reports/FY18/ Announcements/Mahindra-and-Mahindra-Annual-Report-2017-2018.pdf pla orm that connects the farmers and agri-experts across the country. They interact with each other in a AUTOMOTIVE DIVISION realme manner on the pla orm. Our story in mobility began in 1947 with assembling a Willys a ready-for-anywhere vehicle. From that introduc on of the u lity vehicles to India, we have a come a long way to be a leader in the segment and a leading vehicle manufacturer. We have also expanded in terms of geography with our vehicles running across six con nents, in over 70 countries. Businesses in the Division h p://www.mahindra.com/business/ farm-equipment Mahindra (China) Tractor Co.* Mahindra Yueda (Yancheng) Tractor Co.* Micro-irriga on Business EPC Industries Ltd. In 2017-18, we achieved a milestone of Businesses in the Division Mahindra USA Inc.* h p://www.mahindra.com/business/automo ve th Mahindra Samriddhi 1000 patent Mahindra Graphic Research Design* Mahindra Vehicle Manufacturers Limited Mahindra Powerol * Mahindra (China) Tractor Co., Mahindra USA Inc. and Mahindra Yueda (Yancheng) Tractor Co. are not in Spares Business Unit (SBU) the scope of this report. Mahindra Navistar Automo ve* SsangYong Motor Company* Mahindra Electric (formerly, Mahindra REVA) For complete details on how our products *Mahindra Graphic Research Design, create value for our customers and the Mahindra Navistar Automo ve, SsangYong Motor environment, please refer to the Product Company are not in the scope of this report. Performance sec on of the report. 07 MAHINDRA & SUSTAINABILITY MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 17-18 AWARDS At Mahindra, awards are not the ends, they are the means to create more value. They not only build the brand, but also mo vate the employees to work to their highest poten al, encourage the customers to buy our products with conﬁdence, and inspire all our stakeholders to proudly associate with us. The recogni ons are a reassurance of our right direc on and enhance our belief to con nue on the track to achieve our purpose. Below are some of the signiﬁcant honours received during the year: Environment CSR Supply Chain Ÿ 6 M&M plants have won the CII Na onal Ÿ FICCI Road Safety Analysis & Ac on Award Ÿ AD Haridwar plant won the 'Manufacturing Energy Conserva on Awards and the CII for 'Zero Fatality Corridor' project on the Supply Chain Opera onal ExcellenceNa onal Water Management Awards Mumbai Pune Expressway Automobile Category' in the 'Manufacturing Supply Chain Awards' organised by Ÿ Zaheerabad plant was awarded the Ÿ Socially Aware Corporate for the Year 2017 Kamikaze B2B Media Na onal Energy Conserva on Award 2017 by Business Standard for 'Zero Fatality Corridor' Project on Mumbai Pune Ÿ AD Kandivali SCM Team bagged the Ÿ AD Kandivali Foundry bagged the Green Expressway Manufacturing Supply Chain Award for Foundry of the Year award for 2017 Opera onal Excellence in Procurement Ÿ Energy and Environment Founda on Global CSR Award for 'Zero Fatality Corridor' Ÿ MVML wins big at the SCM Pro's 3rd Sustainability Project on Mumbai Pune Expressway Logis cs & Supply Chain Awards 2017 Ÿ M&M won the Indo German Chamber of Commerce Award 2017 for 'Best Ÿ Corporate Ci zen of the Year 2017 by Sustainable Business Prac ces’ Economic Times for Nanhi Kali and Others Integrated Watershed Management Ÿ M&M (Igatpuri) won the Global Programme at Damoh, Madhya Pradesh Ÿ AS Nashik Plant was the winner of ISMS Sustainability Award (Pla num Ra ng) and Best Prac ces compe on Best Sustainability Ini a ve Pavilion at The Ÿ CSR Journal Excellence Award for World Renewable Energy Congress Agriculture & Rural Development for Ÿ FD Nagpur Plant bagged the ﬁrst prize in organised by The Energy and Environment Integrated Watershed Management ISMS Best Prac ces compe on Founda on and supported by MNRE Programme at Damoh, Madhya Pradesh Ÿ Igatpuri Plant awarded in 3M compe on by CII at New Delhi Ÿ Mahindra Powerol and Mahindra CE honoured at the EPC World Awards 2017 Ÿ Tool and Die Plant Nashik won the Excellence Award at NCQC 17 at Mysore Ÿ AD Nashik Plant bagged the Greentech Safety Award 2017 08 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Good governance is the cornerstone of a successful and sustainable company. At Mahindra, governance has been part of the DNA of the company right from its incep on and has been embedded into our brand. It enables be er decision making and performance, gives us strategic compe ve advantage, increases stakeholder conﬁdence and trust, and generates long-term sustainable value for the stakeholders. We have chosen to be transparent, despite higher than the 50% requirement. The audit We are also planning to put in place a there being no mandate on us. For instance, commi ee of M&M was cons tuted in 1987, mechanism that will ins tu onalise we have been repor ng back to our which was 17 years before regulator made it governance as a process. shareholders on corporate governance, long mandatory. We have been spending 1% of All key decision points will be tested for its before the law made it mandatory. We have our net proﬁts on CSR from 1995, much following 3 'C's, which form the root of ins tu onalised the highest benchmarks of before Companies Act 2013 made it governance. Also, in order to ins tu onalise corporate working and behaviours in our mandatory. governance as a process, every point of processes. Through our governance prac ces we have decision making needs to be tested for 3 'C'sA set of core values and corporate been able to infuse trust and conﬁdence competency, compliance and conﬂict-ofgovernance policies have been ar culated among our stakeholders, a ract and retain interest eradica on. and structures like the corporate governance ﬁnancial and human capital, and maintain council are ﬁrmly in place to ensure that all the social & rela onship capital. governance issues are eﬀec vely and transparently addressed. We place great SHAREHOLDER VALUE emphasis on empowerment, integrity and We follow UNESCO's safety of our employees, maintaining a de nition of Governance – At M&M, prosperity and value crea on for our diverse and vibrant work environment, and it refers to the shareholders doesn't come at the expense of upholding transparency in all our dealings. environment and community. We believe in structures and crea ng shared value for society by addressing Our governance eﬀorts have paid oﬀ sustainably not just in ﬁnancial value but has processes that ensure its challenges. This helps us reconnect our also delivered on intangibles such as accountability, success with the social progress. increased reputa on and goodwill. transparency, Apart from sharing the value, we also M&M has consistently delivered returns empower our shareholders with the responsiveness, knowledge of how we create, sustain and way above the market 19% over 25 years. We are one of the top 50 most admired rule of law, stability, enhance value by u lising ﬁnancial, equity and inclusiveness, manufactured, intellectual, human, social, and brands globally and occupy a unique posi on natural capitals. We have interac ve pla orms that we have achieved through keeping the empowerment and in place where we share the performance and governance to the highest level. broad-based participation. progress, while solici ng pointers and M&M has also been proac vely complying perspec ves. These lead to possibili es and with regulatory requirements. We have 70% plans that results in increased shareholder independent directors on board, which is value as well as trust. 09 MAHINDRA & SUSTAINABILITY MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 17-18 GOVERNANCE Currently, the Board has the following Commi ees: CORE VALUES FRAMEWORK Ÿ Audit Commi ee Our Core Values inspire us to enable the The purpose of Mahindra's governance world to Rise and lead by sustainabilityframework is to provide prudent Ÿ Governance Remunera on and social, economic and environmental. They are Nomina on Commi ee an amalgama on of what we have been, what management and oversight of business to protect the interest of all the stakeholders. It we are and what we con nue to be: Ÿ Share Transfer and Shareholders / brings all our businesses, subsidiaries, Investors Grievance Commi ee Good Corporate Citizenship associates and joint ventures under its ambit Ÿ Research & Development Commi ee Professionalism and ﬁrmly ins ls the Group's objec ves in (a voluntary ini a ve of the Company) everyday opera ons. The framework includes comprehensive monitoring of the progress Ÿ Strategic Investment Commi ee Customer First and spearheading opera onal excellence (a voluntary ini a ve of the Company) Quality Focus across ver cals. Ÿ Loans & Investment Commi ee (a voluntary ini a ve of the Company) Dignity of the Individual Ÿ Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Commi ee Code of Conduct For more informa on on each commi ee, roles The Code of Conduct clariﬁes an and responsibili es of the directors and the members, please refer page no.139 of our organisa on's mission, values and principles, Annual Report FY 2017-18. linking them with standards of professional h p://www.mahindra.com/resources/investorconduct. Ethique e, our Code of Conduct, is reports/FY18/Announcements/Mahindra-andour central policy document which is Mahindra-Annual-Report-2017-2018.pdf benchmarked with the best in business. It outlines the principles that every single person working for and with the Company, PURPOSE must comply with regardless of loca on. In Board of Directors AND VALUES addi on, individual business units issue policies that provide more speciﬁc guidance The Board at Mahindra thinks strategically about certain business prac ces. and makes sure that we s ck to the mission, The purpose of Mahindra's governance values, and serve the customers and key framework is to provide prudent stakeholders well. The composi on of the management and oversight of business to Board of Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. is in protect the interest of all the stakeholders. It conformity with Regula on 17 of the Lis ng brings all our businesses, subsidiaries, t t t Regula ons. associates and joint ventures under its ambit uc uc uc nd nd nd co co co -of-of-ofde de de and ﬁrmly ins ls the Group's objec ves in co co co • • • The Execu ve Chairman of Mahindra & iqu te et iqu te et iqu te et everyday opera ons. eth eth eth Mahindra Ltd., though a Professional Director t• t• t• on du c du c du c on on de -ofc de -of-ofin his individual capacity, is a Promoter and • te et co c te et • co de • te et co c the number of Non-Execu ve and iqu iqu iqu eth eth eth Independent Directors is more than one half CORE PURPOSE of the total number of Directors. The CoC enables eﬀec ve stakeholder Mr. Anand G. Mahindra, Execu ve Chairman engagement, faster & fairer decisions, and Dr. Pawan Goenka, Managing Director are transparent & unambiguous processes, and a the Wholeme Directors of Mahindra & professional & ethical conduct. It underlines Mahindra Ltd. The remaining Non-Execu ve our responsibili es to our people, partners Directors, comprising eight Independent and shareholders as well as mandates us to: Directors including a Woman Director and Ÿ Behave in an ethical manner, take one Non-Independent Director who are highly pride in our actions and decisions renowned professionals drawn from diverse ﬁelds, possess the requisite qualiﬁca ons and Ÿ Comply with the principles and rules experience which enable them to contribute to our growth and enhance the quality of in our Code, and ful l our legal and Board's decision-making process. regulatory obligations Ÿ Seek guidance wherever required Board Committees To challenge conventional thinking if we feel a working practice is not and innovatively use all our Board commi ees are important for resources to drive positive change ethical or safe members to understand their individual in the lives of our stakeholders and responsibili es and for the Board to organise communities across the world Ÿ Report non-compliance or breach of itself and perform the necessary tasks our Code immediately to enable them to rise. eﬀec vely. At M&M, these commi ees ensure implementa on, streamlining, For more informa on on implementa on of the monitoring and giving appropriate direc on Code of Conduct, please refer to page 145 of our to the day-to-day working of the companies. Annual Report FY 2017-18. 10 POLICIES COMPLIANCE Our policies are outcomes of our Compliance is a non-nego able at Mahindra. Our compliance commi ee ensures that all commitment to our core values and that regula ons are respected in le er and spirit. Being a global company, we abide by all guide us in our day-to-day opera ons and interna onal and na onal laws, and uphold the standards of transparency and accountability. help in governance. They con nuously evolve with prevailing regula ons and by During the last decade of reporting, there was no interac ons with stakeholders. instance of non-compliance by the Group. A snapshot of our policies: Corporate Communica ons | Disaster Management | We incurred no ﬁnes from any regulatory authority for non-compliance of laws and regula ons Employee Rela ons | Environment and in the repor ng period. Pollu on | Capital Budge ng | Corporate Finance | Quality | Corporate Representa on Regulatory Compliance in Trade & Industry Forums | Dealing with Dealers and Customers | E-business Security We strictly adhere to all the regulatory laws, guidelines and speciﬁca ons relevant to our Insider Trading | Intranet Usage | Investor business. Our audit commi ee ensures strict adherence and regulatory compliance, round-theGrievances | Investor Rela ons | Safety & year. In case any related observa ons are made, they are immediately brought to the no ce of Occupa onal Health | Human Resources | the site senior management and necessary correc ve ac ons are executed. Sexual Harassment | Trade Marks | Suppliers Regulatory compliance is periodically reviewed by the Group Execu ve Board (GEB). and Vendors of Services & Products | Green IT Guidelines | Green Supply Chain Management e-Cockpit Portal for Regulatory Compliance With the objec ve of further improving our compliance processes, we have created e-cockpit, an Business electronic pla orm, through which various stakeholders such as shareholders, board of directors, Responsibility Policy key managerial personnel and other stakeholders can interact, within the overall regulatory framework. The portal will provide informa on that is required for various stakeholders to ensure We abide by an all-embracing Business their compliance. Responsibility policy incorpora ng economic, social and environmental accountabili es of business as approved by our CSR Commi ee Board. PUBLIC POLICY AND ADVOCACY It is formulated in alignment with the nine principles of Business Responsibility, Businesses ﬂourish in a sound legal and regulatory environment. For such an environment to required by SEBI as per clause 55 of the emerge it is important that private sector par cipates in the policy-making process. Lis ng Agreement. For more informa on on what this policy As one of the biggest automotive manufacturers in India, covers, refer to our Annual report h p://www.mahindra.com/resources/investorMahindra & Mahindra serves as a uni ed voice for the reports/FY18/Announcements/Mahindra-andindustry to help the government shape better policies. Mahindra-Annual-Report-2017-2018.pdf Anti-corruption Policies and Procedures At M&M, we have zero tolerance against any kind of corrup on and strict ac on is taken against anyone found indulging in such unprincipled act. Corporate Governance & Business Ethics are an essen al part of our induc on process and an integral part of our Code of Conduct. All employees are expected to exhibit the highest level of integrity in every sphere of ac vity. Our top management has a constant dialogue with the policy makers and inﬂuencers in the na onal and interna onal bodies to provide our industry with specialised informa on and knowledge. Anand Mahindra Pawan Goenka Execu ve ChairmanMahindra & Mahindra Ltd. Managing Director Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. Ulhas Yargop V. S. Parthasarathy Group President (IT Sector), Group CTO & Member, Group CIO M&M Limited and Group Execu ve Board Mahindra Group For more informa on about the memberships of our execu ve members in various organisa ons and ins tu ons, please refer to page 140 of our Annual Report FY 2017-18 11 MAHINDRA & SUSTAINABILITY MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 17-18 SUSTAINABILITY & US Sustainability has become intrinsic to our business behaviour and is the only way we do business. Last year we took a leap in our sustainability journey with a focus on rejuvena on rather than just focusing on conserva on. This year we are taking this journey ahead. Our second integrated report gives insights into our performance for the year 2017-18 and what are the outlook and strategies for the year ahead. Sustainability Structure Sustainability at Mahindra is governed by a top-down approach enabling strategic vision and ac on plan to not just steer grassroots interven ons, but also monitor its eﬀec veness and disclose it transparently. BOARD COMMITTEE FOR CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Set direc ons for promo ng the CSR agenda for M&M Ltd. and all Group Companies CSR COUNCIL SUSTAINABILITY COUNCIL Approves & monitors spends of philanthropic ac vi es / Approves new ini a ves and monitors progress of projects as per the mandate from the Board Commi ee integra on of the ESG parameters in business & opera ons GROUP SUSTAINABILITY CELL Management of large & long Management and term projects through the various coordina on of Drives sustainability through awareness and founda ons across the Group employee volunteerism knowledge building across the Group Supports individual businesses in integra ng sustainability For more informa on on our Governance Structure for Sustainability, in strategic business processes and opera ons visit our previous Sustainbility Report. h p://www.mahindra.com/How-We-Help/Environment/Sustainability-Reports Makes all external disclosures SUSTAINABILITY CHAMPIONS Located at all plants / oﬃces to locally drive & monitor various ini a ves and collect data for repor ng MATERIALITY We periodically evaluate Material Issues at M&M are what ma ers most to our stakeholders. It enables us to gauge our material issues to stakeholder concerns, thoughts, a tudes and ideas towards social, environment and economic introspect as well as issues. It not only provides us the strategic business insights but also allows our stakeholders to be part of the decision making, builds rapport with them and bolsters trust. Our materiality shape the future course mapping exercise addresses our precau onary approach to addressing issues of importance for of action across the triple the company. bottom line. We have also continually enhanced the Determining material issues in stakeholder iden ﬁca on is the ﬁrst step which is followed by engagement mechanism in order to communicate with them on a regular basis. breadth and depth of our analysis to sharpen our The responses received from them are ﬁltered and rated by the level of importance by us and materiality identi cation our stakeholders. Accordingly, we arrive at our materiality for automo ve and farm divisions. process. 12 AUTOMOTIVE DIVISION 100% 42 25 11 3 19 90% 45 31 28 34 18 36 22 32 2 41 35 44 26 24 5 1 Stakeholder Concern 21 48 10 46 9 23 7 55 80% 14 29 30 39 20 33 17 53 43 13 16 12 27 70% 54 51 40 4 37 50 49 47 6 15 52 8 38 60% 70% 56 80% 90% 100% Business Priority BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL PARAMETERS OF HIGH IMPORTANCE (TOP QUARTILE) 1 Cost Control and Proﬁt Margin 9 End of Life Management 32 Customer Sa sfac on 2 R&D Impetus 21 Water Intensity 33 CSR Management 3 Fuel Eﬃciency 22 Energy Eﬃciency 34 Employee Produc vity 5 Risk Assessment and Compliance 23 Recyclable/Recycled Material 35 Health and Safety 7 Market/Product Compe on 24 Waste Genera on 36 Product Safety 10 Sustainable Mobility: Electric/Hybrid/H2 Vehicle 25 Climate Change and GHG Emissions 44 Training and Educa on 11 Product Quality 26 Pipe Emissions and Reduc on 48 Gender Diversity 18 Supply Chain Op misa on 28 Life Cycle Management 55 Grievance Mechanisms 19 Logis cs Op misa on and Sustainable Logis cs 20 Emerging Market Needs PARAMETERS OF LOW IMPORTANCE 6 Solu on Selling beyond Products 4 Renewable Energy 27 A ri on 8 Integrated Sourcing 29 Packaging 31 Employee Capability (Agility) 12 Light Weigh ng 30 VOC Emissions in Paint Shop 37 Succession Planning 13 Green Dealers 38 Supplier Educa on 14 Modularity in Design 39 Customer Educa on 15 Dealer Proﬁtability 40 Traﬃc Safety 16 Sustainability IT Tool 41 Appeal to Customers 17 Product Obsolescence and Phasing Out 42 Talent Reten on 43 Dealer Consistency (Talent Reten on) 45 Customers' Sa sfac on with Service 46 Urbanisa on and Labour Scarcity 47 Average Age of Plants 49 Brand Image of Mahindra 50 Social Media 51 Shared Value 52 Supplier Sa sfac on (Forecast Accuracy) 53 Strong Visionary Goals on Sustainability/Strategic Considera on 54 Employer A rac on 56 Average Age of Plants GRI 102-47 13 MAHINDRA & SUSTAINABILITY MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 17-18 FARM DIVISION 100% 36 25 90% 13 38 20 39 11 3 15 22 28 14 30 30 17 26 2 Stakeholder Concern 35 29 48 19 7 1 16 49 4 80% 10 18 8 45 12 23 33 27 43 37 47 21 70% 32 44 42 34 6 5 41 40 9 31 46 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% Business Priority BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL PARAMETERS OF HIGH IMPORTANCE (TOP QUARTILE) 1 Cost Control and Proﬁt Margin 17 Water Intensity 25 Customer Sa sfac on 2 R&D Impetus 18 Energy Eﬃciency 26 CSR Management 3 Fuel Eﬃciency 19 Recyclable/Recycled Material 27 Employee Produc vity 4 Farm Tech Prosperity (Farmer Prosperity) 20 Waste Genera on 28 Health and Safety 7 Risk Assessment and Compliance 38 Climate Change and GHG Emissions 29 Grievance Mechanisms 8 Solu on Selling Beyond Products 39 Water Availability 30 Supplier Sa sfac on/Rela onship 11 Product Quality 45 Training and Educa on 13 Soil Health 48 Gender Diversity 14 Supply Chain Op misa on 49 Talent Reten on and Succession Planning 15 Logis cs Op misa on & Sustainable Logis cs 16 Dealer Management 24 Market/Product Compe on PARAMETERS OF LOW IMPORTANCE 5 Integrated Sourcing 47 Packaging 23 Brand Image of Mahindra 6 Dealer Proﬁtability 31 Employee Capability (Agility) 9 Product Obsolescence and Phasing Out 32 A ri on 10 Sustainable Mobility: Electric/Hybrid/H2 Vehicle 33 Appeal to Customers 12 Government Approvals 34 Dealer Consistency 21 Light Weigh ng 35 Talent Reten on 22 Modularity in Design 36 Supplier Educa on 37 Customer Educa on 40 Average Age of Plants 41 Product Safety 42 Customers Sa sfac on with Service 43 Average Age of Plants 44 Urbanisa on and Labour Scarcity Key Materiality Issues 46 Traﬃc Safety Carbon Water Sustainable Health & Product Waste to CSR Emission Security Supply Chain Safety Stewardship Wealth Management GRI 102-47 14 SUSTAINABILITY ROADMAPS The sustainability roadmap at M&M provides us the guidance on integra ng sustainability-related goals and strategies across the organisa on and the supply chain to create value for stakeholders. The Sustainability Roadmaps 2019 have more granulised targets with an aim to embed sustainability even deeper into our business. SUSTAINABILITY ROADMAP 2019 | STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT AD DEALERS Commitment Metrics 2016-17 F18 Target (2017-18) Status F18 Responsibili es* Ÿ Dealers Sustainability Quiz. SUSTAINABILITY Training through More than 300 Dealers par cipated Dealership Nos. E-learning Refresher training AWARENESS Manpower TRAINING (40 dealerships) (40 dealerships) Ÿ Training and awareness material Training shared with all dealerships Ÿ More than 200 dealerships have implemented LED, energy eﬃcient CO2 & WATER Implementa on appliance and capacitor panes in FOOTPRINT Nos. of projects Reduc on by 3% showrooms and workshop which Zonal MAPPING AND (40 dealerships) (40 dealerships) resulted in reduc on of more than 3%. Heads REDUCTION Ÿ ETP installed for water recycle commitment Ÿ More than 300 dealerships are disposing their hazardous waste (oil) WASTE Ini a ves for waste Ini a ves for MANAGEMENT with authorised vendor. Zonal Nos. management waste management INCLUSIVE (40 dealerships) (40 dealerships) Ÿ Recycling of corrugated cartons and Heads OF OIL reuse of wooden waste is implemented as per MDEP survey GREEN Assessment & Decl. Assessment & Decl. Ÿ Green Dealership award will be given Sales DEALER Nos. based on all sustainability parameters of Green dealers of Green dealers Strategy AWARD in the month of July 2018 * AFS Sustainability team will facilitate SUSTAINABILITY ROADMAP 2019 | STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT AFS SUPPLIERS Commitment Metrics 2016-17 F18 Target (2017-18) Status F18 Responsibili es 125 Tier I Suppliers 250 Tier I Suppliers Ÿ 345 Tier 1 Suppliers trained on SSU, Nos. MTWL, SD, MTBD, MTWL, SD, MTBD, Sustainability through e-learning SD SCM, AFS SUSTAINABILITY Construc on Construc on and classroom sessions Sustainability AWARENESS Equipment Equipment SUSTAINABILITY ASSESSMENT & IMPROVEMENT Self-Assessment Ÿ Total 44 online assessment CDMM (AD+FD), % 100% 100% and 43 onsite sustainability AFS Sustainability (IT Enabled) assessment conducted Onsite Assessment Nos. AD 25 | FD 10 AD 50 | FD 20 REDUCTION IN PACKAGING WASTE AD FD AD FD AD FD AD DCM SCM / Corrugated Box Waste Kg /eq veh 5% 8% 10% 16% 17% 39% FD SCM / SSU, AFS Sustainability Wood Waste 5% 13% 26% 75% 15% 62% SUSTAINABILITY Nos. No. of suppliers No. of suppliers Sustainability BSC AD FD SCM/ AFS BALANCE SCORE Sustainability CARD (BSC) AD 30 | FD 20 AD 40 | FD 30 AD 42 | FD 22 15 MAHINDRA & SUSTAINABILITY MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 17-18 SUSTAINABILITY ROADMAP 2019 | STAKEHOLDER (DEALERS) FARM DIVISION Commitment F16 (Roadmap) 2016-17 F18 Target (2017-18) Status F18 Responsibili es* SUSTAINABILITY Training to Refresher training Ÿ 228 Dealers trained throughs CDs AWARENESS New Ini a ve iden ﬁed to iden ﬁed dealers Ÿ 2 webinars conduted by Channel TRAINING dealers webinar/CDs/link Development team Inclusion of Assessment, SUSTAINABILITY Ÿ Assessments completed for Sustainability sustainability As per plan ASSESSMENT Assessment score baseline 577 DSQI dealers; score and THROUGH DSQI Criteria in DSQI & targets F19 baseline available Customer Care Ÿ LED ini a ves with dealerships SUSTAINABILITY Pilot to be and assessed in DSQI. New Ini a ve started with 5 IMPROVEMENT Ÿ Rain water harves ng, energy AT DEALERS dealers (2) efﬁciency and safety parameters are included Ÿ Green Dealership Assessments GREEN Criteria Assessment & Decl. will be done by DSQI. WORKSHOP New Ini a ve AWARD finalisa on of Green dealers Ÿ Top 3 scoring dealers will be awarded in the month of July in Panchratna * AFS Sustainability team will facilitate SUSTAINABILITY ROADMAP 2019 | PLANET (MANUFACTURING) FOR SWARAJ DIVISION Commitment Metrics 2016-17 F18 Target (2017-18) Status F18 CARBON FOOTPRINT MTCO2/Tractor 8% 16% 13% REDUCTION* Carbon Footprint Mi ga on through Energy Management Reduc on in Speciﬁc Electrical Energy Consump on KWh/Tractor 5%<F16 10%<F16 12% Reduc on in Speciﬁc Thermal Mkcal/Tractor 3%<F16 6%<F16 -7% Energy Consump on % Renewable (Wind/Solar) Cumula ve % 0% 1.2% 0 Speciﬁc Water Consump on Reduc on* KL/Tractor 8%<F16 16%<F16 47% Carbon Footprint Mi ga on through Waste Management % reduc on Devising 25%<F16 39%<F16 Hazardous Waste to Landﬁll Strategy Non-Hazardous Waste Reduce & Recycle Kg/Eq Tractor 3%<F16 6%<F16 40%<F16 Speciﬁc Paper Consump on Reduc on Kg/Eq Tractor 15%<F16 30%<F16 38%<F16 Injury % reduc on 30% YOY 30% YOY 19.5%<F17 Reduc on * subject to sanc on of budget against iden ﬁed projects 16 SUSTAINABILITY ROADMAP 2019 | EMPLOYEES & COMMUNITY AFS Commitment UOM 2016-17 F18 Target (2017-18) Status F18 Responsibili es* A ENGAGING STAKEHOLDERS IN SUSTAINABILITY DRIVE LEADERSHIP IN % of Capability SUSTAINABILITY improvement 4.26 4.28 4.31 Building MCARES SCORE SUSTAINABILITY Sector & Plant REFRESHER & 50% coverage 100% ER/Plant HUMAN RIGHTS % (0.5 man-days/ coverage 100% Sustainability TRAINING TO person/year) (cum.) ASSOCIATES Champion Devising MAKING No. of strategy & stakeholders 0.5 Lacs 0.6 lacs SUSTAINABILITY ac on plan PERSONAL for ini a ves EMPLOYEE WELLNESS 10% above 10% above 43% employees IMPROVEMENT % of 45 years 30 years 30 years & above OHC IN HEALTH INDEX improvement of age of age showing health OF EMPLOYEE employees employees index improvement FD Nagpur has been cer ﬁed as Pla num rated Green Building Conversion GREEN of exis ng AD Zaheerabad AD Zaheerabad BUILDING Nos. AD building & FD Nagpur, budget approved, ADMIN CERTIFICATION project @ Igatpuri, MVML Green Co. Kandivali implementa on started MVML In ﬁnal phase of comple on B ENGAGING COMMUNITY IN SUSTAINABILITY DRIVE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY TREE PLANTATION No. of Trees 0.5 Lacs 1.3 Lacs 1.5 Lacs CSR RENEWABLE (SOLAR/WIND) + VILLAGE MW 15 KW 30 KW 37 KW CSR ELECTRIFICATION (CUM.) 17 MAHINDRA & SUSTAINABILITY MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 17-18 SUSTAINABILITY ROADMAP 2019 | MANUFACTURING AD Commitment Metrics 2016-17 F18 Target (2017-18) Status F18 Responsibili es CARBON FOOTPRINT MTCO2 17% 18% 18% REDUCTION* Carbon Footprint Mi ga on through Energy Management Reduc on in Speciﬁc Electrical Energy Consump on KWh/Eq Veh 3% <F16 6%<F16 18%<F16 Reduc on in Speciﬁc Thermal Mkcal/Eq Veh 3%<F16 6%<F16 18%<F16 Energy Consump on % CO % Renewable (Wind/Solar) Cumula ve Mi ga2 on 5.5% 6.5% 5.90% Speciﬁc Water KL/Eq Veh 9%<F16 18%<F16 26%<F16 Mfg Plants Consump on Reduc on* CMD / Plant Sustainability Champion/ Carbon Footprint Mi ga on AFS through Waste Management Sustainability % reduc on Devising 30%<F16 30%<F16 Speciﬁc Hazardous Waste Reduce / Recycle Strategy Absolute Non-Hazardous Waste % CO2 8% 8% Reduce / Recycle (Carbon Strategy) Mi ga on 26%<F16 Speciﬁc Non-Hazardous Waste Devising Reduce / Reuse / Recycle 2 % < F16 Strategy 10%<F16 Paper Consump on Reduc on KG 30%<F16 50%<F16 44%<F16 Injury % reduc on 20% YOY 30% YOY 49%<F16 Reduc on 18 SUSTAINABILITY ROADMAP 2019 | PLANET (MANUFACTURING) FARM EQUIPMENT SECTOR Commitment Metrics 2016-17 F18 Target (2017-18) Status F18 Responsibili es CARBON FOOTPRINT MTCO2 10% 13% 15% REDUCTION* Carbon Footprint Mi ga on through Energy Management Reduc on in Speciﬁc Electrical KWh/Eq Energy Consump on Tractor 5%<F16 10%<F16 19% Reduc on in Speciﬁc Thermal Mkcal/Eq Energy Consump on Tractor 3%<F16 6%<F16 16% Mfg Plants CMD / Plant % Sustainability % Renewable (Wind/Solar) Cumula ve Renewble 5% 6% 5% Champion/ AFS Sustainability Speciﬁc Water KL/Eq Consump on Reduc on* Tractor 8%<F16 21%<F16 30% Carbon Footprint Mi ga on through Waste Management Hazardous Waste % reduc on Devising 25%<F16 18%<F16 Disposal to Landﬁll Strategy Non-Hazardous Waste Kg/Eq Reduce & Recycle Tractor 3%<F16 6%<F16 19%<F16 ADMIN/ Paper Consump on Reduc on KGS 20%<F16 35%<F16 37%<F16 Plant Admin/ AFS Sustainability Injury % reduc on 30% YOY 30% YOY 28%>F17 Reduc on 19 MAHINDRA & SUSTAINABILITY MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 17-18 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT At Mahindra & Mahindra, stakeholder engagement is an exercise to establish a personal connec on with stakeholders and get real me feedback on their expecta ons from us. As value crea on becomes a more dynamic and collabora ve exercise, maintaining vibrant channels of communica on is vital in shaping our strategies, execu ng our plans and enhancing our performance. Stakeholder Engagement Mechanisms Our engagement mechanisms are o en revised to keep up with the changing mes and we develop relevant pla orms most applicable to the stakeholders in ques on. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Employees GROUP CHANNELS At M&M we are sensi ve to the need of an ongoing lively employee engagement. The experience that our employees have at their workplace translates to the experience that our customers have with us. It is clear that good engagement ini a ves infuse every project with purpose, energy and enthusiasm, which in turn improves a tude towards work in general, and Government/ Environmental produc vity. Regulatory Compliance, Our engagement mechanisms are geared to capture employee expecta ons and ambi ons, Authori es Policy Interven on which in turn provide us with insights on how to enhance growth and job sa sfac on. Conferences, workshops, publica ons, newsle ers ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY SUMMIT & reports, online portals, The Annual M&M Sustainability Conference 'SUSTAIN 2017' was held in June at MITC, Kandivali feedback surveys and by the Sustainability Team. Over 100 sustainability advocates across 19 loca ons were present. one-to-one interac ons, The Conference also held a panel discussion with the dialogue centred around the ques on “Is employee involvement sustainability integral to commercial normality and compe veness?” Employees in CSR ac vi es Interviews, personal visits, publica ons, mass media & digital communica ons, feedback camps, plant visits and Customers support programmes Supplier & vendor meets, workshops & trainings, audits, policies, IT-enabled Suppliers informa on sharing tools, & Dealers and recogni on pla orms Annual report, sustainability report, press releases, investor presenta ons, corporate Investors/ website, quarterly and Shareholders annual results A Sustainability Policy and Energy Policy for AD and FD sectors was inaugurated followed by the Sustainability Award ceremonies. The Summit also hosted various sessions on topics that included “Government Regula onsEESL Scheme”, “Best prac ces in Ecosystem, External Companies & ITC”, “Emerging Trends & Prac ces on Sustainable Supply Chain Management”, Local “Water Management” and “Waste Management” which were conducted by experts from EESL, Communi es CSR ac vi es Cognito, ITC, ERM, N S Associates and the Birla Ins tute of Management Technology. OPEN FORUM Educa onal Technical Collabora on, The half yearly open forum, Khula Manch, was organised at FD Kandivali Plant and at FD Nagpur Ins tutes/ Capacity Building, Plant. The senior leadership team used the forum as an opportunity to highlight mid-year Universi es Research business results and also discuss future plans for the year. GRI 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44 20 Customers Local Communities The stronger the rela onship of a business with its customers, the more sustainable is the Corporate ci zenship and the well-being of business. To ensure that this mutual rela onship con nues to beneﬁt each of us, we maintain a local communi es, go hand in hand. Local con nuous engagement with our customers, listen to their desires, analyse their feedback and communi es play hosts to business and it is address their needs. Some of the key ini a ves undertaken during the repor ng period, to the responsibility of business to integrate in reinforce customer engagement include: the community and enrich it in a meaningful way. We have ins tu onalised mechanisms to engage with the community, share their NEW DIGITAL ENGAGEMENT PLATFORMS aspira ons, work together and con nually Mahindra & Mahindra recently launched two pla orms SyouV and With You Hamesha to open strengthen rela ons. a new channel for direct dialogue with poten al and exis ng customers. These new-age digital pla orms engage with customers in two separate phases'SyouV' is a pre-purchase, one-stop For details please refer to the solu on pla orm for auto-enthusiasts, while 'With You Hamesha' oﬀers a superior vehicle Social Performance sec on of the report service experience for exis ng customers. Suppliers Suppliers play a crucial role in fast-tracking our growth. Hence, we engage with them in various capaci es to inculcate long-standing, symbio c rela onships. To ensure a consistent and comprehensive approach across business units we have ar culated the following policies: Supplier Code of Conduct h ps:// supplier.mahindra.com/Pages/CodeOfConduct.aspx Sustainable Green Supply Chain Management and Procurement Policy h ps://supplier.mahindra.com/Pages/sustainability. aspx Key supplier engagement ini a ves taken up in FY 2017-18 include: SUPPLIER SUSTAINABILITY MEET MYAGRIGURU APP The Igatpuri Plant organised the ﬁ h edi on 'MyAgriGuru' is a mobile app that connects Indian farmers with agricultural experts across the of the 'Supplier Sustainability Meet' at the country and empowers them with a rich database of informa on. This helps farmers make Pentwyn Club. The mee ng revolved around informed decisions throughout their farming process, and thereby increase their agricultural the importance of sustainability as a way of produc vity and income. The peer-to-peer sharing app is open and visible to all users, crea ng a life and in the realm of business speciﬁcally. high degree of trust and transparency. By presen ng the sustainability journey of the Igatpuri plant, speakers urged supplier Within the rst year of its launch, this digital platform partners to embark on similar journeys. has helped connect over 3.8 lakh farmers and experts. The event saw the par cipa on of 32 Suppliers, while 20 of them presented their ini a ves on sustainability. GRI 102-44 21 MAHINDRA & SUSTAINABILITY MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 17-18 SUPPLIERS' MEET The Farm Division SCPC organised a Supplier Meet for Mumbai based suppliers in February at MITC, Kandivali. The event touched upon various topics regarding business, ranging from the Tractor Industry outlook for FY19, priori es for the Mumbai Hub with regard to Suppliers such as 100% recyclable packaging, and a demo of the digi sa on of Zaheerabad plant. Dealers Online Footprint Distributors and Dealers are the face of the company, and vital allies in enabling us to deliver In this digital age, the internet has profoundly true value to customers. They set expecta ons for our products and provide pre and post sales altered the way we do business whether it's service to build brand preference and loyalty. They also act as our ear to the ground and provide through a website, an e-commerce pla orm, us insights on the moods and needs of customers and details of compe ve oﬀerings. a social media page or a combina on of all three. NADA AUTO SHOW 2017, NEPAL At this year's NADA Auto Show, M&M showcased the complete mobility range in partnership Engaging with customers with our distributors in Nepal – from 2 wheelers and personal vehicles to small, medium and and potential customers heavy commercial vehicles, buses and a range of construc on equipment. The showstopper and online is imperative to real crowd puller, however, was the Mahindra Thar Daybreak edi on, showcased for the ﬁrst me in Nepal. building and sustaining healthy relationships and The event garnered over 1,500 enquiries and a li le over 100 bookings across its product categories. brand narrative. SOCIAL MEDIA DASHBOARD facebook 903,666 Likes twi er 1,296,971 followers LinkedIn 157,900 followers GRI 102-44 22 DRIVEN BY OUR PEOPLE The success of an organisa on is directly propor onal to the proper management of Our aim is to make Mahindra one of its people and care for their mo va on and well-being. People being the greatest asset of the 50 most admired global brands by an organisa on, are essen al to its strategic performance. 2021; one that empowers people to We see our people as one of the key drivers of our organisa onal success, shaping our RISE to their dreams and achieve their future with their talent, skills, a ributes and knowledge. They are an essen al building full potential. block in our eﬀorts to create and deliver value for our stakeholders, thus, enabling us to Rise for Good. OUR VISION Our goal is to be one of the top 50 most admired global brands by 2021. To that end, we make conscious eﬀorts to put in place prac ces and policies that nurture talent, foster stronger bonds and raise up future leaders across our businesses. Our twoer HR management approach, one at the Group level and the other at the Business level, enables us to align Business level HR policies with Group level HR goals and undertake bespoke employee engagement ini a ves at all units. 23 MAHINDRA & SUSTAINABILITY MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 17-18 The Mahindra Employee Value Proposition ENABLING TRANSFORMATION ENSURING GROWTH C Challenge A Bring P Drive Posi ve R Recogni on for E Empowering AL Abundant Learning Conven ons Alterna ve Change in the Lives Outperformance Environment Opportuni es Growth at Mahindra Thinking to of Our Customers & Apprecia on is the At Mahindra, we Constant learning is the has been a func on the Workplace Communi es best form of s mulate key to growth and of challenging the Ability to think out of Fostering inclusive mo va on. So, when commitment and development. At norms and ﬁnding the box and see development is at the our employees deliver ownership by Mahindra, we opportuni es in beyond what is heart of everything we their best, we encouraging people con nually provide obstacles. We visible enables do at Mahindra. While recognise and reward to make their own ample learning mo vate our people innova ons and we ensure that our their path-breaking decisions. This opportuni es at every to ques on the helps problem people progress with performances and nurtures a proac ve level across our status quo and see solving. Alterna ve us, we also expect our excep onal working ethos which workforce, to enrich posi ves in the thinking is embedded employees to endeavours. This not enables employees our Human Capital. nega ves. in our DNA and contribute in crea ng only fosters healthy to take charge. catalyses our meaningful impacts in compe on but also breakthroughs. the communi es we ensures a culture of serve. excellence. MANAGEMENT Principle 5 The eﬀec ve aboli on of child and compulsory labour and child labour APPROACH labour within and beyond our walls. Principle 6 The elimina on of discrimina on All forms of corrup on, including bribery or At Mahindra, we do not transform people; in respect of employment and occupa on other nega ve prac ces are prohibited. We they transform themselves as a result of the observe the following UNGC principles on The Mahindra 'Corporate HR Cell' con nually human rights: empowering work culture that we nurture monitors the policy trends, aligns our across all our sectors and units. ini a ves to industry best prac ces, and Our Employee Value Proposi on of CAPable trains our people to adopt the current best People, REAL Experience pursues eﬀec ve prac ce benchmarks. people-centric strategies that accelerate BUSINESSES We have incorporated the following SHOULD SUPPORT & inclusive growth and grant momentum to RESPECT THE Principle 1 Interna onal Labour Organisa on's labour collabora ve success. PROTECTION conven ons into our policies since 2009: O F I N T E R N A T I O N A L LY PROCLAIMED Ÿ Freedom of associa on and the right to HUMAN RIGHTS Labour Practices collec ve bargaining Mahindra does not encourage or tolerate any Ÿ Right to organise and collec ve bargaining kind of discrimina on. We are an equal conven on opportunity employer and are steadfast in conforming to the labour standards and Ÿ Forced labour conven on E N S U R E T H AT ensuring the health and safety of our BUSINES SES workforce. Consequently, all units of the Ÿ Aboli on of forced labour conven on Principle 2 ARE NOT Automo ve Division (AD) have been cer ﬁed Ÿ Minimum age conven on COMPLICIT IN with OHSAS. HUMAN RIGHTS As the ﬁrst Indian company to sign the Ÿ Worst forms of child labour conven on ABUSES United Na ons Global Compact (UNGC) in Ÿ Equal remunera on conven on 2001, we are commi ed to func on in accordance with its principles on labour Ÿ Discrimina on (Employment and standards. Occupa on) conven on Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the BUSINESSES SHOULD WORK freedom of associa on and the eﬀec ve Human Rights recogni on of the right to collec ve AGAINST Principle 10 Viola on of human rights is unacceptable at CORRUPTION bargaining Mahindra. We strictly adhere to our values of IN ALL ITS FORMS, INCLUDING Principle 4 The elimina on of all forms of equality and dignity for all and strongly EXTORTION forced and compulsory labour condemn any act of discrimina on, forced AND BRIBERY GRI 102-41 24 DIVERSITY & Diversity amongst others requires an communicate our philosophy through INCLUSION ecosystem and a framework. Our D&I campaigns and workshops. The Company framework consists of the following: has in place an An -Sexual Harassment Policy in line with the requirements of The Ÿ Leadership Commitment Diversity is gaining prominence primarily Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace because it not only fosters uniqueness but Ÿ Diverse Workforce (Preven on, Prohibi on and Redressal) Act, also engenders diversity of thinking in all 2013. Internal Complaints Commi ee (ICC) facets of life. Ÿ Inclusion Ini a ves has been set up to redress complaints At Mahindra, diversity and inclusion is an Ÿ Achievement & Communica on received regarding sexual harassment. organisa onal eﬀort, cascading it down to All employees (permanent, contractual, Ÿ Evalua on temporary, trainees) are covered under this every unit and department. As part of our goal to be among the top 50 most admired Policy. The Policy is gender neutral. During global brands, we have laid the founda on We collaborated with Avtaar group the year under review, 1 complaint with for inclusion at the deepest level and in its to roll out diversity and inclusion allega ons of sexual harassment was ﬁled, true sense. sensi sa on drive to make all the which was disposed-oﬀ as per the provisions employees and key inﬂuencers aware of The Sexual Harassment of Women at about the importance of diversity and the Workplace (Preven on, Prohibi on and presence of subconscious biases within us Redressal) Act, 2013 and as of 31st March, which impact our decision making. 2018, no complaint was pending. SAFETY GENDER In metro ci es we have e-ups with cab DIVERSITY service providers for women employees who travel or stay late at work. We also provide accommoda on facility which is in premium WOMEN AT WORK and safe hotels or the company's guest houses. We ensure our people When there is greater diversity in the workforce, there is be er innova on, higher The repor ng manager ensures that the know how crucial they produc vity, and be er business. At women have the required support in case are to the organisation's Mahindra we believe, women are major they have to travel to unsafe loca ons, like success, regardless of contributors to decision making at home, and having a male member accompany them or we need to bring the same to organisa ons use technology to connect, rather than facetheir gender, race, to-face mee ngs. as well. religion, ethnicity, or Talent is gender neutral, hence, we need to disabilities, and how create aﬃrma ve plans that provide equal MATERNITY BENEFIT they t into the grand opportuni es and facilitate career growth We believe in providing support through our scheme of things. for all. policies to help our women professionals We encourage the women in our workforce during this important phase of their lives. by providing them with a safe and inclusive Below men oned are the exclusive beneﬁts Policies environment, and opportuni es that leverage provided to women apart from the statutory Our D&I agenda and policies focus on their talent. Given below are some of the maternity beneﬁts. building a workplace with equal opportunity policies and ini a ves taken in this regard. Ÿ Cab travel reimbursement for comfortable for all to develop and grow in a safe and travel to and from the oﬃce during the last harassment free work environment. Policies two months before the expected date of Empowering the people by valuing the delivery. uniqueness they bring to the table is what PREVENTION OF SEXUAL will enable us to Rise for Good together. HARASSMENT AT WORKPLACE Ÿ Women employees can avail partme employment op on for 6 months a er Understanding the signiﬁcance of diversity, The Company views all incidents of sexual their maternity leave. As part of the policy the Mahindra Group formed the Group harassment seriously and follows a zero they can work either minimum 12 days in a Diversity Council in November 2012, under tolerance approach towards any act of sexual month or minimum 27 hours in a week, the chairmanship of Anita Arjundas, harassment. All incidents of sexual and compensa on is on pro rata basis. President Real Estate Sector & Member of harassment are prohibited and any complaint the Group Execu ve Board, Mahindra Group. is inves gated and if proved, appropriate ac on is taken against the oﬀending person. Initiatives When we started our At all the loca ons and oﬃces of the journey, the gender SECOND CAREER INTERNSHIP Company, an Internal Complaints Commi ee & FULL-TIME EMPLOYMENT diversity was 16%. is cons tuted. The cons tu on of the PROGRAMMES Currently we have 26% commi ee is as per the provisions of the Preven on of Sexual Harassment of Women The programme was launched by the women at entry level. at Workplace Act. Company to help relaunch the career of Women at both the mid In case of complaints, we provide a choice women planning to return to work a er and senior leadership to the complainant to have a one-on-one a break. level are 7% each. discussion with an ICC member of their As part of this ini a ve, Only Women Call choice to guide them through the en re Centre was set up in Delhi in 2007 to meet To foster the agenda of diversity, the Group process. the business requirement of Mahindra First Diversity Council formulated the group We have an e-learning module on POSH, Choice Wheels, an a ermarket car business. diversity vision and ins tuted sector diversity which all the employees have to complete What started oﬀ with 2 women, now has councils at every business level. every year as refresher. We also strongly 61 women working at the call centre. 25 MAHINDRA & SUSTAINABILITY MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 17-18 This year, we recruited 24 undergraduates, 10 women who speak regional languages, and 6 contemporary and holis c learning journey, women joining a er their sabba cal. we included the following ac vi es: The team is responsible for interac ng with customers, enhancing brand image, genera ng Ÿ Group coaching to facilitate the group to leads and improving customer sa sfac on. reﬂect and reinvent their approach and aid in team development to bring in synergy. WOMEN ENGINEERS & TECHNICIANS IN MANUFACTURING Ÿ Par cipants iden ﬁed one problem area Breaking the myth that only men can work in core manufacturing due to the use of heavy from their roles and applied the principles machinery, we have hired a number of women on the shop ﬂoor in the automo ve business, of design thinking for problem solving. steel and inter-trade. At a me when women employees working on the shop ﬂoor was not common, we successfully challenged the mindset and currently have more than 100 women Ÿ Sessions focused on science and psychology employees in manufacturing. of risk taking, which were then integrated into live business simula on to demonstrate risk taking in decision making. Ÿ A triangulated report of psychometric assessments Harrison Assessments, Rise 360 Feedback and FIRO Business was created. Ÿ Interac on with leaders from within/outside the Group to imbibe from their stories. The ﬁrst batch of the programme graduated on February 23, 2018 and received their cer ﬁcate from Mr. Anand Mahindra, while the second batch of this annual programme has commenced. WOMEN'S DAY CELEBRATION The women employees of MVML, MHEL, MLL and MTBD (Pune Chapter) came together, to celebrate womanhood. In this ac on packed half day event Ms. Rama Malik, VP-Mahindra Logis cs, explained the peer learning approach for women to The goal is to increase gender diversity ratio to succeed at the workplace. Mr. Shashank 20% in Graduate Engineer Trainee category and Raodeo, Sr. GM-SCM, MVML, appealed to 30% in Graduate Apprentice Trainee Category by the women to dream big and advised them to never sacriﬁce their ambi ons. implementing out-of-the-box strategies and changing A four-hour training session, Muk , was the methodology. conducted for women associates on the The various campus ini a ves undertaken by the Company are aimed at driving the Rise brand shop-ﬂoor, where they were taught about and increasing awareness of opportuni es for women in manufacturing and AFS. A total of ﬁve self-image, mental and physical well-being top women's colleges were included in the programme and an informa ve sensi sa on through various exercises. communica on outlay was conducted to a ract the right talent ﬁt. The specialisa on band was The event also saw the launch of MWOWincreased and few other branches apart from mechanical were added. Mahindra World of Women, a peer networking pla orm. Close to 100 women were hired and placed across AFS in the year 2017 through this programme. At SD, we currently have 69 women employees working in core tractor manufacturing, which is a 65% increase in FY 2017-18. This ini a ve of the Swaraj Division of changing paradigm on the shop ﬂoor was recognised by the leading English daily newspaper Tribune, on the occasion of Women's Day. WOMEN LEADERS PROGRAMME A study of 42 companies by Catalyst in India revealed that a gender gap exists at all levels of the pipeline for women, and widens as women move towards senior management/CEO roles, indica ng a disconnect between current strategies and women's inclusion. The same held true for Mahindra Group. Hence, we launched the Women Leaders Programme to plug in the gaps. SP Jain Ins tute of Management & Research, Mumbai, one of India's leading business schools, with a focus on women's career management, partnered with Mahindra Leadership University to design and execute the programme. In our endeavour to make the programme a 26 TRAINING & DEVELOPMENT Robust training and development programmes help organisa ons in retaining the right talent by honing their speciﬁc skills and focusing on their growth and future performance. At Mahindra our programmes are adept at nurturing every employee, across all hierarchies. With our high impact training and expansive development programmes we aim to engage and develop the organisa on's talent right from the me they are onboarded, con nuing through the en re employee life-cycle. Doing so helps increase employee mo va on, improve their competency and produc vity and create deeper talent succession pipelines. Our ini a ves are based on the 3E Framework Educa on, Exposure and Experience. Given below are the ini a ves and programmes undertaken in the repor ng period. INTRODUCTION TO ISO27001:2013 STANDARD FOR INFORMATION SECURITY MANAGEMENT A new ini a ve has been taken up in the history of Op-Suraksha Informa on Security in co-ordina on with Mahindra Leadership University (MLU). Training sessions are conducted on ISO27001:2013 Informa on Security Management Standard, and successful par cipants are awarded cer ﬁcate from MLU. ISO27001:2013 speciﬁes requirements for establishing, implemen ng, maintaining and con nually improving an informa on security management system for any organisa on, Five batches have been conducted so far of 8 hours each. 81 par cipants a ended the regardless of type or size. training programme at two loca ons, three in MITC Kandivali and two in MRV Chennai. INTERNET OF THINGS PROGRAMME MIQ in collabora on with MLU IT Academy conducted an Internet of Things programme where the guest speaker, Virendra Chaudhari from Microso , gave an insigh ul talk on IoT applica ons and trends. With IoT becoming a topic of increasing importance inside and outside the workplace, this workshop aims to provide insights that will impact various func ons like manufacturing, quality, maintenance, procurement, product development, etc. This will help facilitate understanding of Kunal Pachnanda (Director Value Engineering) and Ayush Jha (Advanced Analy csSME) from related concepts, enabling par cipants to Bristlecone. Bishwanath Ghosh, CIO Corporate and Chairman of the IT Academy spoke about work on a roadmap to be future ready. the growing importance of IoT within Mahindra Group. Other eminent faculty for this programme were Vasudev Nayak (IoT prac ce Lead), 23 par cipants from AD, FD, SD, MRV, and Mahindra Partners a ended the programme. EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT For us, at Mahindra, our job does not end with a rac ng the right talent. It is also crucial for the organisa on's success that employees are given opportuni es to maximise their talent and know the role they play in our growth. Hence, we formulate strategies and create opportuni es focussed on increasing employee engagement that enhance their performance and produc vity, which directly impacts the Group's growth and success. When employees are engaged on physical, emo onal and cogni ve levels, they invest signiﬁcantly in achieving posi ve outcomes for themselves and the organisa on. 27 MAHINDRA & SUSTAINABILITY MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 17-18 Given below is a snapshot of the various engagement ac vi es conducted during the repor ng year. EMPLOYEE ADVOCACY As we con nue to leverage the power of WORK-LIFE BALANCE PROGRAMME social media in raising awareness about our We believe the performance of our brand and enhance employee engagement, Brand advocacy helps in crea ng the right employees within the organisa on is aﬀected we aim to achieve the following targets: bond with our various stakeholders along not just by the internal factors but also the with ac vely sharing our organisa on's Ÿ One billion impressions by 2022 external factors. One of the major external culture, products and services. Advocacy also factors that impact their performance helps in building rela onships in the digital Ÿ 10,000 M-Advocates expected to posi vely or nega vely is their personal world and creates a sense of pride and become ambassadors of Brand responsibili es. belonging within our employees. Mahindra by 2025 or earlier When employees are able to strike a healthy The number of social media users is expected balance between their personal and to increase to 3.02 billion by 2021. As a professional commitments, it gives them a business with presence in most con nents, sense of calm and enables them to we have realised the poten al of social concentrate fully on their workplace media in spreading the philosophy of RISE in commitments. To this end, we have India and globally. undertaken ac vi es and ini ated policies To leverage this poten al, we have created that mo vate our employees and lead to M-Advocates, who are passionate employees enhanced produc vity. across the Group. The M-Advocates share content related to Mahindra on their LEAVE POLICY personal social media proﬁles, thus, crea ng a mul plier eﬀect in taking forward the We have a ﬂexime policy, wherein brand's philosophy. employees have the ﬂexibility of an hour and 15 minutes to regular oﬃce mings. This is a much appreciated policy and helps in This initiative has been managing their personal priori es. active for 15 months We also provide 44 days of leave which with 400 M-Advocates include paid leave, exigency leave and who have been able to mandatory leave. garner over 22 million We oﬀer 3 days of work-from-home facility in impressions on social a month for women with children below three years and 2 days for women with media, over 400,000 children between 3 to 18 years of age. engagements and have This policy is also applicable to men, created 1,500 pieces of 3 months prior and 3 months post the birth content showcasing of a child. various aspects of Mahindra. WORKFORCE SNAPSHOT Total Employee by Type in nos. SENIOR MIDDLE JUNIOR FTC THIRD PARTY DIVISION MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT WORKMEN EMPLOYEE CONTRACT OTHERS TOTAL AUTO 117 1,233 1,538 5,824 918 5,089 2,356 17,075 FARM 155 529 662 2,431 124 1,979 2,909 8,789 SWARAJ 21 358 510 1,379 599 1,750 252 4,869 28 Total Employee Female & Male in nos. SENIOR MIDDLE JUNIOR FTC THIRD PARTY MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT WORKMEN EMPLOYEE CONTRACT OTHERS TOTAL AUTO DIVISION 6 80 133 7 7 62 37 332 FARM DIVISION 4 32 46 2 4 30 75 193 SWARAJ DIVISION 0 7 22 32 9 5 39 114 AUTO DIVISION 111 1,153 1,405 5,817 911 5,027 2,319 16,743 FARM DIVISION 151 497 616 2,429 120 1,949 2,834 8,596 SWARAJ DIVISION 21 351 488 1,347 599 1,750 252 4,808 New Hires Joining in nos. New Hires Leaving in nos. AUTO FARM & SWARAJ AUTO FARM & SWARAJ AGE DIVISION DIVISION AGE DIVISION DIVISION <30 97 1,811 | 132 <30 1 253 | 23 30-50 24 7 | 32 30-50 2 133 | 5 >50 5 0 | 1 >50 3 0 | 0 Average Training Hours in hours SENIOR MIDDLE JUNIOR FTC THIRD PARTY DIVISION MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT WORKMEN EMPLOYEE CONTRACT OTHERS MALE 4.6 17.1 30.2 1.1 0.003 1.3 4.6 AUTO FEMALE 8.2 5.2 19.3 2.3 0.0 0.0 2.6 TOTAL 12.8 22.3 49.5 3.4 0.003 1.3 7.1 MALE 3.61 15.19 32.45 0.05 0.19 0.01 0.05 FARM FEMALE 0.02 5.10 12.36 0.00 0.02 0.00 0.35 TOTAL 3.63 20.29 44.81 0.05 0.21 0.01 0.40 MALE 0.86 2.86 3.87 1.45 SWARAJ FEMALE 0.00 2.00 3.59 1.14 TOTAL 0.86 4.86 7.46 2.59 SAFETY Permanent Employees in nos. DASHBOARD LOST TIME INJURY RATE LOST DAY RATE SECTOR FATALITY MALE FEMALE TOTAL MALE FEMALE TOTAL There were FD + SD 0.09 0 0.09 0.04 0 0.04 0 ZERO Contract + Other Employees in nos. reportable accidents FD + SD 0.34 0 0.34 1.69 0 1.69 0 at AD. 29 MAHINDRA & SUSTAINABILITY MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 17-18 PRODUCT PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT APPROACH 'Make in India' has been our credo since long and in line with the nation's A company is known by the products it keeps. Quality products help maintain customer sa sfac on and loyalty, build trust and repeat requirement, we are committed to purchase. At Mahindra, we look at product responsibility across the stakeholder spectrum enhancing our efforts further. With and not just the customer. It is our endeavour to ensure that our Futurise, we are upping the ante on products not only deliver great economic value but also deliver on societal and technology and innovation to compete environmental needs. For example, our products comply with emission norms as with the best in the world. prescribed by the government and we consistently keep adding technologies and There are many 'Indias' in one India. When the language changes every 10 kilometres and environment-friendly features which go mul ple cultures coexist, customer segmenta on is tough. The most striking diﬀeren a on beyond the demands of laws. that can be done is rural and urban. Economically, the villagers are more agri-based, while the We also invest in communica on to educate ci es are more focused on manufacture and service industry. Both are diﬀerent like chalk and the customer on the beneﬁts of these cheese but need each other to sustain. On one count though, they are similar they both features and along with crea ng product require products for mobility and convenience. preference, mo vate them to par cipate in the larger good by inves ng in these products. Our transforma on into a global innova on powerhouse is rooted in three guiding principles: Do more Do it Do it with less together for all 30 In FY18 ENVIRONMENTAL Life Cycle Assessment IMPACTS Approach 5,48,508 vehicles and At Mahindra, environmental challenges are seen as an opportunity to upgrade our Improving the performance and durability of a vehicle is important, but equally important if not more, is reducing the environmental product and be the ﬁrst in class and stay footprint. The approach has to be consistent 3,17,531 tractors were ahead of the compe on. Spearheading Sustainable Mobility and cohesive across each stage of the product's lifecycle, viz.: DESIGN & PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT manufactured and sold Our name is synonymous with u lity vehicles RAW MATERIAL EXTRACTION & from our 15 facilities in India. In 1947, we introduced u lity vehicles INTERMEDIATE PROCESS to India and since then, have pioneered a PRODUCTION ASSEMBLY & LOGISTICS range of mobility products and solu ons. It NEW includes SUVs, electric vehicles, pickups, CONSUMPTION & UTILISATION TECHNOLOGIES commercial vehicles, tractors and farm equipment, which are tough, rugged, reliable, DISPOSAL & ELV environment-friendly and fuel-eﬃcient. Electrical & Electronics Comfort The rigorous 5C test is the tes mony of our Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) is a tool that & Convenience Technologies vision for the future of mobility, and each compiles the comprehensive data of relevant Ÿ Steering Wheel Controls Cruise & Audio product, exis ng or new, must pass through it: material and energy inputs, and poten al eﬀects to make an informed decision C Ÿ Sta c Bending Lamp regarding the best solu on w.r.t. products and Ÿ Logo Projec on Lamp CLEAN their environmental impacts. Below are the Ÿ Tyre Pressure Monitoring System -TPMS details of LCAs undertaken during the CONVENIENT Ÿ Light Sensing Headlamps repor ng period: CONNECTED Ÿ IntelliParkwith Dynamic Guide CLEVER Ÿ Rain-Sensing Wipers COST-EFFECTIVE Life Cycle Descrip on Assessment of Assessment Electrical & Electronics Approach Approach Infotainment Technologies Ÿ DVD/USB/iPod/BT Music Full LCAs We commissioned and Ÿ Power Up Anima on • Make Calls… completed full LCA of UV pickup model BMT. We Ÿ Vehicle Alerts • DVD/USB Video have further taken steps to Ÿ Reverse Park • Vehicle Info reduce the impacts based Ÿ Voice Recogni on • Tyre Pressure on the study results, using weight reduc on poten al Connected Vehicle Technology and its associated beneﬁts Under our 'Sustainable Mobility Solu on' for the load carrier. Ÿ Connected Apps • Ecosense ini a ve, we are focusing on the following Ÿ Emergency Call • Android Auto features in our product development journey. Ÿ Apple Carplay • Smart Watch Controls Simpliﬁed Simpliﬁed LCA was done Ÿ Digisense Improve Reduc on LCAs in the form of compliance Fuel of Engine with ELV direc ve for Eﬃciency Emission Green Technologies European M1 & N1 products. The vehicles Ÿ Hybrid Electric Propulsion Alternate were exported and Ÿ Micro-Hybrid Start/Stop & Renewable Recyclable cer ﬁed as per EEC Ÿ IntelliHybrid Fuels Material direc ve 2005/64/EC. Ÿ Hydrogen Propulsion (Leader in India) It includes the umbrella brand Mahindra Tractor Technologies Other Simpliﬁed LCA was done Electric rebranded from Mahindra's electric externally in the form of compliance Ÿ Stylish SMC Hood and Lamps mobility por olio under which we recognised with ELV direc ve for Ÿ Tilt Steering for be er ergonomics and manufacture electric cars, license out our tools European M1 & N1 comfort electric vehicle technologies, electrify our new (e.g. material products. The vehicles and exis ng pla orms, and help deliver ﬂow accoun ng, Ÿ PST & Wet PTO for fa gue-free opera on ecological were exported and integrated zero-emissions mobility solu ons. Ÿ CRDe for drivability and fuel economy footprin ng, cer ﬁed as per EEC We are building a network of global facili es MIPS) direc ve 2005/64/EC. Ÿ Futuris c Cabin for MUSA for comfort including R&D to put the power of sustainable and protec on mobility into the hands of more and more Ÿ DiGiSENSE for geo-fencing, live tracking people, and our engineers in India, the US, of data South Korea and Italy, are working to turn Ÿ Creeper these mobility solu ons into reality. 31 MAHINDRA & SUSTAINABILITY MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 17-18 New Developments AUTO DIVISION JEETO MINIVAN We launched the Jeeto Minivan, a stylish and comfortable passenger carrier developed on the successful Jeeto pla orm. The Jeeto Minivan is best suited for urban and semi-urban modes of transporta on and will cater to last mile connec vity, contract and stage carriage use for tour/ travel purposes and intra-city people movement redeﬁning Last Mile Transporta on. E-ALFA MINI ELECTRIC RICKSHAW We are one of the pioneers of electric vehicle technology in India and our current range of products in this segment include the e2oPlus, the eVerito and the eSupro. Joining this list is e-Alfa Mini, expanding Mahindra's range of electric vehicles in the country that can reach out to an en re spectrum of consumers across segments in both people and goods movement. Introduced in September 2017, with a driver+4 sea ng capacity, charging the e-Alfa Mini is as simple as charging a mobile phone. On a full charge, the Mahindra e-Alfa Mini can travel for up to 85 km in standard condi ons and can achieve a top speed of 25 kmph. It is a complete 3-wheeler with zero emission, speciﬁcally designed for pollu on-free last mile connec vity. DISTINCTIVE LOOKS SPECIFICALLY DESIGNED FOR SUPERIOR COMFORT The e-Alfa Mini sports a dis nc ve and INDIAN CONDITIONS The e-Alfa Mini boasts of a large cabin contemporary exterior with a dual headlamp Speciﬁcally designed for Indian consumers space with ample passenger space, for be er visibility. It has an overall robust and road condi ons, the e-Alfa Mini has headroom, legroom and shoulder room build, a compact superstructure with a stylish been tested extensively over 1 lakh km in as compared to its compe tors in the canopy, an a rac ve car-like instrument real road condi ons. It is also an all-season segment. This allows easy ingress. It has panel, black dashboard and mudguard, and vehicle with a waterproof canopy. comfortable driver and passenger seats black and red dual tone interiors. as well, ensuring ul mate comfort. MAHINDRA TRUST MAHINDRA'S TOUGH The e-Alfa Mini comes with the AND RUGGED DNA larger Mahindra Trust which It sports the tough and rugged guarantees ul mate peace of Mahindra DNA, making it suitable for mind for customers. To add to all types of terrain. With a strong this, it is aptly supported by suspension, a robust body and best-inMahindra's widespread sales and class chassis, the e-Alfa Mini is a winner service network that facilitates all the way with be er strength and easy repair and service. load carrying capacity. It also boasts of a superior ride and handling experience as compared to the compe on. As the pioneer of electric vehicles and integrated mobility solu ons in India, it has always been our endeavour to make electric vehicles more accessible and best suited for Indian condi ons. MILEAGE & POWER OTHER KEY FEATURES The launch of the e-Alfa Mini is yet 120 mAh Ba ery with a mileage Ÿ Best-in-class product performance of 85 km per charge in standard for higher earn-ability another step to provide an emissioncondi ons, and a powerful Ÿ 60-minutes fast service guarantee free, green mode of safe intracity motor and controller; making it transporta on in the country. At Ÿ Low down payment and a rac ve EMI a be er proposi on compared to compe tors. Ÿ Best-in-class 2 years vehicle warranty Mahindra, we are aligned to the Ÿ Industry ﬁrst one free ba ery replacement* Government's vision to become a *Available with select ﬁnance op ons 100% EV na on by 2030. True to the spirit of 'Make-in-India', we shall be at the forefront to lead this change along with the Government. Rajan Wadhera President Automo ve Sector, Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. 32 New Developments FARM DIVISION FIRST-EVER DRIVERLESS TRACTOR IN INDIA Developed at Mahindra Research Valley in Chennai, the Driverless Tractor technology is set to take farm mechanisa on to new heights. With this launch, Mahindra becomes the pioneer in the Indian tractor industry with the unique proposi on of a driverless tractor. This innova on will change the future of farming by increasing produc vity, leading to increased food produc on to feed the growing needs of the world. TRAKSTAR MAHINDRA CROP CARE TROMPH INDIA'S 1ST AUTOMATED We launched a new brand Trakstar (its third The Crop Care Division of Mahindra Agri OIL DISPENSER MACHINE tractor brand a er Mahindra and Swaraj) Solu ons Ltd. introduced 'Tromph', a NuPro PureAll, an automated oil dispenser from our subsidiary Gromax (erstwhile systemic insec cide for the control of BPH machine, is Mahindra Agri Solu ons Ltd.'s inMahindra Gujarat Tractors). The idea is to (Brown Planthopper) of Rice. The launch of house innova on. make the mechanisa on aﬀordable to more Tromph marks the beginning of a new era for farmers by pricing it 5-10% lower than the MASL's crop care business as it combines Oﬀering the 'Promise of Purity', the machine industry average. It will focus on value Japanese technology and Mahindra's trusted addresses the perils of adultera on in the seeking farmers and enable them to enhance brand name. commodity purchase of edible oil. Currently, their prosperity. there are about 14 PureAll machines opera onal in West Bengal. The new brand has been launched in ﬁve states through approximately 100 dealers. Introduced in the 30-50 hp category, Trakstar is suitable for farming and supplementary use, and would further enhance Mahindra's MRV Mahindra World bouquet of products catering to diﬀerent categories further boos ng our increasing City Biogas Project market share. We have always used Alterna ve Thinking to create sustainable solu ons. In one such eﬀort at MRV, we are using segregated food waste of 10 tons/day, provided by MWC to generate 400 kg of CNG grade fuel produced daily, which The launch witnessed the presence of 250 can propel our tourist buses to 2800 dealers, distributors and farmers in Punjab & km/day. Haryana, and approximately 400 dealers, Along with that, we also generate 4 tons distributors and farmers in Andhra Pradesh. of organic manure daily. Two such commercial projects are under implementa on. MASL INTRODUCES HYBRID SEEDS Mahindra Agri Solu ons Ltd. launched an integrated marke ng campaign to introduce the indigenous R&D product the MM 2030 corn hybrid seed in Bihar and Telangana. SWARAJ 963 FE The oﬀering is an advanced product from the Swaraj enters 60 hp segment with the launch Mahindra Gene c Research Centre. It has of Swaraj 963 FE. Having 2,200 kg Sensili received an overwhelming response from Hydraulics, it has precision even with heavy farmers in the maize belts of India. implements. With Synchromesh Transmission, it has a wide speed range (0.5 to 32 kmph) and easy of shi ing gears. The IPTO (Independent Power Transmission Operator) Clutch ensures driver comfort during PTO(Power Take-oﬀ) applica ons. 33 MAHINDRA & SUSTAINABILITY MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 17-18 ENABLING INFRASTRUCTURE The infrastructure at Mahindra enables a stream of products that can be broadly classiﬁed into mobility vehicles (passenger as well as commercial) and farm equipment. Every product in both these categories, not only takes care of the comfort, safety, aﬀordability and quality aspects, but also keep sustainability at its core. This results in a growth which is holis c covering economic, environmental and social responsibility. We invest in creating facilities with cutting-edge equipment that can produce, adapt and innovate, as per the needs of the market. With a range of products that cater to all sections of the society, we continue to innovate with a rm commitment to: EXPLORE ENABLE PROMOTE alterna ve fuel farm-tech sustainable economies technologies prosperity and farming prac ces Centralised Virtual Reality Lab INDUSTRY 4.0 The Advanced Engineering team ADPD inaugurated MRV's very ﬁrst Virtual Reality Lab. Started in September 2017, it would facilitate ergonomics evalua on through virtual environments, As the manufacturing industry prepares thereby helping engineers understand 'what customer feels' in the real-world condi ons. itself to take on the challenges of an increasingly digital world, next-gen technologies and the Industry 4.0 framework (I4.0) ﬁnd themselves at the forefront. At Mahindra, we are making rapid strides in this new world and are amongst the ﬁrst to adopt I4.0 in the manufacturing cadence. Industry 4.0 refers to the current trend of automa on and data exchange in the manufacturing environment. Leveraging the 'Industrial Internet of Things' It is the rst of its kind in the country for assessing (Industrial IoT), it focusses on the increasing use of informa on by occupant packaging, ergonomics, assembly and machines to execute complex, hazardous service parameters of the vehicle in a complete tasks and comprises devices that are instrumented, interconnected, inclusive immersive environment as seen in major global OEMs. and intelligent. It includes cyber-physical systems, edge analy cs, cloud compu ng and cogni ve compu ng. Our journey into I4.0 is based on establishing key enablers for a framework which will aid the automa on and integra on of shop-ﬂoor processes and machines. Modernisa on of controllers with internet protocols will enable some of them to be available remotely for visualisa on and op misa on through cu ng-edge analy cs. At Mahindra, we are working towards making our systems more transparent and interoperable, backed by analy cs, to make these I4.0 tools into instruments for compe ve advantage. This will enable us to not only an cipate but also deal with the disrup ve technologies that will It is a holis c and accurate evalua on approach to vehicle packaging, including major and characterise the future of the automo ve minor system inputs. One of the biggest advantages of this lab is the elimina on of the need industry in India. for the sta c wooden buck thus also furthering Mahindra's sustainability agenda. The lab would be a Centralised Virtual Reality Facility in MRV, catering to other Mahindra sectors and other group companies. 34 H E A LT H A N D SAFETY IMPACTS The luxury and other features of a vehicle are relevant only if the health and safety of the occupant can be ensured. Being one of the leaders in the automo ve industry, we recognise that safety is paramount and takes every step possible to safeguard the safety and health of our customers. We ensure that we test our vehicles at every stage of the development design, prototype and a er delivery. At the design stage itself, we integrate EHS In terms of safety (Environment, Health and Safety) factors in BEING FUTURE READY the product. These include the safest cabin, technologies, we are mee ng ECE-29 Interna onal safety standard pioneers in the market Provisions for End-of-Life Vehicles (Regula on concerning the approval of with many rst in India Increasing usage of vehicles has increased vehicles with regard to the protec on of its the waste generated due to the disposal occupants). The seat and steering are also launches including: of the older vehicle a er its life, which ergonomically designed to take the best care hampers the environment. In a year, an of the driving persons' body. average of 8-9 million ton of automo ve The design is followed by the prototype waste is generated world-wide which is undergoing various demanding tests in all to be handled properly. sorts of condi ons. These include the 'Crash As a responsible organisa on, we are & Passive safety' in collabora on with global commi ed to minimise this eﬀect by technology partners Applus+ IDIADA and taking eﬀec ve steps regarding the End'Ride & Handling performance' in partnership of-Life Vehicles (ELVs). This ensures that with interna onal vehicle dynamics partner harmful substances to the environment Cayman Dynamics. are not released and the vehicles are Any lacunae are corrected before the stored, treated and disposed of properly. approval for the ﬁnal product is given. XUV with 6 Airbags The ELV direc ve is aimed at: Periodic tes ng and customer feedback are the follow-up mechanisms to gauge and Ÿ Preven on of certain heavy metals manage health and safety features in our Ÿ De-pollu on of ﬂuids products. We have dedicated lab facility as ESP Electronic Stability well as test track at MRV for carrying out the Program (ESP) Ÿ Polymeric parts marking health and safety tests. Some of the safety Ÿ Achieving reuse, recycle & aspects include: recovery targets Auto Division Hill Hold / Descent Control Ÿ Dismantling manual Ÿ Regula on regarding emission, noise and safety guided by the Central Motor Vehicle Its scope includes: Rules (CMVR) in the Indian market are ABS ABS with Ÿ M1 and N1 category of vehicles EBD Standard adhered by all our vehicles Ÿ Regula on applies to vehicle including Ÿ We also comply with other safety all their components and materials requirements like crash, seat belt ISOFIX Child Seat Ÿ Regula on applies irrespec ve of anchorage, head impact, steering impact on KUV 1OO how the vehicle has been serviced and pendulum impact as required under or repaired CMVR High Strength None of our major models have any Ÿ Our vehicles are currently mee ng BS-IV Steel hazardous materials like Lead, Cadmium, emission norms pan India Mercury, etc. Also, dismantling manuals Ÿ We have cer ﬁed the current European have been developed for the ﬁrst me for Emission norms of EuroV, VI with OnChassis with Mahindra vehicles. We have ins tuted Board diagnos c (OBD) system on all our Hydroform Features special processes to ensure compliance export models of Scorpio SC/DC, Scorpio to EEC direc ve 2005/64/EC for ELV SUV and XUV 5OO (AWD, TWD), Quanto, regula on. For European exports, in line Genio and Xylo. We have also cer ﬁed with the EC direc ve on Recycle, Dual our Scorpio SUV for L6 emission norms Recovery & Reuse (RRR), here are the x2 Airbags recyclability rates of some of our bestfor Brazil. selling passenger vehicles: Ÿ OBD II is implemented in all domes c models Seat Belt QUANTO 95.1% Pretensioner Ÿ All the export vehicles are complying with GENIO 96.5% applicable OECD & country-speciﬁc regula ons including those for noise and Front Crash SCORPIO 94.5% safety. 50% of our vehicles meant for Sensors export market are designed in accordance with European, Australian, South African SCORPIO PICK UP 95.3% & South American motor vehicle safety Electrical & Electronics standards and regula ons like front, Security Technologies XUV 5OO 93.9% oﬀset, side and rear impact with dummy injury criteria. 35 MAHINDRA & SUSTAINABILITY MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 17-18 Farm Division MAHINDRA EPC We strive to provide solu ons to farmers in modern scien ﬁc We share the same concern for the farmers MOBILITY SOLUTIONS water management through customised who use our products, as we do for the WITH NEMO PLATFORM micro-irriga on systems and agronomical occupants of our auto division vehicles. All support in order to achieve superior product products are designed, tested and developed We recently launched NEMO, an equality and higher crop yields for the safety and comfort of the farmers mobility pla orm based on the cloud that enables a new genera on of More than 7000 inputs electric, connected and shared mobility services. went into developing NEMO, which stands for 'Next-Gen YUVO which was then Mobility', is designed for the future and put through 140,000 allows seamless connec on between hours of lab and eld people and the transporta on system. testing across 12 states The pla orm uses 'Connected Vehicle' covering relevant and 'Internet of Things' technologies to provide realme visibility into vehicles applications. (tradi onal vehicle ownership) or ﬂeet (shared mobility) opera ons and enables data-driven decision making. COMPLIANCE Change is the only constant in the everevolving world. The Governments across the world keep pace with it by modifying the regula ons accordingly. We as a company, always push the envelope to set standards higher than the regulatory framework. Robust systems are in place across the organisa on to ensure compliance with the law of the land relevant to the products and SOCIAL services. The last ﬁnancial year was no diﬀerent and we con nued to comply with all IMPACTS applicable statutes and no non-compliance incidences related to product or service were We at Mahindra, feel that we can drive a reported. posi ve change in the lives of all our stakeholders. Whether it is serving the As shown below, we also liaise with the mobility needs of the urban customer, the Government to build an enabling mechanisa on needs of the rural one, taking environment: care of the dreams and passions of our Ÿ We represent Govt. ins tu ons, people, helping to build the communi es we are a part of, adhering to the laws of the commi ees and agencies on Environmental land, or nurturing the planet, we use Building Programme technology and innova on to catalyse that Ÿ We provide technical input on Automo ve change and make people Rise for good. Industry to the various Govt. forums which decide the Environmental Building Ini a ves. Eﬀec ve beneﬁt is obtained by Auto Division Farm Division using our exper se Ÿ We are focussing on increasing the fuelTRRINGO It is a unique, ﬁrst-of-its-kind Ÿ We strive to project Vehicle OEM eﬃciency of our vehicles, both in the physical digital model which allows farmers perspec ve to these forums to arrive an passenger segment as well as commercial, to rent tractors and other mechanised farm op mal solu on to implement eﬀec ve and introducing best-in-class mileage equipment for comple ng their farming environmental programmes and at the products across categories. This directly requirements, without actually having to same me ensure the best interest of our aﬀects the social reach of the customer, invest in a tractor business whether he is using the vehicle for business or personal use. MAHINDRA APPLITRAC Agri-mechanisa on Ÿ We liaise with SIAM (Society of Indian products that make the work of the farmers Automo ve Manufacturers) to represent all Ÿ The world is moving towards a less-carbon less strenuous and more produc ve Govt. commi ees and forums to express economy. There is a strategic emphasis on OEM views on framing environmentelectric vehicles, that is the technology for SAMRIDDHI It is a comprehensive set of related policies, regula ons and the future. With the launch of e2O, eVerito services that play a pivotal role in programmes and a host of products in the pipeline, we strengthening the farmers capability are moving towards crea ng a range of including market linkages, distribu on, agriŸ SCOE (Standing Commi ee of Emission) product in all categories. support informa on ranging from waterunder MORTH (Ministry of Road Transport management to crop solu ons, and & Highway) which sets the policy of vehicle We are planning to invest INR 9 billion in emission in India EV technology over the next ﬁve years, counselling excluding vehicle level spending. 36 Ÿ Member of the commi ee working with MARKETING & BEE (Bureau of Energy Eﬃciency) & COMMUNICATIONS MORTH to formulate future fuel eﬃciency norms for India We don't build products and services to sell. We build them to sa sfy the needs, wants and Ÿ BIS (Bureau of Indian Standards) which aspira ons of our customers. We con nue to expand our product por olio depending on the formulates all the standards for fuels, emerging demands of our customers. These evolving requirements are available to us from the vehicle parts, etc. Keep OEM's technical feedback generated and me culously compiled in our database through a comprehensive interest & requirement in formula ng system in place for doing that. We also communicate with our customers regarding the ac ons standards we are taking based on their feedback and other relevant informa on. We take care that our communica on is not only consistent but eﬀec ve. For that our Ÿ Member of the expert commi ee of communica on is: Alternate Fuel Program & Electric Vehicle Ÿ transparent, fair and mely under MNRE (Ministry of New & Renewable Energy) to formulate a Ÿ in step with the marke ng plans and vice-versa recommenda on to the Planning Ÿ in full compliance with all the statutory laws and standards related to marke ng Commission to formulate the 12th ﬁvecommunica on, adver sing, promo on and sponsorship year plan Our communica on is geared to reach the maximum audience so that they understand the Ÿ Member of commi ees which formulates beneﬁts and impacts of our products and services. Mul ple communica on channels including technical recommenda on to Govt. to tradi onal media like television and print as well as social media like Facebook and Twi er are decide na onal policies like Biofuel Policy, used to display and promote our products and build brand awareness. Hydrogen Policy, Auto Emission Policy, etc. All our campaigns on these media adhere to the code of conduct deﬁned by the Adver sing Standards Council of India. Health & Safety Regulations Health and Safety holds the highest precedence for us. All our products and services are designed as per regula ons and guidelines pertaining to health and safety. We con nue to achieve 100% compliance on that front. Product & Service Information Per nent informa on regarding the product and services help the customer use the product be er, increasing its life and value. Our product brochures and other branding collaterals enumerate the op mum usage methodology, poten al risks and the means Our Online Presence to avoid them. Our communica on is focussed on customer centricity, informa on security, and delivery of high quality and mely informa on. Mahindra Xylo, Mahindra Scorpio, Regulatory and mandatory requirements Mahindra Bolero, Mahindra XUV5OO, pertaining to labelling, brand promo ons, Mahindra Quanto, Mahindra Thar, sponsorships and adver sing are well Mahindra KUV1OO, Mahindra KUV3OO, adhered to as we provide accurate and Mahindra Verito, Mahindra Imperio relevant informa on to our consumers. Mahindra Rise, Auto Division, Mahindra Electric, Mahindra KUV1OO, Mahindra KUV3OO, Mahindra Verito Our extensive presence on social media We regularly update our corporate stems from the top with Mr. Anand Mahindra, (www.mahindra.com) company website in the Chairman of Mahindra Group sharing his order to make it more engaging, endearing views as well as organisa on's news on and user-friendly. Twi er regularly. 37 MAHINDRA & SUSTAINABILITY MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 17-18 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Economic progress is the bedrock of inclusive progress. At Mahindra, we have always The Mahindra Group crossed believed in crea ng substan al value for shareholders through a judicious INR 2 trillion in market capitalisation combina on of expansion, produc vity improvement and strategic partnerships, during the year. This is a testimony to resul ng in considerable growth. This growth has enabled us to create value for all our its commitment to the Rise of all its stakeholders in an environmentally responsible and socially inclusive manner. stakeholders. The year under review In FY 2017-18, improvement in overall economic sen ment, two consecu ve years of This year the combined sales of vehicles normal monsoon, Government's focus on development of rural parts of the country, and tractors crossed the 1 million mark. and the con nued investment on the agriculture and infrastructure sectors, coupled with easy availability of aﬀordable ﬁnance helped drive the demand for the automo ve as well as the tractor industry. The Automo ve and Farm sectors, along with their subsidiaries, associate companies and joint ventures, crossed global sales of 1 million vehicles and tractors (520,286 vehicles and 302,082 tractors), a growth of 10.8% in Automo ve and 21.5% in Farm Equipment sector over the previous year. 38 In the domes c market, we con nued to be the RD largest passenger 2 ND largest commercial LARGEST 3 vehicle company vehicle company small commercial vehicle company Mahindra & Mahindra + HIGHLIGHTS FY 18 MVML recorded an We aim to be among the top 50 most admired Groups in the world by 2021, and we will do this increase of 15% in net by helping people everywhere, to Rise. This year, Mahindra was placed eighth on the pres gious sales and operating Interbrand Best Indian Brands study 2017. Some of the other highlights of this year include: income at INR 475.77 Growth in EPS (basic) Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. acquired billion in the year under review as against 19.4% to INR 36.64 in FY 18 (M&M Ltd.) Erkunt Traktor Sanayii A.S. (Erkunt), the 4th largest tractor brand in Turkey. This INR 413.78 billion in associa on with Erkunt, on the back of the previous year. the Hisarlar acquisi on earlier in the year, Surge in PAT before EI will help in growing Mahindra's farm In the auto segment, we were ranked #1 in J.D. Power India Sales Sa sfac on Index 23.4% and 15% increase in our top line equipment business in the strategic market of Turkey (Mass Market) StudySM, for the year 2017. Mahindra sets up its ﬁrst assembly plant Scores in the J.D. Power India Customer ROCE in Bangladesh by forging a strategic SM Service Index (Mass Market) Study have improved from 798 in the year 2012 to 871 19.6% up 270 bps collabora on with Rangs Motors Ltd. in the year 2017. Some of the products that In the farm sector, our market share Dividend (proposed) stood out this year (including Gromax) for the ﬁnancial year stood at 42.9%. This is the highest ever market share for us and we maintained the INR 7.5 per share AUTO DIVISION leadership posi on of the domes c tractor E-ALFA MINI ELECTRIC RICKSHAW market for the 35th consecu ve year. Increase in market capitalisation A complete three-wheeler, speciﬁcally In allied businesses, we con nued our leadership posi on for the 11th year in the 115 times over the past two decades designed for pollu on-free last mile connec vity was introduced, boas ng the power back-up solu ons under the Mahindra tough and rugged Mahindra DNA Powerol brand. Mahindra Earthmaster brand also did well by selling 1,229 Backhoe With Mahindra Logis cs Limited (MLL) JEETO MINIVAN Loaders (BHLs) against 1,025 in 2017, which launching its IPO, the journey of rapid growth con nues within the Group. In the Launched the Jeeto Minivan, a stylish and is a growth of 19.9%. Mahindra Two comfortable passenger carrier developed on Wheelers Limited was demerged into M&M last 40 years, the share price of the Group has gone up by the successful Jeeto pla orm and sold 32,661 vehicles. 3,400 times TIVOLI ARMOUR SsangYong Motor launched the Tivoli Armour Mahindra Group and Ford Motor in July, an upgraded version of current Tivoli Company agreed to explore a strategic which has earned the No. 1 spot in the alliance, designed to leverage the beneﬁts compact SUV segment since its launch in of Ford's global reach and exper se, and 2015 Mahindra's scale in India and successful opera ng model Mahindra established two new businesses in Bhutan diversiﬁed into trucks & buses, and construc on equipment businesses with Singye Agencies 39 MAHINDRA & SUSTAINABILITY MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 17-18 FARM DIVISION Beyond Financials ELECTRIC MOBILITY FIRST-EVER DRIVERLESS TRACTOR Developed at Mahindra Research Valley in With concerns over air quality and the need to reduce the dependence on fossil fuels, we are Chennai, the Driverless Tractor technology is ac vely pursuing to create an Electric Vehicles (EVs) ecosystem in collabora on with the set to take farm mechanisa on to new Government and other stakeholders. heights. With this launch, Mahindra becomes the pioneer in the Indian tractor industry with the unique proposi on of a driverless Spearheading it is our umbrella brand Mahindra tractor Electric rebranded from Mahindra's electric mobility portfolio under which we manufacture electric cars, JIVO license out our electric vehicle technologies, electrify Mahindra launched the Mahindra Jivo, a 24HP tractor for small landholders. This new our new and existing platforms, and help deliver tractor is the outcome of months of hard integrated zero emissions mobility solutions. work, collabora on and understanding the needs of famers as well as customers pan Some of the steps this year include: India, post successful tes ng and trials Ÿ A key milestone of Mahindra Electric's future technology roadmap, an 'Electric Vehicle Innova on Centre' was inaugurated at Mahindra Electric, Bengaluru in July' 17. It will house tes ng labs for ba ery, electrical safety, drivetrain & power electronics, and also enable environmental & durability tes ng of products by simula ng the real-world condi ons in a lab environment Ÿ In September' 17, the new electric city-smart car 'e2oPlus' was introduced in Nepal, marking the entry of Mahindra into the mass-market electric hatchback segment. Available across the network in associa on with Agni Incorporated Pvt. Ltd., it celebrated the comple on of 5 years of Mahindra Electric in Nepal and will provide an environmentalfriendly choice in the segment for smart city customers. With this, we further strengthened our commitment to sustainable mobility. There has never been a be er me to embrace electric vehicles worldwide, as they not only serve the purpose of a smart city car, but also fulﬁl the need to contribute posi vely toward a cleaner environment THIRD TRACTOR BRAND Ÿ We are also planning to power some of our new and exis ng vehicles with the latest electric In August, Mahindra and Mahindra Ltd. drivetrain technology from Mahindra Electric. It is a clear embodiment of Mahindra's vision announced a new strategic direc on for its of the 'Future of Mobility' which includes the framework of green, connected, convenient subsidiary, Mahindra Gujarat Tractors Limited and cost-eﬀec ve vehicle technology. It was showcased at the Auto-Expo 2018 with new (MGTL), now renamed as Gromax Agri unveils, new technology pla orms and concept EVs Equipment Limited. As part of the renewed strategy, Gromax announced the introduc on of its all new tractor brand, Trakstar YUVO Mahindra launched its range of agri-specialist tractors Yuvo in Sri Lanka NEW UNVEILS NEW TECHNOLOGY PLATFORMS Ÿ e-KUV1OO (India's ﬁrst electric SUV) Ÿ MESMA ((Mahindra Electric Scalable Modular Architecture adaptable pla orm) Ÿ Treo (low maintenance li-ion ba ery powered three-wheeler) Ÿ +NEMO (NExt-gen MObilitya cloud enabled mobility pla orm) Ÿ e-COSMO (ﬁrst electric bus) Ÿ e2o NXT (refreshed version of e2o Plus) CONCEPT EVs Ÿ ATOM (electric mobility with minimalist design philosophy) Ÿ UDO (a compact two-seater electric mobility pod) 40 Swift Banking Some of the factors that are guiding our approach includes: Mahindra & Mahindra Limited became the ﬁrst Indian corporate to successfully industry1.0 industry2.0 industry3.0 industry4.0 complete domes c payments via the SWIFT Mechanisa on, Mass produc on, Computer and CyberIndia pla orm, in partnership with Standard Water power, Assembly line, Automa on Physical Steam power Electricity systems Chartered Bank. Mahindra selected SWIFT to streamline and ra onalise its banking channels using a single and standardised connec vity pla orm. The adop on of SWIFT India will bring in We invest in crea ng facili es with cu ng-edge equipment that can I N D U S T R Y process eﬃciencies through the use of a single, bank agnos c pla orm and produce, adapt and innovate, as per the needs of the market. We standardised payment formats for both were among the ﬁrst to adopt global and domes c ﬂows, while leveraging a Industry 4.0 framework, the digital pla orm that is known for its security, fron er of manufacturing. reliability and STP (Straight Through Processing) capabili es. F R A M E W O R K MANAGEMENT APPROACH At Mahindra, we look at sustainability not as a responsibility, but as an opportunity. An 1 2 3 incredible opportunity to drive posi ve Digitisation and Integration of digitisation of product Digital business models change for all our stakeholders. This vertical & horizontal value chains and service offerings and customer access Alternate Thinking, developed and prac ced over the years, ensures ﬁnancial growth and proﬁt, responsibility towards communi es and environment, good governance, ethical prac ces, and respec ng the law of the land. In everything we do, we ensure that we Rise I oT to do good. platforms cloud With a vision to empower computing mobile location devices detection people to Rise to their technologies dreams and achieve their advanced human-machine full potential, we enable interfaces them by creating authentications 3d & fraud detection printing multilevel solutions that provide customer interaction mobility and productivity. and customer big data proofing In this, we are led by our analytics & advanced augmented 'Futurise' philosophy, algorithms smart reality/ sensors wearables where we are not only equipped for the present, but also ready for the future. Our engineers in India, US, South Korea and Ÿ Our focus on electric vehicles con nues in reference to the need for be er air quality and Italy, are working to turn our vision of the 5Cs reduce the dependence on fossil fuels, with a planned investment of INR 500 crores of the future of mobilityClean, Connected, Ÿ We are adop ng a strategy to develop and introduce petrol engines across the product range. Clever, Convenient and Cost-eﬀec ve With deregula on of fuel prices, the petrol and diesel prices have narrowed and in mobility solu onsinto reality. combina on with higher taxes on diesel vehicles, has reduced the demand for diesel vehicles. Further, with BSVI emission norms coming into eﬀect from April 1st, 2020, the cost diﬀeren al in mee ng the norms would put more pressure on the diesel vehicles Ÿ We are on course for migra ng to BSVI emission norms from ﬁnancial year 2020 as well as Bharat New Vehicle Safety Assessment Programme (BNVSAP) by ﬁnancial year 2019 for new vehicles and ﬁnancial year 2020 for exis ng vehicles Ÿ Given the importance of the automobile industry to the economy, its poten al for genera ng employment opportuni es, and its backward and forward linkages with several sectors, we are keenly suppor ng the Make in India ini a ve 41 MAHINDRA & SUSTAINABILITY MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 17-18 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Economic Value Generated & Distributed M&M + MVML INR million Economic Net Income 504,813 Value Generated Economic Value Distributed Economic Total expenses 448,125 Value Excep onal items (4,336.1) 469,217.9 Distributed Net current taxes 12,112.3 Economic Value Retained Deferred taxes 2,772.4 Proposed dividend 10,544.3 FY 2017-18 35,595.1 Total Economic 469,217.9 Value Distributed Total Economic Value Generated Economic Value 35,595.1 Retained 504,813 R&D INR million FY FY FY FY Net Revenue Proﬁt A er Tax 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 475,77.58 46,232.01 15,796.11 18,858.90 20,755.80 20,660.75 Research and Development: FY 2017-18 data is only for M&M Financial Assistance Received from the Government INR million Name of the Tax relief/ Investment Royalty Financial Financial Other Company credits Subsidies grants, Awards Total holidays, assistance incen ves ﬁnancial research & if any? from beneﬁts development export received or grants, and credit receivable other agencies from any relevant (ECA's) government types of if any? for any grants opera on M&M FES 846.3 – – – – – – – 846.3 MVML – – 867.60 – – – – – 867.60 Name of the Tax relief/ Investment Royalty Duty Financial Other Company credits Subsidies grants, Awards Total holidays, drawback + incen ves ﬁnancial research & if any? focus beneﬁts development market received or grants, and incen ve receivable other from any relevant government types of for any grants opera on M&M AS – – – – – 487.27 – 902.89 1,390.16 42 LOCAL S U P P LY Our goal is to be among the top 50 most Although as a corporate business with a base in admired global brands by 2021. India, our possibility of local sourcing covers the While we con nue our eﬀorts to expand globally, we are commi ed to localise our entire country; each business has its own description produc on and opera on. It not only vitalises and limit of what is classi ed as local. There may be the local industry and provides jobs to the many factors, but effectively it revolves around local community, but also reduces our carbon footprint. It reinforces our commitment to industry requirements, the nature of operation, Make in India as well. access to technology and know-how, tax and duty This larger objec ve of energising the local regimes, and supply of skilled manpower. economy is served with no compromise on quality standards. Some of the aspects which enable us to iden fy and empanel our An analysis of the top 10 suppliers as per monetary value for each business shows that on an suppliers include: aggregate basis, 100% of our requirement was sourced locally. Performance and onme delivery Local Purchase Compliance on Environment, Health Total Purchases Purchases from Purchases from Percentage of and Safety guidelines (INR million) Top 10 Suppliers Local Suppliers Local Suppliers (INR million) (within top 10) (within top 10) Commitment to reduce the (INR million) carbon footprint Statutory requirements Auto Division 1,36,034 36,804.6 36,804.6 100% Costs | Corporate policy Swaraj 34,639.2 14,722.7 12,238.03 83% Farm Division 59,605.3 16,726.4 16,726.4 100% FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS OF CLIMATE CHANGE As the GDP of companies and countries rise, so do the emissions and greenhouse gases. This results in an increase in sea level as well as global warming. The growth appe te of mankind has resulted in a serious dent on the limited natural resources available and an alarming eﬀect on the climate. Climate change and vola le weather directly impacts our business, as we are present in the manufacturing and agricultural sector. Consequences include dependence on monsoons, reduced availability of raw materials and rising energy costs, which are detrimental to the long-term survival of our business. But, these are the condi ons we thrive in. Years of ac ve Alternate Thinking has made us realise the importance of threats and how to convert them into opportuni es. Following are some ways in which we kept focus on addressing climate change: SEPTEMBER 12-14, 2018 | SAN FRANCISCO, CA I am invi ng all companies, par cularly those that emit the most, to commit to set science-based targets. So that by Global Climate Ac on Summit in September, 500 companies step up and Mr. Anand G. Mahindra issued a challenge at Davos 2018, exhor ng corpora ons to come forward and adopt Science Based Targets in large numbers and reach 500 commitments by commit to set science-based the Global Climate Ac on Summit in September 2018. Taking on emission and carbon targets. footprint reduc on targets as per the SBT framework is a tes mony of the Company's con nuing eﬀorts to combat climate change. Mr. Anand Mahindra is a co-Chair in California's Anand Mahindra Governor Brown's 'The Global Climate Ac on Summit' in September' 18. Chairman, Mahindra Group 43 MAHINDRA & SUSTAINABILITY MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 17-18 Ÿ Science Based Targets (SBT) are targets adopted by companies to reduce GHG emissions. They Ÿ Over the last two years, our total water are considered 'science-based' if they are in line with the level of decarbonisa on required to consump on has come down by almost keep global temperature increase below 2°C compared to pre-industrial revolu on. 1,34,696 m3. Automo ve Sector and Farm Equipment Sector recycled and reused 35% Two Mahindra companies Mahindra Sanyo Special and 43% respec vely of the total water consumed Steel Private Limited (MSSSPL) and Tech Mahindra Ltd. had made a commitment to set an SBT, which is adopted by companies to reduce GHG emissions Ÿ We partnered with Energy Eﬃciency Services Limited (EESL) for an LED replacement programme with energy Ÿ We became the ﬁrst Indian company to sign EP100 commitmenta commitment to double eﬃcient (EE) alterna ves across our energy produc vity by 2030, on a baseline of 2005and hope to make a strong Mahindra's 18 manufacturing facili es in contribu on towards achieving the climate goals agreed upon at COP21 India. The installa on of LED ligh ng will save 20 million units of electricity per annum. Mahindra has made an investment Ÿ Mahindra Group CSO, Mr. Anirban Ghosh is on the 'Expert Commi ee on Carbon of INR 16 crore in this project Revenues'. This is led by a World Bank enabled group called I4CE (Ins tute for Climate Economics). Earlier, we became the 1st company in India to declare an Internal Carbon Price of $10 per tonne of carbon emissions in 2016 and our carbon pricing leadership story Ÿ M&M announced a collabora on with LG featured in the World Bank Report Chem, Korea's leading manufacturer of advanced ba eries for Li-ion ba ery technology, to jointly support EV Ÿ We are inves ng in solar power too. This year, we have installed 269 kWp Solar Power Plant revolu on in India. We will develop a at a tractor warehouse, which will cater to 27% of our power requirement in Jaipur plant unique cell exclusively for India applica on and will also supply Li-ion cells based on NMC (nickel-manganese-cobalt) chemistry with high energy density. These cells will be deployed in the Mahindra and SsangYong range of Electric Vehicles. LG Chem will also design the Li-ion ba ery modules for Mahindra Electric, which in turn will create ba ery packs for the Mahindra Group and other customers Ÿ We con nue to disclose our performance in Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI), Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and CII Sustainability Plus. Sustainability Roadmap with targets taken to reduce carbon emissions, water consump on, increase in use of renewable energy and enhance recycling of waste, is reviewed consistently 44 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE In ﬁnance, when we spend too much we run up debt which if le unchecked can It is, therefore, imperative to enhance eventually lead to bankruptcy. Similarly, drawing down resources from nature, environmental performance in an without any control, can lead to collapse of the ecosystem. ef cient manner so that we can reduce scarcity of resources, mitigate operational and supply chain risks, and create value for all the stakeholders today and in the future. 45 MAHINDRA & SUSTAINABILITY MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 17-18 MANAGEMENT APPROACH At Mahindra, we understand that we are borrowing resources from nature and it is our responsibility to pay back. That is why our environment management approach is governed by 3Cs conserva on, con nuous improvement and comprehensive disclosures. We have a cohesive framework, well-structured processes and focused interven ons as the founda on of our resource management strategy to rejuvenate the natural assets. Our environmental performance comprises ini a ves to manage energy, waste, water and biodiversity. All our interven ons are directed towards the KPIs material to our business. CARBON NEUTRALITY WATER POSITIVITY & SECURITY Ac ng to reduce greenhouse gas emissions Crea ng more water than we are actually to zero and then 'oﬀse ng' an equivalent using for a sustainable future through amount of any remaining emissions. reduc on, reuse and harves ng. Ÿ Mahindra's carbon pricing leadership Ÿ AD Igatpuri plant cer ﬁed as a water posi ve plant story featured in World Bank report Ÿ Detailed risk mapping and audits at diﬀerent plants Ÿ Inaugurated onsite solar power plant Ÿ LEED cer ﬁca on for eﬃciency right from design stage Ÿ Se ng up bio-CNG plants Ÿ IGBC green building cer ﬁca on ZERO WASTE & CIRCULAR ECONOMY PROMOTING BIODIVERSITY Crea ng a restora ve, zero-waste economic Where each species, no ma er how model in which resources are used to full small, have an important role to play. capacity and natural systems are regenerated. Ÿ AD Igatpuri plant cer ﬁed as a Ÿ Conducted biodiversity assessment at AD Zaheerabad zero waste to landﬁll company Ÿ Repor ng on 10-point India Business & Biodiversity Ÿ Paint sludge and co on waste recycling Ini a ve (IBBI) declara on Ÿ Se ng up biogas plant Ÿ Partnering with world leaders like IBBI, Terracon and IUCN on biodiversity Environmental Policies AUTOMOTIVE & FARM EQUIPMENT SECTOR ENERGY MANAGEMENT POLICY Environmental policies at M&M have been The Automo ve & Farm Equipment sector has formulated an energy management policy which integrated into our business and implemented focuses on maximising produc vity by: Group-wide helping us minimise impact and restore the environment, contribute to longŸ improving the organisa on's energy performance through implementa on of energy term sustainability of products and services, management system and improve the local environment and Ÿ se ng energy objec ves, targets and review mechanism community in which we operate. This in turn has led to posi ve rela ons with our Ÿ ensuring availability of necessary informa on and resources to achieve objec ves and targets stakeholders. Every employee adheres to the Ÿ complying with all applicable legal and other compliance obliga ons related to energy use, environment policy and its implementa on is overseen by plant managers of respec ve consump on and eﬃciency facili es. Ÿ promo ng use of renewable energy and green ini a ves to conserve natural resources The manufacturing plants Ÿ delivering on carbon price to spur innova on of M&M are now in the Ÿ purchasing energy eﬃcient products as per green procurement policy and design for improving process of being certi ed the energy performance throughout their life cycle with ISO-14001-2015 Ÿ encouraging stakeholders, associates and supply chain partners for adop on of energy Environment management systems as applicable Management System The energy policy is reviewed periodically during management reviews. 46 AUTOMOTIVE & FARM EQUIPMENT SECTOR SUSTAINABILITY POLICY SCPC organised a supplier meet for Mumbai based suppliers at Kandivali Plant to discuss The Automo ve sector has formulated a sustainability policy which focuses on integra ng tractor industry outlook for FY 2018-19 and sustainability prac ces to: M&M's journey towards global leadership. Ÿ mi gate climate change risk to our business Suppliers were also informed about the Ÿ embed environmental and social aspects in our business decisions and goals priori es including TPM at suppliers' end, schedule on M-setup and 100% recyclable Ÿ deliver on carbon price and spur innova on packaging. Ÿ achieve carbon neutral status and focus on driving EP100 programme Ÿ ensure zero waste to landﬁll and circular economy Ÿ encourage employees and society at large to adopt sustainable prac ces Ÿ foster inclusive development Ÿ maintain a clean and healthy work environment for employees Ÿ build a sustainable value chain Ÿ grow green revenue by developing new products and improving exis ng ones Ÿ op mise use of natural resources through material subs tu on, recycling and reuse OTHER KEY INITIATIVES Sustainable Supply Chain Management Ÿ Developing the sustainability ecosystem: M&M serves 20 key industries and has an opera onal presence in over 100 countries with a Capability building for 345 suppliers ll date total supplier base of 1,000. The success of our businesses is inextricably linked to the since 2016 performance of our supply chain. Besides being eﬀec ve and eﬃcient, we ensure our supply chains are sustainable. Ÿ Conducted Supplier Sustainability We undertake proac ve engagements with our suppliers and vendors to encourage Assessments for 43 suppliers at AFS level environment-friendly prac ces beyond our factory gates and mo vate them to adopt green ini a ves. We promote a supply chain that has least impact on the environment, does not Ÿ Reduced wooden packaging by 15% and deplete natural resources, and contributes to social jus ce and equality. 62% in AD and FD respec vely In the repor ng period, following sustainability ini a ves were rolled out across our supply chain. REVISED SUSTAINABLE GREEN SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT & PROCUREMENT POLICY 2016 M&M revised its sustainable green supply chain management and procurement policy in the repor ng period to enhance sustainability performance and minimise environmental, social and ﬁnancial risks within M&M's supply chain. Ÿ Sustainability Balance Scorecard for 80 suppliers at AFS level Ÿ Implemented Total Produc ve Maintenance at 40 suppliers Ÿ Conducted Dealer Sustainability Assessment of 500+ dealers for FD through DSQI & for 537 dealers through MDEP Ÿ Installed rainwater harves ng at 31 suppliers and solar energy at 25 suppliers Ÿ Collaborated for solar power with mSusten and SMEs Ÿ Installed LED at 101 suppliers through EESL Ÿ Conducted extensive energy audit at 4 ENGAGING THE SUPPLIERS ON SUSTAINABILITY suppliers in collabora on with Ins tu on of Sustainable Communi es. Target set for FY Igatpuri Plant organised the ﬁ h “Supplier Sustainability Meet” at Pentwyn Club urging supplier partners to make sustainability a way of life and take forward the sustainability ini a ves to their 2018-19 is 25 suppliers respec ve manufacturing facili es. 32 suppliers ac vely par cipated in the event. 20 of the Ÿ Trained 278 suppliers on EHS Champions by suppliers also presented their ini a ves on sustainability. The best ini a ves were judged by jury EHS+ Centre members and top presenta ons were awarded. 47 MAHINDRA & SUSTAINABILITY MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 17-18 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT External Cer ﬁca on of Management Systems Renewable 1.79 Energy Cer ﬁcates 4.53 Consent Applica on/ Water Quality Renewal Applica on w.r.t Monitoring Pollu on Control Boards 2.32 15.08 Air Emission Monitoring (stack & ambient) 4.78 Waste Disposal/ Treatment STP/ETP Maintenance 30.27 10.46 TOTAL INVESTMENT Wind Power IN ENVIRONMENTAL INTERVENTIONS 150 288.47 INR MILLION MAHINDRA GROUP’S REVENUE FROM GREEN PRODUCTS 419 MIILION INR 48 Calculating Speci c Consumption We measure our environmental performance on absolute as well as speciﬁc basis. The speciﬁc consump on is calculated by dividing absolute consump on by a denominator based on the nature of business. For e.g., in case of manufacturing business units, it is the number of units produced, whereas for services, it is the number of employees, or units of services oﬀered, etc. The denominators for the companies of the sector are delineated in the following table. Speciﬁc Consump on Denominator Unit of Business measure Change in 2017-18 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 over previous year Equivalent Automo ve number of Division (AD) 584,733 559,869 608,807 8.74% vehicles manufactured Equivalent Farm Division + number of Swaraj Division (FD+SD) 332,577 423,592 488,474 15.32% tractors manufactured Spares Business Tonnes of Unit (SBU) packaging 6,691 7,356 6,925 5.86% material Swaraj Foundry Tonnes of Division (SFD) produc on 21,838 29,231 32,149 9.98% Nashik Plant Equivalent Dies (NPD) 327 559 525 6.08% Dies Full Time Mahindra Research Valley (MRV) equivalent 2,530 2,815 2,815 Unchanged employees Area of Corporate Centre (CC) facility in 14,680 14,680 14,680 Unchanged sq. m. Note: The methodology for calcula on of equivalent vehicles has been changed for Auto Division. Hence, the prior year ﬁgures for AD have been changed accordingly. 49 MAHINDRA & SUSTAINABILITY MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 17-18 AIR QUALITY While manufacturing contributes to the growth of the na on, it is also responsible for poor quality of air which adversely aﬀects the health of the people and the ecosystem. Being a manufacturer, we are conscious of the impacts of our opera ons and take responsibility and ownership of our ac ons. We proac vely adhere to all the statutory norms and regula ons in the state or the country we have presence in. Me culous monitoring systems are in place to keep track of various pollutants which contaminates the air. In accordance with the revised Na onal Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS 2009), the Par culate Ma er PM10 (size less than 10 μm) & PM2.5 (size less than 2.5 μm), Sulphur Oxides ( SOx) and Nitrogen Oxides (NOx) are regularly monitored across our manufacturing and service loca ons. Some manufacturing plants also monitor more speciﬁc pollutants applicable to their processes like Respirable Suspended Par culate Ma er (RSPM), Carbon Monoxide (CO), Methane (CH), Ozone (O), Lead (Pb) among others. OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCE (OSD) Total Absolute GHG Emissions tCO2 OSDs deplete the earth's ozone layer which protects living beings from the sun's ultraviolet radia ons. The discharge of ODS can adversely aﬀect nature's balance and, therefore, we Scope 1 (Direct Emissions) con nuously monitor and improve our processes. We reduce our consump on of resources 42,093 41,777 and emission of ODS such as Hydroﬂuorocarbons (HFCs), Hydrochloroﬂuorocarbons (HCFCs) and Halons. Ambient Air Quality microgram/m3 38,051 Sectors PM 10 PM 2.5 SOx NOx NAAQ LIMITS 2009 100 60 80 80 Target 2017-18 | 42,786 AD 42.4 18 6.55 9.74 FD+SD 95.70 49.90 6.47 14.67 Scope 2 (Indirect Emissions) 226,950 SBU 6.45 3.1 0.963 2.57 SFD 92 90 0 5.09 211,958 85 32 6.37 4.96 204,272 NPD MRV 33.70 15.60 10.70 12.40 Target 2017-18 | 229,689 Air Emissions (Stacks) tonnes Sectors TPM SOx NOx Scope 3 (Other Direct Emissions) 464,935 AD 6.97 3.87 6.08 349,712 FD + SD 0.37 16.90 20.90 Mahindra Spares Business 0 0 0 214,362 SFD 0.046 0.0129 0.0534 NPD 0 0 0 No target for Scope 3 MRV 3.29 0.592 3.90 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 GREENHOUSE GASES Our scope 1 emissions have gone down by 2.4% to 41,777 tCO2 compared to last year Greenhouse gases are emi ed in a variety of ways including fossil fuel in cars, factories and and surpassed the target set for lowering the electricity and they are responsible for global warming. The solu on to this problem is to direct emissions in FY 2017-18. Our scope 1 reduce energy consump on and switching from fossil fuels to alternate energy. We constantly emissions are down 2.41% against the target strive to reduce this risk through construc ve contribu on based on eﬃcient measurement, of 42,786 tCO2 due to process improvements control and mi ga on of GHG emissions. and switchover to cleaner fuels. Scope 2 emissions have increased marginally This year, our businesses together mitigated 17,879 by over 1% due to increase in produc on. However, we have been able to surpass our tCO2 of GHG emissions target set for lowering indirect emissions. Due to switchover to the cleaner fuels, our Despite increased produc on ac vity across a number of businesses within M&M, we have scope 2 emissions are down 1.21%, managed to keep the scope 1+2 emissions in check. We remain commi ed to reduce our GHG compared to the set target. emissions by 25% by 2019. 50 GHG Emissions By Source* tCO2 Source 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 SCOPE 1 DIRECT EMISSIONS Diesel/HSD 14,602 16,561 12,655 Furnace Oil 338 205 NA LPG + (Bharat Metal Cu ng Gas) 3,480 3,652 5,582 Natural Gas + CNG 15,914 16,053 15,598 Petrol 547 713 968 Propane 3,171 4,909 6,974 Grand Total 38,051 42,093 41,777 SCOPE 2 INDIRECT EMISSIONS Electricity Purchased 204,272 211,958 226,950 SCOPE 3 OTHER DIRECT EMISSIONS Inbound logis cs, outbound logis cs, 214,362 464,935 349,712 daily commuta on, air travel, paper consump on GHG Emissions Division-Wise Composi on* tCO2 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 Sector Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 AD , , , , , , , , , FD+SD , , , , , , , , , SBU , , , , , , SFD , , , , , , NPD , , , MRV , , , , , , , CC DNA , DNA DNA , DNA . , DNA DNA Data Not Available The total speciﬁc emissions have gone down Total Speciﬁc Emissions (Scope + )* tCO2 /unit of measure by 7% in FD+SD to 0.190 tCO2 in FY 2017-18 compared to 0.204 tCO2 in FY 2016-17. % Reduc on in 2017-18 Sector 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 over previous year The emissions have also reduced by 3% in AD to 0.185 tCO2 in FY 2017-18 as against AD . . . % 0.192 tCO2 in FY 2016-17 due to process improvements and switchover to cleaner fuels. FD+SD . . . % However, emissions have increased SBU . . . % signiﬁcantly in SBU by 31% to 0.300 tCO2 due to reduced produc on and be er repor ng. . . . % SFD *Above emission ﬁgures are calculated by Mahindra & NPD . . . % Mahindra Limited using the following emission factors (a) Diesel (2.644 T CO2e/KL), (b) Petrol (2.302 T CO2e/KL), (c) LPG (0.00298 T CO2e /Kg), (d) Grid electricity (0.82 kg MRV . . . -% CO2e/KWh), (e) Outbound travel (0.00264463 T CO2e /Km), (f) Daily commute (0.002645 T CO2e /Km), CC . . . % (g) Paper (0.0029 T CO2e /Kg), (i) Inbound-Land cargo (0.002645 T CO2e /Km) and (j) Employee Air travel Note: The speciﬁc emission of AD has changed for previous years (0.000121 T CO2e /Km) due to change in methodology for calcula ng equivalent vehicles. 51 MAHINDRA & SUSTAINABILITY MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 17-18 GHG Mi ga on tCO2 Sector 2017-18 AD , FD + SD , SFD MRV Total , BIODIVERSITY Conserva on of biodiversity leads to a balanced climate and vital ecosystem services required to boost the economic ac vity. M&M has been focusing on biodiversity and its sustainable use in its opera ons and beyond towards rejuvena on of India's biodiversity. Some of our interven ons to conserve and rejuvenate biodiversity include ascertaining value from environmental performance, repor ng on 10point India Business & Biodiversity Ini a ve (IBBI) declara on, conduc ng biodiversity assessments, and partnering with world leaders like IBBI, Terracon and IUCN on biodiversity. INITIATIVE BIODIVERSITY ASSESSMENT AT ZAHEERABAD CHALLENGE The Automo ve sector depends directly as well as indirectly on biological diversity, ecosystems and its services. The rela onship is complex and linked to value chain. The raw materials which are extracted from mines for produc on and the waste material disposed can have a range of The project sites are highly dependent on air quality regula on, carbon sequestra on, impact on the biodiversity and noise and dust control on greenbelt and hor culture areas. If these impacts are not ecosystem services. The challenge is to managed properly it may result in degrada on of one or more ecosystem services. mi gate the risks related to the ecosystem services and securing Observa ons recorded during site visits corporate produc on through Ÿ Leucaena leucocephala (Subabul) was recorded within the greenbelt, hor culture and conserva on and rejuvena on of colony areas of the project. In the absence of mely interven on, the growth of weed can biodiversity. lead to degrada on of planta on and loss of produc vity in the hor culture area. Subabul has been reported as a weed in more than 20 countries across all con nents and INTERVENTION listed as one of the '100 of the World's Worst Invasive Alien Species' by ISSG and IUCN. The single season biodiversity assessment Ÿ Most of the greenbelt area under observa on had only mango planta on. The greenbelt was taken up at the Zaheerabad project performs be er with mix planta on of diﬀerent varie es and provides high quality in December 2016 to eﬀec vely manage ecosystem services and habitat to local fauna. ﬂoral and faunal biodiversity within the project sites and the nearby areas. Ÿ Biodiversity index of the site was analysed. Based on all the inputs the biodiversity index The sampling was carried out at various of the site was 48 out of 100 points. loca ons within the project site and Natural Capital Ac on Plan (NCAP) nearby areas. The three sites iden ﬁed Based on the observa ons, NCAP was prepared to improve the biodiversity quo ent of the include Auto Division, Farm Division and project area and mi gate risks. NCAP focused on iden fying, evalua ng, conserving (and if colony area. possible enhancing) the relevant aspects of biodiversity and ecosystem services. As part of The total land acquired for the purpose the NCAP several ini a ves were taken up. was 343.25 acres, of which 101 acres is with Auto Division, 88 acres with Farm • Invasive species (Subabul) removal plan with new planta on Division, 85.25 acres with colony area • Shrubs for roadside planta on • Development of bu erﬂy garden and 69 acres lying vacant. • Installa on of nest boxes for birds 52 ENERGY Without energy, there is no manufacturing. In a globally compe ve environment, eﬃcient management of energy has become more cri cal for two major reasons: it is directly related to reduc on in greenhouse gas emission, and it leads to cost reduc on. At M&M, we have a two-pronged approach to energy management. First, maximising the output from each wa of energy consumed, and second, increasing alterna ve energy in our total energy mix. All our interven ons are focused on this approach. Last year, we signed up for the 'EP100' campaign led by The Climate Group, to double our energy produc vity by 2030. This is part of our contribu on towards achieving the climate goals agreed upon at COP21. We adopted a range of technologies for enhancing our energy produc vity. This includes energy eﬃcient ligh ng, air-condi oning, motors and appliances, etc. We also re-engineered business processes to reduce energy demand, heat recovery projects to use waste heat produc vely and construc on to reduce the need for energy. We are investing in solar power, too. This year, we installed 269 kWp solar power plant at a tractor warehouse, which will cater to 27% of our power requirement in our Jaipur plant. Absolute Energy Consump on (in GJ) The absolute energy consump on increased in FY 2017-18 due to increase in produc on of most businesses. The calcula ons that are included are for GJ only all types fuels, electricity from grid, renewable power, etc. and are reported in absolute & speciﬁc terms showing trends of 3 years. The calcula ons for deriving at energy are based on GHG Protocol and the approach for energy is opera onal control. Total for Total for Total for 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 1,528,765 1,633,603 1,703,273 GJ GJ GJ 928,507 600,258 970,851 662,752 1,025,772 677,501 Indirect Direct Indirect Direct Indirect Direct Total Energy Consump on by Source GJ Energy Consumed % Source (2017-18) of Total Energy Electricity Purchased from Grid 1,006,308 59 LPG 88,600 5 Diesel/HSD 170,792 10 Natural Gas + CNG 278,093 16 Petrol 13,966 1 Propane 113,216 7 Renewable Energy Source 32,298 2 53 MAHINDRA & SUSTAINABILITY MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 17-18 Total Energy Consump on GJ Energy Savings GJ Sector 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 Sector 2017-18 AD , , , AD , FD+SD , , , FD + SD , SBU , , , SFD SFD , , , MRV NPD , , , MRV , , , CC , , , Speciﬁc Energy Consump on GJ % Reduc on in 2017-18 Sector 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 over previous year AD . . . % FD+SD . . . % SBU . . . % SFD . . . % NPD . . . % 84,207 GJ energy MRV . . . % saved through sustained CC . . . % energy saving initiatives amounting to Note: The speciﬁc energy of AD has changed for previous years due to change in methodology for calcula ng equivalent vehicles. INR 139.80 million. We have surpassed our target for total Total Energy Consump on MWh energy consump on this year by over 1%. Against the target of 477,947 MWh set for FY Target Energy Source 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2017-18 2017-18, the total energy consumed stood at 473,132 MWh. Non-renewable (Fuel) , , , Energy generated or purchased from renewables, such as wind and solar, saw a Non-renewable signiﬁcant increase of over 100% in the total , , , (Electricity purchased from grid) energy consumed to 8,972 MWh from 3,909 MWh, due to increase in solar and wind capaci es at our plants. Energy from fuel and Renewable energy , , , purchased from grid also saw a marginal (Wind, solar, generated or purchased) increase due to increase in produc on and indirect renewables. Total Energy Consump on , , , , Energy Saving Initiatives A wa saved is a wa generated. We GREEN STAMP OF APPROVAL | MAHINDRA TOWERS, KANDIVALI con nued to ﬁnd ways and implement them to conserve energy across the en re process Mahindra Towers, Kandivali, was awarded with a Pla num Ra ng by the IGBC council a er its of produc on. This year, some of the key evalua on on ﬁve categories – Site & Facility Management, Water Eﬃciency, Energy Eﬃciency, energy saving ini a ves taken up at M&M Health & Comfort, and Innova on in Design. The IGBC is part of CII and is ac vely involved in includes heat recovery, energy eﬃcient airpromo ng the Green Building movement in India. condi oning and programmable logic This cer ﬁca on is a valida on of Mahindra's vision to Crusade 2.0, to promote sustainability, controllers. and reduce carbon and water footprint. Mahindra Towers, Kandivali, is the second exis ng building to be awarded cer ﬁca on under IGBC a er Igatpuri Plant admin building. 54 ENHANCING AWARENESS FOR CONSERVATION | MIQ Mahindra Ins tute of Quality (MIQ) and Group Sustainability conducted a training course on 'Energy Management – The Mahindra Way' at MIQ, Nashik with the objec ve of enhancing energy conserva on awareness for eﬀec ve asset selec on, resource u lisa on, process op misa on, enhancing opera onal eﬃciency and dissemina ng latest techniques and advancements in the ﬁeld of Energy Management. The course was conducted by internal and external facul es with the focus on reducing electrical and thermal energy usage. A total of 25 par cipants from Auto, Farm, Swaraj Division, Spares Business, Mahindra Accelo, Mahindra Heavy Engines and MRV a ended the course. It also included par cipants from Mahindra suppliers, namely the CIE Forging division. NANO STEP TO BIG ENERGY SAVINGS | FD ZAHEERABAD TRACTOR PLANT The Farm division started using Hydromx, a NanoTherm ﬂuid in paint shop's hot water generators at FD Zaheerabad tractor plant. This ﬂuid uses nano-par cles suspended in water and in stable state it increases the speed of heat transfer, thereby requiring signiﬁcantly less energy (propane gas). Introduc on of Hydromx resulted in reduc on of propane gas consump on by 20%. Buoyed by the results, the technology will be horizontally deployed across the Farm sector Zaheerabad, Nagpur, Jaipur & Rudrapur paint shops. Hydromx will save around INR 6 million annually and 1.5 lakh kgs of propane gas, thereby reducing our carbon footprint by 400 tons annually. SWITCHING TO CLEANER FUEL | MAHINDRA POWEROL New Gensets for the New-Genera on Diesel generator sets (gensets) meant loud noise and mess, and not good for the environment. Mahindra Powerol has come up with gas gensets which are less noisy and messy, and clean compared to diesel powered gensets. These new-age gensets are approved by Central Pollu on Control Board Stage 2 Emission Norms (CPCB-II). The zero-par culate ma er in the genset will result in negligible pollu on. 55 MAHINDRA & SUSTAINABILITY MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 17-18 SNAPSHOT OF SOME ENERGY INITIATIVES Monitoring Energy Ef ciency of Major Suppliers Energy Sector Loca on Descrip on Saved (GJ) Our suppliers are our allies. They are essen al for ensuring seamless value chain for the Replaced 250W HPSV lights with 120W LED high company's success. Thus, inves ng in their . bay lights for energy eﬃciency and durability sustainability makes M&M more sustainable. We share an extremely posi ve rela onship Replaced 250W ﬂood light with 120W LED . Zaheerabad with the suppliers and engage with them on Replaced 2x28W ﬂuorescent tube lights with . sustainability issues to yield posi ve outcomes. 2x18W LED tube lights Heater-less vaporiser . Installed polycarbonate sheet in store areas, Bolero Haridwar body changeover, 4th shed, Bolero store, etc. in . place of 120 wa 28 Nos., 250 wa 20 Nos. and 75 wa 22 Nos. Eliminated load loss of 4% by shu ng down back. up transformer while not in use Energy Igatpuri Eliminated cooling tower pump by pipeline . Consump on AD modiﬁca on Suppliers (GJ) Op mised power at machine shop . Happy Steels 19,178 Private Ltd. Kandivali Reduced distribu on loss by removing . unwanted cables Mi er Fasteners 15,556 Autocomp Corpora on 8,773 Installed LED street and oﬃce lights , . Panse Pvt. Ltd. Nashik Plant Low temperature heat recovery by using PT . Minda Stoneridge 12,350 Line RC 1 tank heat to Top Coat ASU 1 Instruments Ltd. Swaraj Replaced CFL (85*2 = 170 wa ) with . Ved Industries 9,422 Plant 75 wa LED (500 Nos.) Menon & Menon Ltd. 131,008 SD Swaraj Controlled heater by thyristor control . Super Cra 107,158 Plant Prince Metal Works 44,481 Jaipur Improved power saving through produc vity , . Innova Rubber 21,698 FD Rudrapur Installed hea ng coil in TR line , . Shilp Enterprises 16,733 Mayuresh 58,187 Total Energy Savings , . Engineering Works WATER Besides being vital for human life, water is cri cal for all industries and is central to sustainable Ÿ Our total water consump on has gone up 3 economic ac vity and growth. Even the produc on of raw materials, energy and food relies marginally this year to 1,406,365 m heavily on access to water. At Mahindra, we are aware that demand of water will keep growing compared to 1,356,578 m3 in FY 2016-17 with increasing scale and scope of business and, therefore, we have always been proac ve in 3 conserving and replenishing this natural resource. Ÿ 498,919 m of water recycled and reused In FY 2013-14, Mahindra Group achieved water posi ve status through our 360-degree water across businesses management programme H2Inﬁnity. We are in the process of making our plants self-suﬃcient in water as we consider water as both a risk and opportunity. As part of this strategy, AD, Ÿ 35% of the total water consump on was Igatpuri plant was cer ﬁed as a water posi ve plant. recycled and reused We have made concerted eﬀorts to rejuvenate sources of water. We have a dedicated crossfunc onal team in place to take up ini a ves. Their performance is closely monitored and Ÿ AD and FD recycled and reused 35% and linked to their KPIs to foster a culture of ownership. 43% of its water, respec vely No water source is signiﬁcantly aﬀected by M&M Opera ons. 56 Total Water Consump on m3 Sector 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 AD , , , FD+SD , , , SBU , , , SFD , , , NPD , , , MRV , , , CC , , , Total , , , , , , Speciﬁc Water Consump on m3 per unit of measure % Reduc on in 2017-18 Sector 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 over previous year AD . . . % FD+SD . . . % Reduction in Speci c Water Consumption SBU . . . % reported for AD, SFD . . . % FD+SD, SFD, CC in FY 2017-18 compared NPD . . . % to previous year. MRV . . . % CC . . . % Note: The speciﬁc water of AD has changed for previous years due to change in methodology for calcula ng equivalent vehicles. Water Withdrawal by Source m3 Volume of Water Recycled & Reused Volume % of water of water recycled recycled and reused Sector out of total & reused water (m3) consump on Bo led , | . % Water AD 239,857 35 Ground , | % Water FD + SD 202,061 43 SBU 5,772 18 Rainwater , | % Total Water Withdrawal SFD 13,282 26 Surface Water | % 1,406,365 m MRV 37,417 30 CC 530 1 Water from , | % Municipality Water from , | % Tanker Wastewater from , | % other source 57 MAHINDRA & SUSTAINABILITY MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 17-18 Absolute Water Consump on Million cubic metres Target Source 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2017-18 A Municipal Water Supplies . . . We surpassed our target for absolute B Fresh Surface Water . . . water consumption. Our C Fresh Ground Water . . . total net fresh water consumption for FY D Water returned to the source of . 2017-18 stood at extrac on at similar or higher 1.373145 million cubic quality as raw water extracted metres as against the Total Net Fresh Water . . . . set target of 1.5116 Consump on (A+B+C-D) million cubic metres. Discharged Water Quality Industrial wastewater if discharged untreated can have far reaching eﬀects on the ecosystem and human health. We adhere to limits speciﬁed by the state, na onal and pollu on control boards and con nually monitor our wastewater discharge to ensure that it is free from pollutants. MATERIALS Materials are used as an input for our recycle waste to minimise the amount of unu lised material. This year, despite the increase in produc on processes and subsequently produc on at AD, the material consump on of semi-manufactured material (tonnes) came modiﬁed or transformed into a ﬁnished down by 4.1% to 762,121 tonnes compared to last year's 794,717 tonnes. The consump on of good. At M&M, we minimise the use of semi-manufactured material (liquid) also decreased by over 52% to 3,886 kl compared to material in the produc on process, select previous year's 8,139 kl. On the other hand, because of higher produc on by FD+SD, the most economic raw material, and reduce and corresponding material consump on increased. Material Consump on Material Unit 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 Sustainable value is the key material selection AD criterion at Mahindra. Semi-manufactured Tonnes 808,808 794,717 762,121 We constantly look for Semi-manufactured Kl 8,258.83 8,139 3,886 newer, more incremental FD+SD manufacturing processes Semi-manufactured 349,925.75 494,570 590,930 and innovative technology Associated material 305.95 169 165 to reduce our material Tonnes Raw material 31,345.82 28,625 31,258 consumption. Packaging material 1,737.54 1,264 60 Total 383,315.06 524,628 622,413 Semi-manufactured 8,037.43 1,593 1,460 KI Associated material 4,041.60 5,048 5,368 Total 12,079.03 6,641 6,828 Semi-manufactured 585,466 968,247 1,115,451 Associated material 161,843 107,427 34,761 Nos. Raw material 38,396 51,648 58,017 Packaging material 0 0 2,050,343 Total 785,705 1,127,322 3,258,572 Packaging material Meter 0 0 41,000 Total 0 0 41,000 SBU Packaging material Tonnes 6,691 7,356 6,925 Total 6,691 7,356 6,925 58 PACKAGING SPILLS COMPLIANCE M&M uses packaging which reduces the The best way to manage spills is to see that it At M&M, compliance is basic hygiene. We environmental impact and ecological doesn't occur in the ﬁrst place. We take not only adhere to laws, regula ons, footprint. Though it contributes only a small requisite preven ve steps to mi gate the risk guidelines and speciﬁca ons relevant to our percentage of the total footprint compared of spillage and ensure that we handle business, but adopt a more ambi ous to other things such as transporta on, water materials securely enough so as to keep our approach and go beyond what is required. and energy use, it is part of the overall employees and environment safe. We manage compliances in environment, sustainability at Mahindra. health and safety, and upgrade con nuously We con nue to make our packaging costthrough internal audits. eﬀec ve, convenient and eco-friendly to No signiﬁcant spill incidents were ensure op mal environmental performance recorded during the repor ng period. and enhance the produc vity of resources by In the repor ng period, we incurred diver ng them to other areas. no ﬁnes from any regulatory authority for non-compliance of laws and regula ons. WASTE Waste is the output of the raw material we use to manufacture goods. Every manufacturing Waste management is a comprehensive process leaves waste which needs to be managed eﬃciently. M&M follows a dual approach for process at Mahindra, conducted in a socially waste management. First, we focus on using less and was ng less, and second, pu ng the responsible and environmentally sound waste to produc ve and proﬁtable use and maximising the value we create for our manner. stakeholders. Even then, if we are s ll le with addi onal waste, we dispose it responsibly and Mahindra as a Group is commi ed to in compliance with the rules and regula ons of the state and pollu on control board. minimise the amount of waste that enters landﬁlls from its opera ons. M&M has been introducing a Zero Waste to Landﬁll Waste Generated programme in its plants to not only improve the eﬃciency in manufacturing processes Waste Type Unit 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 but also save physical and ﬁnancial resources AD through energy conserva on and reuse of Hazardous Waste raw materials. This year, due to increased Solid Tonnes 2,283 2,444 2,501 produc on ac vity and enhanced data capturing mechanisms, there is a marked Solid Nos. 106,055 116,574 60,882 increase in the waste generated, especially Liquid KL 18,645 214 240 for FD+SD. Non-Hazardous Waste Solid Tonnes 40,895 39,984 42,294 The practice of using Solid, Tyres, Drums, etc. Nos. 36,692 37,822 16,013 waste as a valuable FD+SD resource enables us to Hazardous Waste foster a circular Solid Tonnes 858 980 1,340 economy which creates Solid Nos. 29,129 26,181 91,734 synergy between Liquid KL 160 103 83 neighbouring industries Non-Hazardous Waste Solid Tonnes 8,120 46,659 49,305 both within and outside the Group. Solid, Tyres, Drums, etc. Nos. 2,068 20,536 26,649 SBU Non-Hazardous Waste Solid Tonnes 2,157 1,632 1,934 MRV Hazardous Waste Solid Tonnes 15 25 29 Liquid KL 116 48 0 Liquid Tonnes 0 0 40 Non-Hazardous Waste Solid Tonnes 695 744 994 Solid Nos. 0 79 59 CORPORATE CENTRE Non-Hazardous Waste Solid Tonnes 0 0 74 59 MAHINDRA & SUSTAINABILITY MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 17-18 Hazardous Waste Disposed to Landﬁll Waste Disposed 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 Target Unit 2017-18 Total Waste Tonnes 3,179 3,458 1,773 2,594 Disposed We surpassed the target for hazardous waste disposal to landﬁll for FY 2017-18. Against the target of 2,594 MT for FY 2017-18, the waste disposal stood at 1,773 MT. The amount of waste disposed was down close to 50% compared to previous year's 3,458 MT. This year we began recycling of our hazardous waste instead of sending it to landﬁll or incinera on. Some loca ons are now sending their hazardous waste to authorised recycler and some are sending for co-processing to cement industries. The total hazardous waste generated in the current year was 3,695 MT, out of which 1,922 MT was recycled. INITIATIVES ENSURING ZERO WASTE GOES TO LANDFILL M&M follows a zero-waste philosophy and manages waste at every stage in hierarchy, right from preven on to minimisa on, reuse, recycling, energy recovery and disposal. As part of this philosophy, ﬁve diﬀerent plants were cer ﬁed as zero waste to landﬁll in the repor ng period. AD Igatpuri plant became the 1st plant in India and 2nd in the world to be cer ﬁed as Zero Waste to Landﬁll by Intertek, USA followed by AD Haridwar, AD Zaheerabad, Farm DivisionZaheerabad, and Swaraj Plant 1. The AD Igatpuri plant has a diversion rate exceeding 99% (landﬁll waste is less than 1% of total waste). The en re data of land diversion is 99.72% and it was veriﬁed by cer fying agency M/s Intertek, USA. ONE MAN'S SCRAP IS ANOTHER MAN'S TREASURE MVML, in co-ordina on with Spares Business Unit (SBU), came up with a unique ini a ve to u lise scrap packaging wood generated at MVML for the SBU division. MVML generates around 1,200 tons of scrap packaging wood per annum. A er refurbishment/conversion at vendor's end, an es mated 600 tons can be reused with an annual savings poten al of around INR 50 to 60 lakhs. The team conceptualised the project a er site visit, feasibility study and tes ng of sample. The annual es mated poten al of Phase I would be around 14 tons, yielding beneﬁts of INR 4.5 to 5 lakhs to SBU, avoiding direct purchase of fresh boxes. OTHER KEY INNOVATIONS IN WASTE MANAGEMENT Ÿ Scrap metal to transformer core Ÿ Foundry waste sand to river sand Ÿ Kitchen waste to fer lisers Ÿ Paint sludge as fuel to cement plants 60 1 CASE STUDY CARBON PRICE 2 C ASE STUDY WATER Towards Towards A Carbon Neutrality Posi ve Future CHALLENGE AD Igatpuri M&M contributes half of the Group's revenue and the Group's greenhouse gas CHALLENGE emissions from its automo ve (SUVs, commercial vehicles), farm equipment (tractors), and agricultural businesses. The challenge is to reduce the greenhouse gas Manufacturing process of most emissions and get on the side of achieving future carbon neutrality. goods require water. To be able to do business sustainably, water ACTION needs to be managed well. In October 2016, M&M became the ﬁrst Indian company to launch an internal carbon ACTION price of $10 per metric ton to reduce the company's carbon footprint and help meet its goal of reducing its greenhouse gas emissions intensity by 25% by 2019 from With the objec ve to combat 2015–2016 levels. water-related business con nuity risk and create a posi ve future, The funds collected from the carbon price are allocated to projects under two major M&M is making each of the plant ac on areas: self-suﬃcient in water. As part of Ÿ carbon (renewable energy, LED ligh ng, energy-eﬃcient motors and HVACs, this strategy several interven ons eﬃcient buildings and infrastructure) were taken up at the AD Igatpuri plant including eﬃciency Ÿ waste (waste-to-energy projects) improvements, Kaizens, rainwater These projects help reduce M&M's scope 1 and scope 2 emissions from its oﬃces and harves ng, micro irriga on, 17 manufacturing units across India. recycling, etc. in FY 2015-16. The carbon price will be re-evaluated every three years in line with M&M's These interven ons helped AD greenhouse gas goal-se ng cycle as part of what the Company calls a 'promise cycle'. Igatpuri plant to achieve a new Moving forward, M&M plans to closely align its internal carbon pricing prac ces with milestone in their sustainability the Mahindra Group's long-term carbon neutrality goal and expand the carbon price journey in 2017. The plant was able programme to other companies within the Group. to save more water than what they In April 2016, M&M became the ﬁrst Indian company to sign EP100 ini a ve, pledging consumed from external sources. to double its energy produc vity by 2030 from 2005 levels. A two-day onsite assessment was carried out by Bureau Veritas India OUTCOMES Pvt. Ltd. which cer ﬁed it as a 'Water Posi ve Plant'. Bureau Veritas is a global leader in conformity assessment and cer ﬁca on services. OUTCOME AD Igatpuri became the ﬁrst plant in Mahindra to be cer ﬁed as water posi ve. The water consump on levels for the plant in FY 2016-17 stood at 3 46,613 m from external source, whereas water saving was 3 M&M saved 51,693 m 58 million kWh of energy from more than 700 energy Other Initiatives 3 eﬃciency projects implemented in the Ÿ Rainwater harves ng of 3.8 lakh m past ﬁve years in the last 5 years equivalent to requirement of 19,280 households Ÿ Since the adop on of the carbon price in October 2016, M&M has increased its Ÿ Rainwater harves ng at SD Plant 1, investment in energy eﬃciency and renewable energy projects, including a 4.2 Kandivali & Zaheerabad MW wind energy project, compared with its 2015 'business as usual' levels. Ÿ Recycling and reuse of ETP water in Ÿ The Company plans to add renewable energy projects in its new ﬁscal year. process Ÿ Water consump on reduc on in Ÿ The carbon price also aligns with The Mahindra Group's 'Rise Philosophy,' in new paint line which an essen al purpose of the business is to drive posi ve change across stakeholders and communi es, enabling them to rise. Ÿ Water footprint reduc on; FD: 28%, SD: 42% compared to FY 2016-17 61 MAHINDRA & SUSTAINABILITY MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 17-18 3 CASE STUDY ENERGY 4 CASE STUDY WASTE Sun is Powering Turning Agrithe Valley | MRV waste into Fuel CHALLENGE CHALLENGE Mee ng the growing demand for energy in an environmentally safe and responsible India produces millions of tons of manner is a key challenge. Mahindra Research Valley is focusing on alterna ve energy crops every year which leads to to reduce carbon emissions and cut power costs, diversify energy supply to make it tons of agriculture waste including more sustainable and as a hedge against future energy market vola lity. rice straw, sugarcane bagasse, coconut shell and others. Disposing ACTION this waste safely without causing air pollu on is a challenge. ACTION Indraprastha Gas Limited (IGL), the largest CNG distribu on company of India, entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Mahindra Waste to Energy Solu ons Limited (MWTESL), a subsidiary of Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. to provide a solu on to agri-waste management and stubble burning through design and development of biogas plants. These biogas plants will use agro and other organic waste in Delhi and other ci es in the region where IGL operates. IGL currently supplies CNG and PNG to Delhi, Noida, Greater Noida, Ghaziabad and Rewari with plans to start opera ons in Gurugram and Karnal shortly. The project aims to convert paddy/wheat straw into bio-CNG. In addi on to allevia ng the ill eﬀects of stubble burning on the environment, this project will also add to the income of the farmers in the region. Mahindra Research Valley inaugurated its onsite 420 KW solar power plant to cater to a por on of its power requirement through green energy. EXPECTED OUTCOMES Spread over an area of 4,200 sq. metres, the installa on oﬀers a covered car parking Ÿ The plant is proposed to be to the employees as an added beneﬁt. Installed on Opex model, the structure is developed with state-of-the-art capable of withstanding a wind speed of 180 kmph and will generate 7.25 lakh units technology provided by Mahindra per annum. This along with earlier installa ons will increase green power in the total and will aim to resolve the woes energy mix. MRV availed the services of Mahindra Susten and M/S Aspira on Energy of waste management which is a Private Limited for the installa on of the power plant. huge problem for the country. The bio-CNG generated will be OUTCOME used to power vehicles and for Besides providing energy security, cu ng down on emissions and the cost, the power electrifying farm and household from alterna ve sources will now cater to 4% of the MRV's energy requirement. appliances. MRV's total energy genera on for FY 2017-18 is es mated to reach Ÿ The manure generated as a by11.5 lakh units per annum product will be used as organic fer liser for farm cul va on by GOING AHEAD farmers which will help improve soil fer lity as it will negate the Ÿ 275 KW solar power project which will take the share of green energy to 5% requirement of chemical Ÿ World Resources Ins tute and Mahindra World City are in talks to set up wind-based fer lisers. power plant with an aim of conver ng 10% of its energy requirements to clean energy 62 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT APPROACH Being conscious of our contributions to society and communities, results in Our performance on our social impact is an integral component of our business, and being favourable cause and effect chains, accountable for our legal, ethical and economic responsibili es is indispensable in this regard. with the communities being advocates These rela onships involve shared values between our organisa on and people, and of our Company and the increased they materialise in our various community projects that are built on the reputa on and trust we have developed over the years. ability in acquiring new customers, While ﬁnancial performance has always especially in emerging markets. This been a very important parameter for judging corporate success, we also undertake the responsibility to look beyond proﬁts and try to leads to both societal development amend some of the anomalies that exist in our social and environmental framework. and growth in business. At Mahindra we have been sensi ve to this responsibility and have consistently addressed the 'People' and 'Planet' related issues to the best of our abili es. This responsibilityfor social capital, for value crea on, and for economic healthis a genuine and wholesome leadership skill. We see it as corporate social responsibility in its purest form. 63 MAHINDRA & SUSTAINABILITY MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 17-18 CSR HIGHLIGHTS CORPORATE HOW FY18 GOVERNANCE WE DO IT At Mahindra, we see Futurise as our pla orm At M&M, for fying the community bo omCSR Investment to augment eﬀorts in building a brighter line is as impera ve as strengthening our INR 819.7 million future, not just for us but also for the communi es where we operate. Each year, we strive to do be er to upli quality of lives through inclusive development and we are business bo om-line. Our innovative social interventions are fully equipped to create maximum impact Education where it ma ers most. designed through 'Alternative Thinking', 143,992 girls supported under Nanhi Kali Inves ng in strong, long term rela onships with all our stakeholders is crucial in ins lling derived from need-based programme; an addi onal 10,007 trust and also to gain valuable insights into assessments aligned to the opportuni es and obstacles that exist adolescent girls were supported through with each of them. Meaningful business and our long-term business the N Star Life Skills Centres social outcomes can be achieved by working strategies. This Livelihood Training & Placements together with our stakeholders towards structured approach sustained value. We take sustainability into enables us to draw 6,323 youth placed through the account, because businesses need to go on beyond the life me of the people who run it insights and develop Mahindra Pride Schools presently. Working closely with our effective initiatives stakeholders has created a closely bound, which drive positive 41,687 trained through the Mahindra Pride interconnected framework, that acts as a hedge against future risks, while also change. Classroom model func oning as an accelerator to achieve equitable business development. Environment RECOGNITION This repor ng period, through our CSR million saplings planted AND ACCOLADES 15.38 under Project Hariyali ini a ves, we have reached out to wider communi es with deeper engagements. Public Health Socially Aware Corporate for the Year 2017 by Business Standard for Zero 7,641 people received medical & diagnos c MAHINDRA CSR FOCUS Fatality Corridor Project on Mumbai Pune Expressway services through the Lifeline Express at Ratlam ES Corporate Ci zen of the Year 2017 I NC Rural Development UE by Economic Times for Nanhi Kali and TIT Integrated Watershed Management 751 farmers from 79 villages in Wardha, 3 CO NS G IR LS Programme at Damoh, MP Maharashtra beneﬁted from the INS FICCI Road Safety Analysis & Ac on comprehensive agrarian solu ons oﬀered H E A LT H OMA Award for Zero Fatality Corridor project through the Wardha Farmer Family Project on the Mumbai Pune Expressway ED 3D Water Infrastructure U C AT I O N 35,265 people beneﬁted through Integrated EN V I RONME NT Watershed Management Programme in 48 villages in Bhopal and Ha a, resulted in increased agricultural produc vity and WHO DOES IT improved living standards • Board CSR Commi ee Road Safety • CSR Council • CSR Department 14% reduc on in fatali es on the • Esops Employee Volunteering The CSR Journal Excellence Award for Agriculture & Rural Development for Programme Mumbai Pune Expressway, Maharashtra Integrated Watershed Management due to concentrated eﬀorts in the 4E's • Key Implemen ng Partners Programme at Damoh, MP of Road Safety Corporate Founda ons K C Mahindra Educa on Trust Esops Employee Volunteering Mahindra Founda on Energy and Environment Founda on Naandi Founda on Global CSR Award for Zero Fatality 69,274 volunteers contributed Other NGOs Registered not-for-proﬁts having a minimum of 3 years' experience Corridor Project on Mumbai Pune Expressway 409,078 person hours of undertaking projects on any issue 64 CSR POLICY K.C. Mahindra Education Trust The programme provides 360-degree support to girls from grade 1 to 10 including: The CSR Policy has the following objec ves: K.C. Mahindra Educa on Trust (KCMET) was set up in 1953 with a vision “To transform Ÿ 2 hours daily free remedial classes beyond Ÿ Promote a uniﬁed and strategic approach the lives of people in India through school hours, where trained tutors engage to CSR across the Company by educa on, by providing ﬁnancial assistance the girls in concept based learning incorpora ng under one 'Rise for Good' and recogni on to them, across age groups umbrella the diverse range of its Ÿ A school supplies kit consis ng of uniforms, and income strata”. personal clothing, shoes, socks, notebooks, philanthropic giving, iden fying select cons tuencies and causes to work with, KCMETs programmes include educa on sta onery, a school bag, pullover/raincoat thereby ensuring a high social impact ini a ves such as 'Scholarships and Grants' & feminine hygiene material which have enabled over 25,000 students to Ÿ Ensure an increased commitment at all Ÿ Provision of digital tablets with pre-loaded fulﬁll their educa onal goals, 'Skilling levels in the organisa on, by encouraging Programmes' which have trained over 90,000 educa onal content (both audio and video) employees to par cipate in the Company's youth and 'Project Nanhi Kali' which has for girls studying in secondary school. The CSR and give back to society in an provided educa onal support to over audio-visual content enables be er organised manner through the employee 350,000 underprivileged girls ll date. comprehension and recall. Each concept volunteering programme called Esops Through these programmes the KCMET has taught is followed by an assessment, and helped deserving and needy students rise only a er the concept is mastered the next above their limi ng circumstances. concept gets unlocked CSR GOVERNANCE Ÿ Nanhi Kali team works extensively with At M&M, sustainability is embedded into our parents and communi es to sensi se them business and is an integral part of our KEY CSR PROJECTS to become collec ve guardians of the girls business value system. Spearheaded by our and create a conducive, girl-friendly top management, our CSR governance is EDUCATION environment for every Nanhi Kali in some cascaded down to every employee across the of the most challenging areas across India company. PROJECT NANHI KALI Key project outcomes: Diligence, transparency, and ownership are Project Nanhi Kali was set up by Anand Mahindra (Chairman, Mahindra Group) in Ÿ Currently suppor ng the educa on of top priori es for The Mahindra Group's CSR 1996, to provide primary educa on to 143,992 Nanhi Kalis across 5,125 Academic council. A CSR commi ee has been underprivileged girls. Since 2005, the project Support Centres through a cadre of 4,200 cons tuted at the Board of M&M, to monitor is jointly managed by the K.C. Mahindra trained Nanhi Kali tutors the implementa on of the policy, approve CSR investments, and undertake periodical Educa on Trust and Naandi Founda on. Ÿ Project Loca ons: In 12 states Andhra assessment of the ac vi es. Pradesh, Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, U ar Pradesh, Karnataka and KEY IMPLEMENTING West Bengal PARTNERS Ÿ Digital tablets provided to 49,000 girls at It is not just about innova ve boardroom secondary school level plans, but also about implemen ng them on Ÿ Noteworthy outcomes of the project ground to make a diﬀerence. To facilitate include reduced dropout amongst girls eﬀec ve execu on of our CSR strategies, it is which is less than 10% in our project areas, important to connect with the less privileged improved learning outcomes year on year sec ons of society, iden fy their issues, and and increased a endance develop concentrated interven ons to ensure eﬃcacy where it ma ers. Ÿ Over 8,962 donors (of which 395 were corporate donors) have donated to support M&M works in tandem with several the educa on of Nanhi Kalis organisa ons, which help eﬀectuate ini a ves, monitor programmes, evaluate Ÿ Till date, 15,287 Nanhi Kalis have results, and keep the shareholders updated successfully completed their educa on ll with the status. The focus areas of these grade 10 ins tu ons are speciﬁc to their scope of work. They are: • Education • Livelihoods N STAR CENTRES In FY18, the project supported • Skill Enhancement and the educa on of Project Nanhi Kali has over 20 years of Vocational Training experience working with girls, which has • Environment and Rural Development 143,992 girls across 12 states of India provided signiﬁcant insights on how adolescent girls require special a en on beyond the educa onal support they • Health and Sanitation Of these 14,843 girls were supported by received from Project Nanhi Kali ll the age M&M Ltd., while the Mahindra Group as a • Empowering Differently-abled of 15 years. The project has set up N Star whole supported 61,284 girls making it the Individuals Centres to provide safe spaces to adolescent single largest donor of the Project. The girls within their communi es where they • Relief and Rehabilitation remaining girls are supported by 8,961 are mentored and counselled. donors (both individuals and corporates). These centres train adolescent girls in 21st Mahindra Foundation century skills such as spoken English, Investment Set up in 1969 the Mahindra Founda on ﬁnancial and computer literacy, health and focusses on providing relief to the poor, educa on and encouragement of healthy INR 234.2 mn (Please note 94.6 million is M&M's spend, nutri onal awareness, and physical ﬁtness. More importantly the N Star Centres provide sports and physical ﬁtness, medical relief and the Mahindra Group's is 234.2 million) a pla orm to the girls where they can family planning. network and team up to tackle any real-life 65 MAHINDRA & SUSTAINABILITY MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 17-18 challenges, at an age when they are GYANDEEP role in mo va ng the next genera on to especially vulnerable to underage marriage, pursue careers in science, technology, gender discrimina on and abuse. Educa on is a core focus area for CSR at engineering and math by bringing their M&M and across the country. Various everyday experiences into an AWIM IMPACT programs are implemented by employees in classroom. Class V & VI students are tandem with policy and the CSR Department. provided a pla orm that allows hands-on Currently, there are E.g. ini a ves in schools include digital experience of mechanical concepts for 73 N Star learning, career guidance, mentoring, dona on of books & sta onery, implementa on of building vehicles for road and water. The event in FY18 saw a par cipa on of Centres reaching out to abacus learning modules and overall enhancement of school infrastructure. 103,517 school students. 10,007 learners Of these, 25 N Star centres were MAHINDRA SAARTHI ABHIYAAN Ini ated in 2015, the Mahindra Saarthi sponsored by the Mahindra Group Abhiyaan encourages daughters of truck which beneﬁted 5,066 learners. drivers to aspire to study beyond Class 10. The project provides girls who have successfully completed Class 10, scholarship support for higher studies. Till date 3,408 scholarships have been awarded. BAJA PROJECT BASED LEARNING OF AUTO ENGINEERING CONCEPTS Baja is an intercollegiate design compe on organised by the Society of Automo ve Engineers (SAE). Teams of students from universi es all over the world design and build small oﬀ-road cars. SOCIAL AMBASSADORS PROGRAM As of 2018 the engine has been an unmodiﬁed Briggs & Stra on Model 19 The Social Ambassadors Program is a 'Career Vanguard engine single-cylinder with a Discovery Ini a ve' for students in municipal displacement of 305cc and power output of and low-income private schools. It is approximately 10 bhp (7.5 kW). implemented by trained Mahindra employees who enable students in 9th & The goal in Baja racing is to design, build and 10th grade to explore the 'World of Work'. race oﬀ-road vehicles that can withstand the Program-aids such as career-speciﬁc videos, harshest elements of rough terrain. Dynamic games and ac vi es are used to help events are usually held on the ﬁnal two days students discover various career op ons. of the compe on that include Accelera on, Ap tude and interest tests are carried out Hill Climb or Trac on Event, Manoeuvrability for the students by an agency with careerSpecialty Events (Rock Crawl, Mud Bog, and guidance exper se which enables students to From being an education Suspension) culmina ng into an endurance iden fy their strengths and areas of race on the second day. The event in FY18 support program, saw a par cipa on of 9,700 college development. Project Nanhi Kali has students. 134 Social Ambassadors (Volunteers) were on-boarded across the Mahindra Group and today evolved into a 3,680 students, across 32 schools in comprehensive program Mumbai, Thane, Khopoli and Nasik, that addresses a wide beneﬁted from this program in FY 18. gamut of activities that guarantee social justice to underprivileged girls. SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS M&M has set up a variety of scholarship programmes, which range from providing opportuni es to youth from low income group families to undergo diploma courses at voca onal educa onal ins tutes, to allowing meritorious students to pursue their postgraduate studies at reputed universi es A WORLD IN MOTION (AWIM) SKILLING overseas as well as pursue studies at the PROJECT BASED LEARNING OF Mahindra United World College in Pune. MECHANICAL CONCEPTS MAHINDRA PRIDE SCHOOLS (MPS) While some of these were ins tuted way A World in Mo on curriculum brings The Mahindra Pride Schools provide back in the mid 1950s, others were founded together teachers, students, and industry livelihood training to youth from socially and more recently, a proof of the Company's volunteers in an explora on of physical economically disadvantaged sec ons of con nuous eﬀorts to bring about social and science while addressing essen al society (SC/ST/OBC) to make them economic development through a literate, mathema c and scien ﬁc concepts and employable. The 90-day intensive programme enlightened and empowered populace. skills. Industry volunteers play an essen al provides domain speciﬁc training in 4 66 ver cals IT enabled services (ITES), Customer MAHINDRA PRIDE CLASSROOMS PUBLIC HEALTH Rela onship Management, Hospitality Sector In addi on to the 9 Mahindra Pride Schools, & the Automo ve Sector (Service Advisor and LIFELINE EXPRESS the Mahindra Pride Classrooms have been Service Technician). In addi on, Mahindra rolled out in a number of Polytechnics and A Hospital on Wheels catering to the medical Pride School students receive training in Arts & Science Colleges with the objec ve of needs of rural people who don't have access grooming & so skills including spoken scaling up and reaching out to a larger to quality medical facili es. Diagnos c, English, computer applica ons, values and number of students in the most cost eﬃcient medical and surgical treatment for personality development. manner. By partnering with state preven ve and cura ve interven ons governments and private educa onal e.g., cataract, cle lip palate, breast, cervical ins tu ons, classrooms in these ins tu ons & oral cancer screening and surgery, epilepsy have been dedicated to Mahindra Pride counselling and medica on and dental & Schools for skill upgrada on of the students. deafness correc on. In FY 18, 41,687 students were trained through 955 Mahindra Pride Classrooms conducted through Polytechnics and Arts & 7,641 people have received medical and Science Colleges in 9 states. From incep on diagnos c services in FY 18, through the in FY 17 ll date, 66,677 have been trained Lifeline Express at Ratlam, Madhya Pradesh. in over 1,000 Mahindra Pride Classrooms. The Mahindra Pride Classrooms provide 40120 hours of training to ﬁnal year students covering English Speaking, Life Skills, Ap tude, Interview, Group Discussion and Digital Literacy. HUNNAR Aligning with the Government's focus on skill development, various programmes in rural India and with ITI's have been taken up for Investment skill based training of youth through courses in auto sales & service, diesel generator INR 80 million training, computer training, tailoring and overall personality development courses. Currently the Mahindra Group runs 9 Addi onally, upgrada on of learning facili es Mahindra Pride Schools which are in ITI's and training of faculty will enhance located in Pune, Patna, Chandigarh, learning capaci es of students and make Hyderabad, Srinagar, Varanasi and in them 'Shop Floor' ready for today's Chennai which has 3 Mahindra Pride industries. Schools. SEHAT As of March 31st, 2018, The programme provides ambulance 26,674 youth from socially and economically services, mobile dispensaries, medical camps, cancer care, holis c HIV-AIDS, mother & disadvantaged communi es child care services, immunisa on outreach, were trained and nutri onal support, access to safe drinking water, awareness sessions, pest control 100% of these students have been services, and various infrastructure developments. placed in lucra ve jobs with reputed companies. 348,962 individuals in Maharashtra, U arakhand, 6,323 youth were trained and placed in the Telangana, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, ﬁnancial year 2017-18 alone. The largest Chandigarh, U ar Pradesh, Assam, Odisha, number of Mahindra Pride students (61%) Madhya Pradesh have beneﬁted from the have been placed in the IT sector which programme in FY 18. apart from oﬀering the highest pay packages oﬀer great prospects of career progression. Besides 100% placements, the highlight of the placement process has been a consistent increase in average star ng salary per batch to over Rs. 12,000 per month currently. The highest star ng salary per month for placements within India is above Rs. 25,000 and Rs. 45,000 per month for those who have been placed overseas. The program partners with over 200+ companies and the 4,930 beneﬁciaries have been impacted in the increasing number of repeat recruiters bear states of Rajasthan, U ar Pradesh, Madhya tes mony to the quality of training provided Pradesh, Haryana, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra by the Mahindra Pride Schools. through various programmes. 67 MAHINDRA & SUSTAINABILITY MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 17-18 SWACHH BHARAT ABHIYAN GREEN GAURDIANS ENVIRONMENT Aligned with the Government's Clean India Various environment friendly programmes Campaign, the programme focusses on PROJECT HARIYALI have been taken up under the banner, cleanliness drives and construc on of toilets. promo ng green energy through The Mahindra Hariyali programme is yet collabora on with IITM's (Ins tute of another ini a ve that has been highly Technology, Madras) Centre for Ba ery successful due to the employee volunteering Opera on (COE). Through the collabora on, pla orm. In FY 18 Mahindra and Mahindra IITM is focused on research and development Ltd. planted 149,019 saplings in the states of a 'highly eﬃcient ba ery for automobiles'. of Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, U arakhand, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Promo ng e-mobility services for the Rajasthan, Chandigarh and Madhya Pradesh. specially-abled through the Electric Taxi Service that is two-fold; green transport and Mahindra Group planted customised and user-friendly taxis for 15,38,172 saplings in FY18 specially-abled people. Also, promo ng use of biogas produced from food waste at the Mahindra Research Valley, Chennai and a leprosy hospital in Maharashtra. 670 toilets Direct impact to have been constructed in FY 18 beneﬁ ng 2,900 131,342 people beneﬁciaries with a reach across the states of Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Maharashtra. This was implemented in the states of Maharashtra, U arakhand, Telangana, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Chandigarh, U ar RURAL DEVELOPMENT Pradesh, Assam, Odisha, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal. VILLAGE SOCIAL TRANSFORMATION MISSION JEEVANDAAN Suppor ng holis c development of 1,000 While the Blood Dona on programme villages in Maharashtra to plug primarily includes augmen ng the Blood ARAKU PROJECT developmental gaps and collec vely partake Banks's reserves, providing 100% of blood Tree planta on to increase green cover and in na on building. requirements for people suﬀering from improve livelihood of farmers. thalassemia is a focussed programme. GRAM VIKAS In FY 18 the project planted Integrated Village Development including The programme reached out to 9,806 1.5 million trees This CSR grant enabled the plan ng of water management through revival / reconstruc on of water structures and beneﬁciaries in Maharashtra, U arakhand, access to Government schemes like the Telangana, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Chandigarh, U ar Pradesh, Assam, Odisha, 1,094,724 trees Pradhan Mantri Ujwala Yojana. Madhya Pradesh. in the tribal Araku valley belt 33,701 beneﬁciaries and across NAVDRUSHTI EHS+ CENTRE Maharashtra & Telangana The programme aims to create ZERO Located in Pune, Maharashtra, the India Cataract Villages, which includes awareness EHS+ Centre is housed within Symbiosis KRISHI MITR drives, eye tes ng, distribu on of spectacles Interna onal University's renowned Symbiosis Rural development programme aimed at and cataract surgeries for deprived sec ons Ins tute of Interna onal Business (SIIB). The improving income genera on for farming of society. Center oﬀers world-class training on various communi es. Environment Health & Safety (EHS) topics The programme had that address everything from the basic The programme includes micro nutrient soil 8,825 beneﬁciaries in Maharashtra, U arakhand, fundamentals of EHS to niche topics speciﬁc to par cular industries. All courses are tes ng, advisory services, drip irriga on, agri extension services, dairy farming, permaculture farming, infrastructure tailored to meet the needs of Indian factories Telangana, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, and industries. The Company has partnered development and capacity building resul ng Chandigarh, Madhya Pradesh. with Ins tute for Sustainable Communi es in improvement in agricultural produc vity. (ISC) in this ini a ve. 23,930 M&M through the Mahindra Founda on has provided funding support for se ng 2,300+ have been trained since 2015 beneﬁciaries across Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, West Bengal and Odisha. up of a Head and Neck Cancer Ins tute (which is a Public Private Partnership with BMC and CanCare Trust) along with suppor ng ini a ves to provide care to cri cal pa ents suﬀering from cancer and other life-threatening illnesses through the Karo Trust and Palcare. 68 ESOPS EMPLOYEE SOCIAL OPTIONS Esops, Mahindra's ongoing Employee Volunteering Programme, is a set of volunteering op ons Esops extends across most states in India. for social work, which are created and implemented exclusively by the employees, based on the Every year, Esops has seen a consistent rise in needs of the communi es in and around their areas of opera on. For a Mahindra employee, it the number of volunteers and the spirit of implies looking beyond oneself to help the less fortunate. It means sharing one's skills to make employee par cipa on at M&M. the society healthier, cleaner, greener, more literate and, hence, more sustainable. In FY 18, A company's commitment to CSR is posi vely linked to the employees' commitment to the Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. organisa on. When employees are able to ﬁnd greater meaning in their work, it helps create a Esops volunteers: 20,272 posi ve impact on their professional a tude toward the company and increases their Esops person hours: 148,112 produc vity greatly. The Esops volunteers devise yearly strategies, design projects, execute them at the ground level, Mahindra Group and monitor them closely to ensure desired results. In some projects, our volunteers also Esops volunteers: 69,274 engage their family members in the numerous ac vi es. Esops person hours: 409,078 FROM ENGAGEMENTS TO OUTCOME We constantly align the scope and scale of our Esop programmes to the iden ﬁed community priori es. Our social welfare ini a ves go beyond just regular meaningful engagements to consistent measurable outcomes. Our employee volunteers are extremely passionate and enthusias c in their approach towards their contribu ons to societal welfare. The Esops Awards Compe on was held on 9th August 2017 at the Group Corporate Oﬃce WINNERS in Worli. It was a day of healthy compe on, excitement and intellectually s mula ng Non-Factory Loca on dialogue regarding Corporate Social Responsibility and employee volunteering projects taken up across various sectors in the Mahindra Group. Mahindra Susten Pvt. Ltd. for their eﬀorts in landmark changes in This year, we received 23 applica ons from both factory and non-factory loca ons. rural educa on. The jury comprised of dis nguished personali es from the social and developmental Factory Loca on Joint Winners sectors. They included Ms. Sanjna Kapoor, co-founder of Junoon, a theatre and arts organisa on, Mr. Shishir Joshi, CEO of the non-proﬁt Mumbai First and Professor Surinder AFS, Auto Division, Igatpuri Jaswal, Ph. D (London University), Deputy Director and Dean, Research and Development, for plas c bo le free environment and TISS. The jury showed great interest in the projects undertaken by the shortlisted Esops AFS, Auto Division, Nashik teams. An invigora ng ques on and answer session a er the presenta ons le the jury for working with thalassemia members in a tough spot to decide the winners. aﬀected children 69 MAHINDRA & SUSTAINABILITY MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 17-18 C U LT U R A L CONTRIBUTION Cultural ac vi es bring people together to celebrate a common cause or interest. Bringing people together, across backgrounds, is something we enjoy par cipa ng in. It is with this sen ment in mind, that we regularly host events that we are extremely proud of and hold close to our hearts. Mahindra Excellence in Theatre (META) The week-long fes val, designed to showcase the best of Indian theatre, honours all aspects of the art form including playwri ng, set design, light and costume design, direc on and performance. This year too, META was a resounding success amongst Delhi thespians and theatre lovers. The META Secretariat received over 300 entries, from 12 Indian states, and as a ﬁrst this year, the entries were handled digitally. A er selec ons, the audiences enjoyed the works of over 160 ar stes, in 5 languages, of which 10 were shortlisted for the awards in 13 categories. META 2017 also conferred the 'Life me Achievement Award' upon veteran Marathi theatre exponent, Arun Kakade. Mahindra Blues Mahindra Sanatkada Mahindra Festival Lucknow Festival Kabira Festival The Mahindra Blues Fes val was back with a Aimed at bringing back the famed Lucknowi A ﬂedgling fes val in our oeuvre, the bang this year and has truly earned the tle tehzeeb or culture, the Mahindra Sanatkada Mahindra Kabira Fes val's second edi on, of the Biggest Blues Fes val of India. Held at Lucknow Fes val is a fair celebra ng the held at Varanasi is also a pla num rated the iconic Mehboob Studios, in its eighth historic and culturally rich city. The 5-day green ini a ve. The fes val espouses the magniﬁcent year, the fes val featured blues fes val is a celebra on of heritage, cuisine, art secular teachings of the Poet Saint Kabir, and legends John Mayall, Coco Montoya and and cra , held at Baradari, a building aspires to be a beacon of love and hope in Walter Wolfman Washington. The fes val speciﬁcally constructed by the last Nawab of the poet's city of birth. also played host to Canadian blues Lucknow, Wajid Ali Shah. Cap va ng musical performances started at powerhouse, Layla Zoe and Mumbai's very This year's theme for the fes val was Francisi dawn, with the sunrise proving to be an own Blackstratblues. Awadhi Ta'alluqaat (The French Connec on ethereal backdrop. The fes val also featured Just like last year, the fes val was again with Awadh). At the fes val, this theme came interes ng talks and heritage walks around conferred a Yale pla num rated green event to life through an exhibi on of rare eighteenththe historic city. Evenings concluded with highligh ng our ongoing endeavours to be century pain ngs from all over the world, more music and soul s rring poetry readings. sustainable in all our ini a ves. lectures on the theme by eminent historians, some of the ﬁnest French ﬁlms, a jazz performance, heritage walks that highlighted the French connec on with Lucknow and a delectable array of French cuisine. 70 1 CASE STUDY NANHI KALI 2 CASE STUDY ROAD SAFETY Wrestling fate Zero Fatality for freedom Corridor The hard-hi ng reality of our The 'Zero Fatality Corridor' project helmed by NGO, SaveLIFE Founda on (SLF) in country is that many young girls collabora on with the Maharashtra State Road Development Corpora on (MSRDC), sacriﬁce their childhood and are was ini ated by Mahindra to address the high number of road accidents and deaths made to balance household work on the Mumbai-Pune Expressway. and school work. With the Nanhi Kali project, we From 2010 to 2015, the Expressway saw 4,234 accidents and 1,323 deaths. come across many girls whose Ever since the interven ons by the project have taken root, these ﬁgures have fallen stories we are able to change. One by 30% in 2018 in comparison to 2017. As per SLF's research, the accidents are linked such example is the story of Amruta to gaps in the Expressway's infrastructure and opera on. Yadav, who lives in Mumbai with her parents and 3 siblings. A hard worker at home and at school, Amruta became a Nanhi Kali when she was in 4th grade. With the encouragement of her coach Babasaheb Shinde, Amruta also took up wrestling with great interest and vigour. She has trained against odds, including the threat of being married early, to become a compe ve wrestler taking on opponents in the 44 kg category even though she was underweight. Her determina on has won her accolades and two gold medals at state level tournaments. Making her parents, coach and teachers proud, Amruta con nues to shoulder all her responsibili es with the spirit of a true ﬁghter A 360° interven on based on the 4E's of 'Safety Below 80' is the awareness while she prepares for the Na onal Road Safety viz engineering, emergency campaign for the Expressway as it was Level Wrestling Championship. Her care, enforcement and educa on began realised that most accidents are results dream is to one day make her and 15 infrastructural risk factors in over of excessive speeding and going above country proud by winning the 2,000 spots were iden ﬁed. Since the set limit of 80 km/hour is the main Olympics, and with the constant August 2016, the project began gaining cause of an accident and fatality. support of her coach and Project momentum and over a thousand of Nanhi Kali, Amruta's conﬁdence is these spots have been ﬁxed. The campaign saw the placing of on the Rise every day. real crashed cars on toll plazas to Other risk factors that were iden ﬁed included exposed bridge pillars which draw a en on to the possible have been padded with crash barriers to consequences of going over the reduce the impact of a crash, guardrails speed limit. and improved signages. Factors as basic as large ﬂowerpots on the dividers were Addi onally, radio campaigns aimed at also iden ﬁed as road accident causes explaining causes of accidents and and rec ﬁed. remedial ac ons for truckers and motorists were advocated. Quicker Emergency Response was also highlighted as a factor that needed to Total Investment be addressed in order to increase survival chances of vic ms. The response and rescue opera ons on the INR 35 million Expressway is now far quicker and ﬁve IMPACT '108' ambulances are sta oned at diﬀerent points. 14% reduction Addi onally, a 3,500 square foot in fatali es in FY 18 over FY 17 MSRDC trauma centre near Talegaon 1,224 drivers trained in FY 18 with has been set up and bids for its 3,247 trained since 2015 opera on have begun. 71 MAHINDRA & SUSTAINABILITY MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 17-18 3 CASE STUDY HARIYALI 4 CASE STUDY ENVIRONMENT Plan ng Since Making a Decade Sustainability Project Hariyali was started with the intent to plant one million trees. 10 years on, and Personal we have exceeded that calcula on with 13 million trees today! To mark the special On the occasion of World event, the thirteenth million tree, a Rudraksha sapling was planted at Worli by the Environment Day, Mahindra Honorable Chief Minister of Maharashtra, Shri Devendra Fadnavis. employees con nued with their tradi on of “making sustainability personal”. M&M organised LED light kiosks across 18 of our loca ons pan India, under the UJALA scheme. As per the scheme, 3 products were made available for a 50% lesser cost that included 9w LED bulbs, 20w LED tube lights and 50w 5-star energy eﬃcient ceiling fans. The response was overwhelming across the loca ons with a total of 24,000 LED bulbs, 4,000 LED tube lights and 1,500 ceiling fans being sold in 3 days. This switch to energy eﬃcient appliances will see an overall The speakers at the event included the Chief Minister, Mr. Anand Mahindra and reduc on of energy consump on. Mr. Rajeev Dubey. Some snippets from their speeches are: As part of our mission to give We are in the midst of a man14 lakh units per annum Maharashtra a new green cover, made crisis and it is our duty to energy cost saving per annum we plan to plant 50 crore trees in strengthen nature's hand to the next two years and thus plan help tackle climate change and INR 1crore to take the state's cover to 33%. meet the commitments of the reduc on of carbon emission by We intend to plant fruit trees to Paris Agreement. The not just aid tree planta on, but also provide alterna ve livelihoods Mahindra Hariyali programme forms part of our contribu on 1,167 tonnes annually to the farmers. to the cause. Over 39,000 employees and their Shri Devendra Fadnavis Anand Mahindra family members par cipated in Honourable Chief Minister of Maharashtra Chairman, Mahindra Group the Sustainability Engagement Compe on. From transforming an arid hilltop in Nashik to helping Adivasi farmers in Par cipants were asked to submit the Araku Valley supplement their income through fruit trees, and making electricity bills between April and a diﬀerence in drought-prone Vidharbha, this programme has had a farSeptember 2016, and their reaching impact which will be felt for genera ons to come. consump on for the same period in 2017 post implementa on of Rajeev Dubey Group President (HR & Corporate Services) & CEO (A er Market Sector) sustainable electricity usage. Five Member of the Group Execu ve Board, Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. winners with lowest consump on numbers were rewarded by having their electricity bills paid for a Total Investment whole year. INR 53.9 million IMPACT In FY18 1.5 million trees were planted through this project. This included 1.09 million trees in the tribal Araku valley Further, the Auto Farm & Agro Sector belt. Besides providing green cover this planted 1,33,619 trees. Loca on ini a ve provided livelihood support to Maharashtra, U arakhand, Telangana, tribal farmers, as the fruit bearing trees Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Chandigarh, provided shade to the coﬀee planta ons. Madhya Pradesh & Andhra Pradesh 72 ANNEXURES ACRONYMS ABCI Associa on of Business Communicators of India CGC Corporate Governance Cell ACE Awards for Customer Excellence CFC Chloroﬂuorocarbon ACETECH Architecture, Construc on, Engineering Technology CFL Compact Fluorescent Lamp AD Automo ve Division CFO Chief Financial Oﬃcer AGC Avaya Global Connect CFT Cross Func onal Team AIDS Acquired Immunodeﬁciency Syndrome CGSF Common Guaranteed Safety Programme AIMA-IOCL All India Management Associa onCLHA Children Living with HIV AIDS Indian Oil Corpora on Limited CII Confedera on of Indian Industry ABS An -lock Braking System CIO Chief Informa on Oﬃcer ANM Auxiliary Nurse Midwife CITU Centre of Indian Trade Unions AT&T American Telephone & Telegraph CMO Chief Marke ng Oﬃcer ASSOCHAM Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India CMTT Club Mahindra Tusker Trail BCL Business Con nuity Leader CMVR Central Motor Vehicle Rules BCMS Business Con nuity Management Systems CMAI Communica on Mul media and Infrastructure BCP Business Con nuity Plan CNG Compressed Natural Gas BIA Business Impact Analysis CO Carbon Monoxide BKS Bhara ya Kamgar Sena CRISIL Credit Ra ng & Informa on Services of India Ltd. BMW Bavarian Motor Works CRM Customer Rela onship Management BPO Business Process Outsourcing CSR Corporate Social Responsibility BPI Business Psychologists Interna onal CTO Chief Technical Oﬃcer BR Business Responsibility CV Commercial Vehicles BS Bri sh Standards D&B Dun & Bradstreet BSE Bombay Stock Exchange DNA Data Not Available BSS Business Support Systems DSIR Department of Science and Industrial Research BS-III Bharat Stagethree EBD Electronic Brakeforce Distribu on BS-IV Bharat Stagefour ECM Energy Conserva on Measures BT Bri sh Telecommunica ons ECEM Enterprise Carbon and Energy Management C2 CRDe 2-cylinder Common Rail Diesel Engine EDGE Enterprise Driving Growth & Excellence CO2 Carbon dioxide EDC Engine Development Centre 3R Reduce/Recycle/Reuse EFI Employers Federa on of India CH4 Methane ELV End of Life Vehicle CAE Computer Aided Engineering EDMC East Delhi Municipal Corpora on CCI Clinton Climate Ini a ve EPA Environmental Protec on Agency (USA) CDP Carbon Disclosure Project EPC Engineering, Procurement, and Construc on CED Cathodic Electrodeposi on ESCo Energy Services Company CEO Chief Execu ve Oﬃcer ER Employee Rela on 73 MAHINDRA & SUSTAINABILITY MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 17-18 ERP Enterprise Resource Planning HPCL Hindustan Petroleum Corpora on Limited ESI Employment Status Indicator HR Human Resources ESP Electronic Stability Program HRD Human Resource Development ESIC Employee State Insurance Corpora on IBA Interna onal Bird Area Esops Employee Social Op on Scheme ICAI Ins tute of Chartered Accountants of India ETP Eﬄuent Treatment Plant ICRISAT Interna onal Crops Research Ins tute for the Semi-Arid Tropics EU European Union ICT Informa on, Communica on, and Technology EURO IV European emission standardsFour IDC Interna onal Data Corpora on EURO V European emission standardsFive IGBC Indian Green Building Council EVP Execu ve Vice President IHECT Interna onal Centre for Hydrogen EVP Employee Value Proposi on Energy Technologies FAPCCI Federa on of Andhra Pradesh Chambers IIT Indian Ins tute of Technology of Commerce IIMM Indian Ins tute of Materials Management FD Farm Division ILO Interna onal Labour Organiza on FE-EVI Financial ExpressEmergent Ventures Interna onal IMC Indian Merchant Chamber FICCI Federa on of Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry IMDS Interna onal Material Data System FIDC Finance Industry Development Council IMS Integrated Management System FIFA Federal Interna onal Football Associa on INR Indian Rupee FMS Feedback Management System IRADe Integrated Research & Ac on for Development FTM First Time Managers ISO Interna onal Organiza on for Standardiza on g/hph Grams per horse power hours IT Informa on Technology GDP Gross Domes c Product ITDP Integrated Talent Development Process GDR Global Depositary Receipts ITES Informa on Technology Enabled Service GHG Greenhouse Gas JAU Junagadh Agricultural University GJ Giga Joules JCMM Jagdish Chandra Mahindra Memorial GEB Group Execu ve Board JNNSM Jawaharlal Nehru Na onal Solar Mission GMC Group Management Cadre KCMET K.C. Mahindra Educa onal Trust GoB Government of Bihar KPO Knowledge Process Outsourcing GPS Global Posi oning System KL Kilo Litres GPMD Global Program for Management Development LBSIMT Lal Bahadur Shastri Ins tute of Management and Technology GRI Global Repor ng Ini a ve LCV Light Commercial Vehicle GRIHA Green Ra ng for Integrated Habitat Assessment LEED Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design GSM Global System for Mobile Communica ons LED Light Emi ng Diode H2O Water LDO Light Diesel Oil HCFC Hydrochloroﬂuorocarbon L&D Learning and Development HCNG Hydrogen Compressed Natural Gas LPG Liqueﬁed Petroleum Gas HHD Hand Held Device LSPV Load Sensing Propor oning Valve HOC Heat of Compression LTL Learning to Lead HP Horse Power 74 MACE Mahindra Consul ng Engineers MUSCO Mahindra Ugine Steel Company Limited MAITS Mahindra All India Talent Scholarships MVML Mahindra Vehicle Manufacturers Limited MBCSPL Mahindra Business & Consul ng Services Pvt. Ltd. MWC Mahindra World City MCD Municipal Corpora on of Delhi MWCDL Mahindra World City Developers Limited MCL Mahindra Composites Ltd. MWCJL Mahindra World City Jaipur Limited MD Managing Director NAAQS Na onal Ambient Air Quality Standards META Mahindra Excellence in Theatre Award NAPCC Na onal Ac on Plan on Climate Change MFCSL Mahindra First Choice Services Limited NASSCOM Na onal Associa on of So ware & Services Companies MFCWL Mahindra First Choice Wheels Limited NATRIP Na onal Automo ve Tes ng & MFL Mahindra Forgings Limited R&D Infrastructure Project MFUSA Mahindra Founda on USA NBFC Non-Banking Financial Companies MGD Million Gallons Per Day NBC Na onal Building Code MGTL Mahindra Gujarat Tractor Limited NDTV New Delhi Television Limited MGTPL Mahindra Gears & Transmissions Private Limited NGO Non-Governmental Organisa on MHIL Mahindra Hinoday Industries Limited NHRDN Na onal Human Resource Development Network MHRIL Mahindra Holidays & Resorts India Limited NIS Not in Scope MIBL Mahindra Insurance Brokers Ltd. NITIE Na onal Ins tute of Industrial Engineering MIDC Maharashtra Industrial Development Corpora on NMACS Networking, Mobility Analy cs, Cloud & Security MIL Mahindra Intertrade Limited NOx Oxides of Nitrogen MILES Mahindra Integrated Logis cs Execu on System NOA Na onal Outsourcing Associa on MIQ Mahindra Ins tute of Quality NRI Non-Residents of India MLDL Mahindra Lifespace Developers Limited NSE Na onal Stock Exchange MLL Mahindra Logis cs Limited NSDF Na onal Sports Development Fund MMDC Mahindra Management Development Centre NVG-SEE Na onal Voluntary Guidelines on Social, MMFSL Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services Limited Environmental and Economic Responsibili es of Business MN 25 Mahindra Navistar 25000 kg OECD Organisa on for Economic Coopera on MNAL Mahindra Navistar Automo ves Limited & Development MNC Mul na onal Company OBD On Board Diagnos c MNEPL Mahindra Navistar Engines Private Limited OCB Overseas Corporate Bodies MOU Memorandum of Understanding ODS Ozone Deple ng Substance MPD Magne c Products Division OEM Original Equipment Manufacturer MPS Mahindra Pride School OTM Oracle Transport Management MPTS Mahindra People Transport Solu ons OSS Opera ons Support Systems MPUAT Maharana Pratap University of Agriculture PAT Proﬁt A er Tax & Technology PAU Punjab Agricultural University MQS Mahindra Quality System Pb Lead MReva Mahindra Reva Electric Vehicles Pvt. Ltd. PFOS Perﬂourooctane Sulfonates MRHFL Mahindra Rural Housing Finance Ltd. PLHA People Living with HIV/AIDS MRV Mahindra Research Valley POP Plaster of Paris MSat Mahindra Satyam PRCI Public Rela ons Council of India MSB Mahindra Spares Business PWD Persons with Disability MSOLAR Mahindra Solar One Pvt. Ltd. QCD Quality Cost and Delivery MSSSPL Mahindra Sanyo Special Steel Pvt. Ltd. QCFI Quality Circle Forum of India MTWL Mahindra Two Wheelers Limited 75 MAHINDRA & SUSTAINABILITY MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 17-18 RA Risk Assessment SYMC Ssangyong Motor Company Limited RCI Resort Condominium Interna onal SYSTECH Systems & Technologies Sector RBI Reserve Bank of India TCF Trim Chassis Final RIICO Rajasthan State Industrial Development TechM Tech Mahindra & Investment Corpora on Limited TMF Tech Mahindra Founda on RMC Ready Mix Concrete TIDCO Tamil Nadu Industrial Development Corpora on ROI Return On Investment TNAU Tamil Nadu Agricultural University ROHS Restric on on Hazardous substances TPM Total Produc ve Maintenance RRR Rate and Reusability Rate TTP Ter ary Treatment Plant RSPM Respirable Suspended Par culate Ma er UAE United Arab Emirates R&D Research & Development UK United Kingdom SAP System Applica on Products and Data Base UNEP United Na ons Environment Programme SAM So ware Analysis and Management UNGC United Na ons Global Compact SCM Supply Chain Management UNIDO United Na ons Industrial Development Organiza on SEZ Special Economic Zone US United States SEBI Securi es and Exchange Board of India USA United States of America SIAM Society of Indian Automobiles Manufacturers USD United States Dollars SIBM Symbiosis Ins tute of Business Management UV U lity Vehicle SLP Senior Leaders Program UWC United World College SLT Senior Leadership Team VAVE Value Analysis and Value Engineering SOx Oxides of Sulphur VC Vice-Chairman SO2 Sulphur Dioxide VECV Volvo-Eicher Commercial Vehicles SPM Suspended Par culate Ma er VFD Variable Frequency Drives SRI Solar Reﬂectance Index VOC Vola le Organic Compound STAT Sta s c WBCSD World Business Council for Sustainable Development STAMP Structural Tes ng Analysis & Measurement of Projects WOW Wet On Wet STP Sewage Treatment Plant WRI World Resources Ins tute SUV Sports U lity Vehicle 76 GLOSSARY Biodiesel End-to-End Supply Chain Solu ons Biodiesel refers to a non-petroleum based diesel fuel consis ng of End-to-End Supply Chain Solu ons is the management of a network short chain alkyl esters, made by transesteriﬁca on of vegetable oil. of interconnected businesses involved in the ul mate provision of product and service packages required by end customers. Supply Biofuels chain management spans all movement and storage of raw materials, Solid, liquid or gas fuel derived from recently dead biological material. work-in-process inventory, and ﬁnished goods from point of origin to point of consump on. Carbon Dioxide Equivalent (CDE) and Equivalent Carbon Dioxide (CO2e) EURO IV or EURO V Standards are two related but dis nct measures for describing how much reduc on of pollutant emissions from light vehicles. The European global warming a given type and amount of greenhouse gas may Union is introducing stricter limits on pollutant emissions from light cause, using the func onally equivalent amount or concentra on of road vehicles, par cularly for emissions of nitrogen par culates and carbon dioxide (CO2) as the reference Equivalent CO2 (CO2e) is the oxides. The Regula on also includes measures concerning access to concentra on of CO2 that would cause the same level of radia ve informa on on vehicles and their components and the possibility of forcing as a given type and concentra on of greenhouse gas. introducing tax incen ves. C2 CRDe Technology G4 Guidelines Two cylinder, common rail diesel engine technology stands for are an update and comple on of the third genera on of GRI's Common Rail Direct Fuel Injec on engine. It is the latest state-ofprocess guidance on how to deﬁne the content of a sustainability the-art technology for diesel engines and suits passenger cars as well report. as commercial vehicles. GRIHA Cer ﬁca on Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) GRIHA ra ng system consists of 34 criteria categorised under various is an organisa on that works with shareholders and corpora ons to sec ons such as site selec on and site planning, conserva on and disclose the greenhouse gas emissions of major corpora ons. M&M eﬃcient u lisa on of resources, building opera on and maintenance, Limited is a signatory for CDP. and innova on points. Eight of these 34 criteria are mandatory, four are partly mandatory, while the rest are op onal. Each criterion has a Chlorodiﬂuoromethane (Diﬂuoromonochloromethane) number of points assigned to it. It means that a project intending to is a Hydrochloroﬂuorocarbon (HCFC) commonly used in air meet the criterion would qualify for the points. Diﬀerent levels of condi oning applica ons. cer ﬁca on (one star to ﬁve stars) are awarded based on the number of points earned. The minimum points required for cer ﬁca on is 50. CRISIL Level 1 ra ng that indicates the company's capability with regard to The Green Home Ra ng system by corporate governance and value crea on for all stakeholders is IGBC Indian Green Building Council the highest. The green home ra ng system by Indian Green Building Council (IGBC) is India's ﬁrst, and is exclusively designed for the residen al COPC-2000® CSP Global Standard Cer ﬁca on sector. Diﬀerent levels of cer ﬁca ons such as Cer ﬁed, Silver, Gold The COPC-2000® CSP Standard is a Performance Management and Pla num are awarded to a project in recogni on of its green Framework designed to deliver results in Customer Service Provider commitment. (CSP) contact centre environments including Call Centres, E-Commerce Centres and Transac on Processing Opera ons. ISO 27001 Global Cer ﬁca on ISO/IEC 27001 is the only auditable interna onal standard which Dichlorodiﬂuoromethane (R-12) deﬁnes the requirements for an Informa on Security Management usually sold under the brand name Freon-12, is a chloroﬂuorocarbon System (ISMS). The standard is designed to ensure the selec on of halomethane, commonly known as CFC, used as a refrigerant and adequate and propor onate security controls. aerosol spray propellant. (R-22)is a colourless gas be er known as HCFC-22, R-22. Earlier it was commonly used as a propellant and in ISO-50001 air condi oning applica on. These applica ons are being phased out ISO, Standard 50001 speciﬁes requirements for establishing, its manufacturing was banned in the US and many countries in 1994 implemen ng, maintaining and improving an energy management due to concerns about damage to the ozone layer. system, whose purpose is to enable an organisa on to follow a systema c approach in achieving con nual improvement of energy ECOTEL® cer ﬁca on performance, including energy eﬃciency, energy use and ECOTEL® is a pres gious environmental cer ﬁca on designed by consump on. HVS' Sustainability Services speciﬁcally for the hospitality sector. This cer ﬁca on recognises outstanding achievement along the triple ISO 9001:2000 bo omline: environmental, social and ﬁscal parameters. Quality Management Systems direc ve that provides a number of requirements which an organisa on needs to fulﬁl if it is to achieve customer sa sfac on through consistent products and services which meet customer expecta ons. 77 MAHINDRA & SUSTAINABILITY MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 17-18 ISO 14001:2004 Scope I interna onal speciﬁca on for an Environmental Management System Scope 1 greenhouse gas emissions occur from sources that are (EMS). It speciﬁes requirements for establishing an environmental owned or controlled by a company, such as combus on facili es policy, determining environmental aspects and impacts of (e.g.: boilers, furnaces, burners, turbines, heaters, incinerators, products/ac vi es/services, planning environmental objec ves and engines, ﬂares, etc.), combus on of fuels in transporta on (e.g.: cars, measurable targets, implementa on and opera on of programmes to buses, planes, ships, barges, trains, etc.) and physical or chemical meet objec ves and targets, checking and correc ve ac on and processes (e.g.: in cement manufacturing, cataly c cracking in management review. petrochemical processing, aluminium smel ng, etc.). ISO/TS 16949 Scope II quality management system requirements for the design and Scope 2 GHG emissions are from the genera on by another party of development, produc on and, when relevant, installa on and service electricity that is purchased and consumed by the company. This is of automo ve-related products. described as purchased electricity for the purposes of the GHG Protocol. ISO/TS 16949:2002 quality management systems – Par cular requirements for the Scope III applica on of ISO 9001:2000 for automo ve produc on and relevant Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions, including those associated service part organisa ons. with employee travel, supply chain, leased assets, outsourced ac vi es, use of products and waste disposal. The kilowa -hour (symbolised kWh) is a unit of energy equivalent to one kilowa of SEI-CMMI level 5 power expended for one hour of me. kWh is not a standard unit in A Level 5 CMMI ra ng provides the highest recogni on to an any formal system, but it is commonly used in electrical applica ons. organisa on's so ware and systems engineering processes. OHSAS 18001:2004 Solar Reﬂectance Index an Occupa onal Health and Safety Assessment Series for health and Solar Reﬂectance is the frac on of the incident solar energy which is safety management systems. It is intended to help organisa ons to reﬂected by the surface in ques on. The best standard technique for control occupa onal health and safety risks. It was developed in its determina on uses spectrophotometric measurements, with an response to widespread demand for a recognised standard against integra ng sphere to determine the reﬂectance at each diﬀerent which to be cer ﬁed and assessed. wavelength. The average reﬂectance is then determined by an averaging process, using a standard solar spectrum. This method is OHSAS 18001:2007 documented by ASTM (American Society for Tes ng and Materials). Managing health and safety (OH&S) issues in the workplace represents an enormous challenge due to varying human nature, Special Economic Zone (SEZ) skills set, process complexity & local culture and have implica ons for SEZ is a geographical region that has economic laws that are more everyone at the workplace. Eﬀec vely managing these issues means liberal than a country's typical economic laws. taking account not only of legal requirements, but also the well-being of your personnel in the organisa on. USGBC LEED Cer ﬁca on LEED Professional Accredita on dis nguishes building professionals ODS with the knowledge and skills to successfully steward the LEED Ozone deple ng substances (ODSs) are those substances which cer ﬁca on process. deplete the ozone layer and are widely used in refrigerators, air condi oners, ﬁre ex nguishers, in dry cleaning, as solvents for United Na ons Global Compact cleaning, electronic equipment and as agricultural fumigants. is a framework for businesses that are commi ed to aligning their opera ons and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in Mahindra Quality Way the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and an an assessment by external na onal and interna onal experts of corrup on. M&M Limited is a signatory to UNGC. Mahindra's quality policy, systems, procedures and performance against world-class standards to iden fy: strengths, opportuni es for improvement, scoring proﬁle for priori sing improvements. NAAQS the clean air act which was last amended requires EPA to set Na onal Ambient Air Quality Standards for pollutants considered harmful to public health and the environment. h p://epa.gov/air/criteria.html NASSCOM a not-for-proﬁt was set up in 1988 to facilitate business and trade in so ware and services and to encourage advancement of research in so ware technology. 78 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT Scope and approach this Assurance Statement. DNV GL expressly disclaims any liability or coMahindra & Mahindra Limited Automo ve Division & Farm Division responsibility for any decision a person or an en ty may make based on (CIN: L65990MH1945PLC004558; herea er referred as 'M&M' or 'the this Assurance Statement. Company') commissioned DNV GL Business Assurance India Private Limited ('DNV GL') to undertake independent assurance of Basis of our opinion sustainability disclosures in the Company's Sustainability Report 2017 A mul -disciplinary team of sustainability and assurance specialists 18 in its printed format (the 'Report'). Our responsibility in performing performed assurance at Corporate oﬃce and selected sites of M&M. this work is regarding veriﬁca on of sustainability performance We undertook the following ac vi es: disclosed in the Report, and in accordance with the agreed scope of work with the management of the Company. The intended users of this • Review of the non-ﬁnancial sustainability disclosures disclosed in assurance statement are the management of the Company. Our this Report; assurance engagement was planned and carried out during November • Desk review of performance data submi ed for all plants of M&M; 2017 to August 2018. • Review of the processes for gathering and consolida ng the Our scope of work was the veriﬁca on of the qualita ve and performance data and, for a sample, checking the data thru desk quan ta ve informa on on sustainability performance disclosed in the review and onsite reviews; Report covering Economic, Environmental and Social performance of • Review of process of data consolida on at site and corporate level; the ac vi es undertaken by the Company over the Repor ng period 1st April'2017 to 31st March'2018. The organiza onal boundary, as set out • Review of approach to Materiality determina on and Stakeholder by M&M consists of 14 Manufacturing plants; 5 Warehouses, Corporate engagement and recent outputs although we have no direct oﬃce, 1 Research & Development facility. engagement with stakeholders; We performed our work using DNV GL's assurance methodology • Review of informa on provided to us by the Company on its VeriSustainTM, which is based on our professional experience, repor ng and management processes related to the iden ﬁed interna onal assurance best prac ce including Interna onal Standard material topics; on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 Revised* and GRI guidelines. • Interviews with selected members of leadership team, and senior This veriﬁca on provides a limited level of assurance as per VeriSustain. managers responsible for management of sustainability issues and We understand that the reported ﬁnancial data and related informa on review of selected evidence to support issues discussed. We were are based on disclosures from M&M Annual Report for year ending 31st free to choose interviewees and interviewed those with overall March' 2018, which are subject to a separate independent statutory responsibility for the programmes to deliver the targets for medium audit process. We did not review ﬁnancial disclosures and data in the and long-term Vision, Mission and milestones; Sustainability Report and Annual Report 2017-18 as it was not within the • Site visits were conducted in M&M Corporate Oﬃce at Mumbai, scope of our work. Automo ve Division sites at Kandivali, Farm Division sites at We planned and performed our work to obtain the evidence we Kandivali, Swaraj Division -Plant1 at Mohali, Research & considered necessary to provide a basis for our assurance opinion Development facility at Chennai to review processes and systems related to non-ﬁnancial sustainability disclosures in this Report. We are for aggrega on of site level sustainability data and implementa on providing a 'limited level' of assurance and hence no external of management approach. The sites we visited were selected based stakeholders were interviewed as part of this assurance engagement. on iden ﬁed material aspects as well as geographical and divisional spread: • Review of suppor ng evidence for key claims and data disclosed in Responsibili es of the Management of M&M Limited the Report. and of the Assurance Providers Our veriﬁca on processes were priori sed based on our risk based The Senior Management team of M&M have sole responsibility for the approach i.e. relevance of iden ﬁed material aspect and sustainability prepara on of the Report and responsible for all informa on provided in context of the business. The repor ng aspect boundary is based on the the Report as well as the processes for collec ng, analysing and internal and external materiality assessment covering the opera ons of repor ng the informa on presented in the Report. M&M has stated in companies in India region i.e. the legal en es of the M&M Ltd. this Report that this report based on the GRI Standards based on its Automo ve Division (AD), M&M Ltd. Farm Division (FD), M&M Ltd. repor ng principles and performance indicators for disclosures related Swaraj Division (SD), Spares Business Unit (SBU), Mahindra Research to iden ﬁed material topics from Global Repor ng Ini a ve's Valley (MRV) and Corporate CentreMahindra Towers-Worli. Sustainability Repor ng Standards. During the assurance process, we did not come across limita ons to the In performing our assurance work, our responsibility is to the scope of the agreed assurance engagement, except that the Report management of M&M; however, our statement represents our excludes sustainability performance of Interna onal opera ons of independent opinion and is intended to inform outcome of our Automo ve business which were acquired or commenced opera ons in assurance to the stakeholders of the Company. FY 2017-18 as set out in the Report. DNV GL provides a range of other services to M&M, none of which cons tute a conﬂict of Interest with this assurance work. This is the Opinion second year that we are providing assurance of the sustainability disclosures in this Report. On the basis of the veriﬁca on undertaken, nothing came to our a en on to suggest that the Report does not properly describe DNV GL's assurance engagements are based on the assump on that the adherence to the GRI repor ng requirements (stated in GRI 102: data and informa on provided by the Company to us as part of our General Disclosures 2016, GRI 103: Management Approach 2016) review have been provided in good faith. DNV GL was not involved in the including the Principles for Deﬁning Report Content, iden ﬁed material prepara on of any statements or data included in the Report except for topics, related Strategies and Disclosures on Management Approach 1 The VeriSustain protocol is available on dnvgl.com. * Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Informa on. 79 MAHINDRA & SUSTAINABILITY MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 17-18 and the sustainability performance of iden ﬁed material topics as below: Completeness How much of all the informa on that has been iden ﬁed as material to • GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016201-1; the organiza on and its stakeholders is reported? • GRI 303: Water 2016 303-1, 303-2, 303-3; The Report has fairly a empted to disclose the sustainability disclosures • GRI 305: Emissions 2016305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4; for key material topics including the disclosure on management approach and iden ﬁed performance indicators based on GRI standard • GRI 306: Eﬄuents and Waste 2016 306-1, 306-2, 306-3, 306-4, within the iden ﬁed repor ng boundary i.e. Automo ve and Farm 306-5; equipment sector and excludes other en es such as joint ventures, • GRI 403 : Occupa onal Health and Safety 2016 403-1, 403-2, subsidiaries which are part of its consolidated ﬁnancial statement as 403-3, 403-4 ; these en es are disclosing their sustainability performance thru a separate report. It is suggested that Report could include sustainability • GRI 413 : Local Communi es 2016413-1, 413-2 ; performance of iden ﬁed material topics related to all en es included • GRI 416 : Customer Health and Safety 416-1, 416-2 ; in the organiza ons consolidated ﬁnancial statement. Neutrality Observa ons The extent to which a report provides a balanced account of an Without aﬀec ng our assurance opinion, we also provide the following organiza on's performance, delivered in a neutral tone. observa ons': The disclosures related to sustainability issues and performances are reported generally in a neutral tone, in terms of content and Stakeholder Inclusiveness presenta on, however Report could further bring out responses related The par cipa on of stakeholders in developing and achieving an to the challenges faced during the repor ng period at various accountable and strategic response to Sustainability. geographical loca ons of opera ons of M&M. The stakeholder engagement process is fairly established to iden fy sustainability challenges and concerns of diverse stakeholder groups Statement of Our Competence and Independence considering the M&M's opera ons of Automo ve and Farm Equipment DNV GL applies its own management standards and compliance policies sector, however the Report could bring out key stakeholder concerns for for quality control, in accordance with ISO/IEC 17021:2011Conformity key stakeholders as per GRI standards102-44 disclosure requirements. Assessment Requirements for bodies providing audit and cer ﬁca on of management systems, and accordingly maintains a comprehensive Materiality system of quality control including documented policies and procedures The process of determining the issues that are most relevant to an regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards organiza on and its stakeholders. and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. M&M has applied the materiality principles of GRI standard to arrive at We have complied with the DNV GL Code of Conduct during the key material topics for Automo ve and Farm Equipment sector of the assurance engagement and maintain independence where required by Company. The materiality determina on process was revalidated based relevant ethical requirements. This engagement work was carried out by on inputs from key stakeholders and senior management of Company. In an independent team of sustainability assurance professionals. our opinion Report has not missed out key material issues related to its DNV GL was not involved in the prepara on of any statements or data Automo ve and Farm equipment sector opera ons in India. The included in the Report except for this Assurance Statement. DNV GL management of the Company has established internal assessment maintains complete impar ality toward stakeholders interviewed process for monitoring and management of iden ﬁed material aspects during the assurance process. on a con nual basis for their long term organiza onal sustainability. For and on behalf of DNV GL Business Assurance India Private Limited Responsiveness The extent to which an organiza on responds to stakeholder issues. The Report has brought out responses to the iden ﬁed material aspects and fairly disclosed the strategies and management approach and challenges considering the overall sustainability context of the Automo ve and Farm Equipment sector, within the iden ﬁed aspect Mithu Ghose Kishore Kavadia Project Manager Lead Veriﬁer, boundary. However, the report could bring out the long and medium Head Opera onsMumbai Sustainability Services, terms targets related to iden ﬁed material aspects. DNV GL Business Assurance DNV GL Business Assurance India Private Limited. India Private Limited. Reliability The accuracy and comparability of informa on presented in the report, as well as the quality of underlying data management systems. The majority of data and informa on veriﬁed at the Corporate Oﬃce in Vadakepa h Nandkumar Mumbai, and sampled sites in India were found to be iden ﬁable and Assurance Reviewer Regional Manager traceable to the source and nothing came to our a en on to suggest that Sustainability & Supply Chain Opera ons Region India & Middle East, reported data have not been properly collated and consolidated at DNV GL Business Assurance India Private Limited. corporate level, nor that the assump ons used were inappropriate. Some of the data inaccuracies iden ﬁed during the veriﬁca on process were found to be a ributable to transcrip on, interpreta on and aggrega on Bengaluru, India, rd August, errors and the errors have been communicated for correc on. DNV GL Business Assurance India Private Limited is part of DNV GL Business Assurance, a global provider of cer ﬁca on, veriﬁca on, assessment and training services, helping customers to build sustainable business performance. www.dnvgl.com 80 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI Disclosure Disclosure Title Page Externally Standard Number Individual disclosure items ('a', 'b', 'c', etc.) are not listed here Number Assured GRI 101: Founda on 2016 (GRI 101 does not include any disclosure) GENERAL DISCLOSURES GRI 102: General 102-1 Name of the organiza on 06 Externally assured Disclosure 2016 102-2 Ac vi es, brands, products, and services 30-37 Externally assured 102-3 Loca on of headquarters 05 Externally assured 102-4 Loca on of opera ons 06 Externally assured 102-5 Ownership and legal form 06-07 Externally assured 102-6 Markets served 06-07 Externally assured 102-7 Scale of the organiza on 06-07 Externally assured 102-8 Informa on on employees and other workers 28-29 Externally assured 102-9 Supply chain 47 Externally assured 102-10 Signiﬁcant changes to the organiza on and its supply chain No signiﬁcant change Externally assured 102-11 Precau onary Principle or approach Carbon emission is a key Externally assured material issue we have addressed this in Environmnetak (45) and Product performance Chapter (30) 102-12 External ini a ves 42,46, 49, 50, 64 Externally assured 102-13 Membership of associa ons 11 Externally assured 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 01-04 Externally assured 102-18 Governance structure 10 Externally assured 102-22 Composi on of the highest governance body and its 10 Externally assured commi ees 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 20 Externally assured 102-41 Collec ve bargaining agreements 24 Externally assured 102-42 Iden fying and selec ng stakeholders 20 Externally assured 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 20 Externally assured 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 20-22 Externally assured 102-45 En es included in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 5 Externally assured 102-46 Deﬁning report content and topic Boundaries 5 Externally assured 102-47 List of material topics 13-14 Externally assured 102-48 Restatements of informa on No such Informa on Externally assured 102-49 Changes in repor ng No such Changes Externally assured 102-50 Repor ng period 05 Externally assured 102-51 Date of most recent report Integrated Report Externally assured FY 2017-18 102-52 Repor ng cycle 11th Repor ng Cycle Externally assured 102-53 Contact point for ques ons regarding the report 05 Externally assured 102-54 Claims of repor ng in accordance with the GRI Standards End Page Externally assured 102-55 GRI content index Annexure Externally assured 102-56 External assurance Annexure Externally assured GRI 103: 103-1 Explana on of the material topic and its Boundary 12 Externally assured Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 12 Externally assured Approach 2016 81 MAHINDRA & SUSTAINABILITY MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 17-18 GRI Disclosure Disclosure Title Page Externally Standard Number Individual disclosure items ('a', 'b', 'c', etc.) are not listed here Number Assured Product Stewardship GRI 103: 103-1 Explana on of the material topic and its boundaries 05 Externally assured Product 103-2 The management approach and its components 12 Externally assured Stewardship Management 103-3 Evalua on of the Management Approach 30 Externally assured Approach 2016 GRI 201: Economic 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 42 Externally assured Performance 2016 GRI 302: 302-1 Energy consump on within the organiza on 56-58 Externally assured Energy 2016 302-4 Reduc on of energy consump on 56-58 Externally assured Water Security GRI 103: 103-1 Explana on of the material topic and its boundaries 05 Externally assured Water Security 103-2 The management approach and its components 12 Externally assured Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evalua on of the Management Approach 46 Externally assured GRI 303: Water 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 56-58 Externally assured and Eﬄuents 2018 303-3 Water recycled and reused 56-58 Externally assured Carbon Emission GRI 103: 103-1 Explana on of the material topic and its boundaries 05 Externally assured Carbon Emission 103-2 The management approach and its components 12 Externally assured Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evalua on of the Management Approach 46 Externally assured GRI 305: 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 50 Externally assured Emissions 2016 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 50 Externally assured 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 50 Externally assured 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 50 Externally assured 305-5 Reduc on of GHG emissions 50 Externally assured 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other 50 Externally assured signiﬁcant air emissions Waste to Wealth GRI 103: 103-1 Explana on of the material topic and its boundaries 05 Externally assured Waste to Wealth 103-2 The management approach and its components 12 Externally assured Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evalua on of the Management Approach 47 Externally assured GRI 306: 306-1 Water discharge by quality and des na on Disclosure 56 Externally assured Water and Waste 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 59 Externally assured 306-3 Signiﬁcant spills 59 Externally assured GRI 307: 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regula ons 59 Externally assured Environmental Compliance 2016 Sustainable Supply Chain GRI 103: 103-1 Explana on of the material topic and its boundaries 05 Externally assured Sustainable 103-2 The management approach and its components 12 Externally assured Supply Chain Management 103-3 Evalua on of the Management Approach 46 Externally assured Approach 2016 GRI 308: 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 47 Externally assured Supply Chain 2016 308-2 Nega ve environmental impacts in the supply chain and 47 Externally assured ac ons taken 82 GRI Disclosure Disclosure Title Page Externally Standard Number Individual disclosure items ('a', 'b', 'c', etc.) are not listed here Number Assured GRI 401: 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 29 Externally assured Employment 2016 Health & Safety GRI 103: 103-1 Explana on of the material topic and its boundaries 05 Externally assured Health & Safety 103-2 The management approach and its components 12 Externally assured Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evalua on of the Management Approach 23 Externally assured GRI 403: 403-2 Types of injury, injury rate (IR), occupa onal disease rate 28-29 Externally assured Occupa onal (ODR), lost day rate (LDR), absentee rate (AR), and workHealth and Safety related fatali es, for all employees 2018 GRI 405: Diversity 405-1 Percentage of individuals within the organiza on's governance 25-29 Externally assured and Equal bodies in each of the following diversity categories: Opportunity 2016 i. Gender; ii. Age group: under 30 years old, 30-50 years old, over 50 years old; iii. Other indicators of diversity where relevant (such as minority or vulnerable groups). CSR GRI 103: CSR 103-1 Explana on of the material topic and its boundaries 05 Externally assured Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 12 Externally assured Approach 2016 103-3 Evalua on of the Management Approach 63 Externally assured GRI 413: Local 413-1 Percentage of opera ons with implemented local community 63-72 Externally assured Communi es 2016 engagement, impact assessments, and/or development programs. Opera ons with local community engagement, impact 64-72 Externally assured assessments, and development programs GRI 416: Customer 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety 35 Externally assured Health and Safety impacts of products and services 2016 GRI 417: 417-1 Requirements for product and service informa on and labeling 35 Externally assured Marke ng and 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service 37 Externally assured Labeling 2016 informa on and labeling 83 Please e-mail your This report has been prepared in accordance sugges ons/views/opinions to with the GRI standards: Core Op on. Gateway Building, sustainability@mahindra.com It has also been externally assured by DNV GL. Apollo Bunder, Mumbai 400 001, India. st www.mahindra.com TEN SECTORS. MANY COMPANIES. ONE PURPOSE. All ﬁgures in the report are current as of 31 March, 2018.
