Going Green: We take it personally for Sustainability Orient Overseas (International) Limited Sustainability Report 2018 (Incorporated in Bermuda with Limited Liability) Stock code: 0316.HK Orient Overseas (International) Limited 1 Sustainability Report 2018 Contents 1. Our Reporting Approach 2 8. Human Capital 43 2. Chairman’s Message 4 9. Intellectual Capital 52 3. Our Business 7 10. Social and Relationship Capital 58 4. Approach to Sustainability 9 11. Sustainable Development Goals 69 5. Stakeholder Engagement 14 12. Targets Review 74 6. Value Chain 19 13. Performance Data Summary 76 7. Natural Capital 25 14. HKEx ESG Reporting Guide Index 83 Contact Us We value and appreciate your feedback. If you have any comments This Sustainability Report has been translated into Chinese. If there is any about our Sustainability Report, please send them by: inconsistency or ambiguity between the English version and the Chinese version, the English version shall prevail. Post to: Orient Overseas (International) Limited 此中文版可持續發展報告為英文版本譯本，如中、英文兩個版本有任何抵觸或不 31st Floor, Harbour Centre 相符之處，應以英文版本為準。 25 Harbour Road Wan Chai, Hong Kong Email to: ENVENQ@oocl.com Telephone on: (852) 2833-3888 This report can be downloaded from our website at: 2018-2019 SEHK:0316 2019 http://www.ooilgroup.com/corporate/environmentalprotection 1 Our Reporting Approach Orient Overseas (International) Limited 3 Sustainability Report 2018 Our Reporting Approach This compilation is the eighth Sustainability Report by Orient Overseas Reporting standards (International) Limited (“OOIL”), which manifests our continual commitment to sustainability, transparency and accountability. To continue with our commitment in aligning with international sustainability guidelines and principles, this report is prepared with reference to the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) as well as Scope of the report the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). This report covers the signiﬁcant environmental, economic and social aspects of This report is also compiled with reference to the Six Capitals Framework set out the business arising from the principal activities of OOIL and its subsidiaries (the in the International Integrated Reporting Framework by the International “Group”) during the reporting period between 1st January 2018 to 31st Integrated Reporting Council (“IIRC”), which presents the value creation process December 2018. It also reports on the key sustainability strategies, objectives, of our business through serving the interests of our stakeholders. management approaches and initiatives taken by the Group to improve our performance in sustainability, transparency, and accountability. This report would not have been possible without engaging our stakeholders. Throughout our sustainability journey, we have been constantly engaging with This year, our scope of reporting has been adjusted to prepare for the various stakeholders to collect important feedback on improving our commencement of the Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Reporting sustainability performance and address their needs and expectations in this Guide set out in Appendix 27 of Main Board Listing Rules on The Stock Exchange report. For more details, please refer to page 14. of Hong Kong Limited. Assurance and Veriﬁcation Group Companies In this report, a set of key performance indicators (KPIs) have been selected and veriﬁed by an independent business assurance service provider, and in doing so demonstrates our commitment to high standards in data governance and transparency. More details can be found on page 38 of the report. Date of Issue April 2019 2 Chairman’s Message Orient Overseas (International) Limited 5 Sustainability Report 2018 Chairman’s Message sustainability. Through formulating the relevant sustainability goals and strategies, we are taking concrete actions to help tackle global environmental and social challenges we face across industries. By strengthening our stakeholder engagement process, we take every effort to understand what issues are most important to our stakeholders and incorporate their views into our sustainable development strategies. At OOIL, we are committed to prioritising the overall interests of our stakeholders and bring positive and longterm impact to the Group. We recognise that businesses must take responsibility for their industry’s effects on the environment. By embracing green operations and taking a proactive role in caring for the environment, the Group strives to address the impending issues related to global warming, air pollution, biodiversity and marine environment degradation, and energy consumption which present critical environmental challenges. Despite the huge challenges in profitability for the industry, we continued our push to adopt innovative management methods and applying energy saving and emission reducing technologies to minimise our impact on the environment. The Group is dedicated to meeting the needs of the present without compromising those of the future. For many years, we have been taking on a leadership role in implementing many important initiatives to address global environmental challenges, part of which includes supporting the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UNSDGs), green investments on our assets, development of green IT solutions, and Greenhouse Gas management, which all contribute to the success and comprehensiveness of our overall sustainability profile. This brought us many awards and recognitions for our efforts in environmental protection. In 2018, we received the Hong Kong Awards for Environmental Excellence (HKAEE) Gold Award & Outstanding Green I am pleased to present to you the Orient Overseas (International) Limited Leadership Award, the BOCHK Corporate Environmental Leadership Awards (“OOIL”) Sustainability Report 2018, which is the eighth sustainability report of Gold Award, the Seatrade Maritime Awards Asia Green Shipping Award and the the Group. Over the years, we have been committed to sustainable Singapore Environmental Achievement Award (Regional). development and growing our business responsibly to ensure long term 6 Orient Overseas (International) Limited Sustainability Report 2018 The Group is also committed to ensure that safety is not compromised in all our The Group’s efforts in sustainable development has been well-recognised. May business operations, may it be onshore or at sea, including people, cargo, ships it be in our persistent focus on operational efficiency, bringing innovative and facilities. We continue to reinforce our health and safety management solutions to customers, taking our corporate sustainability profile into the next approaches through implementing our Safety, Security and Environment (SSE) level, or pushing boundaries in the digital technology space, we left no stones Policy which underpins our commitment to ensure our operations and the unturned to ensure we secure our competitive position and maintain our service working environment are safe. We are also committed to applying industry best quality hallmark widely acknowledged by our customers and peers in the practices, going above and beyond compliance with relevant safety, security and industry. On 11th December 2018, OOCL was named as the “Company of the environment rules and regulations, as well as establishing safety objectives and Year” at the Lloyd's List Global Awards ceremony. This distinguished award targets. Maintaining a zero rate of accidents and injuries is our primary safety celebrates our exceptional accomplishments and unflinching commitment in objective. operational excellence, digital innovation and for maintaining an outstanding reputation in the industry, despite the industry navigated through some of the Our employees contribute greatly to the continual success of the Group. As a most challenging market environments over the last few years. The Group is a responsible corporate citizen employing the highest standards of business ethics founding constituent of the Hang Seng Corporate Sustainability Index, and has in all that we do, we understand that the process begins with the treatment of been selected as a constituent of the Hang Seng Corporate Sustainability our employees. We strictly adhere to the ethical rules and principles in our Benchmark Index for the eighth consecutive year. We have also become a business, and ensure our people are treated with dignity and respect. The Group constituent of the FTSE4Good Developed Index for the fourth consecutive year is an equal opportunity employer with a clearly defined policy covering areas since 2015. These indexes reflect our persistent outstanding performance in such as treating all employees with fairness and dignity, promoting the Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) management, which is wellcorporate culture of encouraging open and frank communication throughout the recognised locally and internationally. organisation, investing in its employees and caring for their hopes and aspirations through people-development programs and education, as well as Looking forward to the new year, we will continue incorporating the concept of recognising their efforts and achievements. We regard people as our greatest sustainable development into our business operations to ensure long-term asset and take good care of them. sustainability of the business. Through advocating and reviewing our sustainable development goals and strategies, we aspire to encourage corporate citizenship We embrace community responsibility as one of our core values. These values and reduce business risk strategically, thereby improving our social, economic are our underlying beliefs and the foundation of our corporate ethos, shared by and environmental efficiencies. With eyes on the future, the Group will join every member of the Group. We believe that our community contributes greatly hands with every stakeholder to contribute to sustainable development and to the success of the Group. The care and attention that we give to these create long-term values with our relentless efforts. communities are a major corporate focus to ensure all our stakeholders are respectfully accounted for. In addition to our contribution in environmental protection, we also give back to the community in other three distinct areas, namely Education of Youth, Community in-Need, and Promotion of Arts and Captain Xu Lirong Culture, to strengthen our connections with the community and promote social Chairman harmony. April 2019 3 Our Business Orient Overseas (International) Limited (“OOIL”), a company with US$6.6 billion in total revenues, has principal business activities in container transport and logistics services. OOIL is listed on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong with 18 major Corporate Shareholders and has more than 370 offices in over 80 countries/regions. 8 Orient Overseas (International) Limited Sustainability Report 2018 Our Business Segment Information Our Philosophy The principal activities of the Group are container transport and logistics. At its core, any activity in the Group is guided by our Mission Container transport and logistics include global containerised shipping services Statement and Core Values. in major trade lanes, covering Trans-Pacific, Australasia, Trans-Atlantic, AsiaEurope, Intra-Europe and Intra-Asia, Latin America, Mediterranean-West Africa, Asia-Africa Trades, and integrated services over the management and control of Mission Statement effective storage and flow of goods. To be the best and most innovative international container transport and logistics service provider; providing a Vital Link to world trade and creating value for our customers, employees, shareholders and partners. Business Description Liner Services Core Values OOCL is one of the world's largest integrated international container OOCL has four core values that are central to everything the Company does. The transportation, logistics and terminal companies. As one of Hong Kong's most core values are: recognised global brands, OOCL provides customers with fully-integrated People, People, People logistics and containerised transportation services, with a network that Customer Focus encompasses Asia, Europe, the Americas, Africa and Australasia. Excellence Through Quality Community Responsibility OOCL is well respected in the industry with a reputation for providing customerfocused solutions, a quality-through-excellence approach and continual innovation. OOCL is one of the leading international carriers serving China, providing a full range of logistics and transportation services throughout the country. It is also an industry leader in the use of information technology and e-commerce to manage the entire cargo process. Logistics Services As a world-class provider of innovative logistics and supply-chain services and solutions, OOCL Logistics has an extensive network of more than 130 offices in over 45 countries. Providing advanced customer-specific solutions through our value-creating services and IT technology in supply-chain management, our dedicated and experienced professionals focuses on serving customers with global sourcing and supply-chain-management needs, creating value through innovative end-to-end international logistics programs. We are also a leader in providing sophisticated transportation, warehousing and distribution services in the mainland China, offering professional and efficient 3PL and 4PL solutions. As a global company based in Asia, OOCL Logistics is exceptionally positioned to serve both international and domestic customers in the world's fastest-growing markets. 4 Approach to Sustainability As a responsible corporate citizen, the Group is committed to incorporating sustainability into our business operations. We have been proactively building our environmental, social and governance profile through building trust with our stakeholders. With the formulation of our Sustainability Strategy, various sustainable development goals and objectives have been established in tackling global environmental and social challenges that we are facing today. Looking ahead, we will continue exploring new sustainable development opportunities to create long-term value for our stakeholders. 10 Orient Overseas (International) Limited Sustainability Report 2018 Approach to Sustainability Corporate Governance At OOCL, the formation of our Safety, Security and Environment Protection (SSE) working group, with a clear terms of reference and authority as entrusted by our management team, reflects our strong commitment to Environmental, Social The OOIL Group believes that the success of our Company is built on the and Governance (ESG) and Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). commitment to a high level of ethical and professional Code of Conduct. Our customers judge our Company not only by the quality of the products and The organisation is structured with a Corporate SSE Steering Committee at the services we provide, but also by the professional conduct and business ethics of corporate level and a Regional SSE Committee for each region. The Corporate our employees. SSE Steering Committee’s role is to set direction and policies for safety, security and environmental protection and ensure the proper execution of related The Group is committed to honesty, integrity and fairness in corporate directives and policies in all corporate departments and regions. everything it does, and expects all employees to know and Respective Corporate Functional heads of the committees will work out the adhere to the standards. directions and policies for review and endorsement by the Corporate SSE Steering Committee in order to ensure compliance of the concerned functional areas in each corporate region. Governance Framework The Steering Committee is chaired by a Global Safety, Security and Environmental Protection Officer (GSSEO), who takes a proactive role in OOIL is committed to conducting its business in accordance to high ethical oversighting and supporting all relevant Environmental, Social and Governance standards and the Company considers that effective corporate governance is an (ESG) legal and regulatory requirements, including climate change, and health important part to corporate success and the enhancement of shareholder value. and safety. The GSSEO would advise the Corporate Steering and Regional Committees of the latest regulatory, market and competitive developments and The Company has adopted its own corporate governance code (the “CG Code”), coordinate SSE policies and implementation efforts with the relevant Corporate which in addition to applying the principles as set out in the Corporate Functional Departments and Regions. The GSSEO would also report to the EXECO Governance Code and Corporate Governance Report (the “SEHK Code”) on key issues and latest SSE developments in the Group. contained in Appendix 14 to the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited (the “Listing Rules”), also incorporates and conforms to local and international best practices. The CG Code sets out the corporate governance principles applied by the Company and its subsidiaries Risk Management Framework (the “Group”) and is constantly reviewed to ensure transparency, accountability and independence. OOIL has set up and integrated risk management procedures to identify, evaluate and manage significant risks, including climate-related and ESG-related The Board currently comprises of five Executive Directors, four Non-Executive risks, that may have an impact on the business of the Group. On behalf of the Directors and five Independent Non-Executive Directors. More information can Board, the Risk Committee sets the direction for multi-disciplinary risk be found in our 2018 Annual Report, under the Corporate Governance Report management. These specific risks are owned, identified, proceeded and section. assessed by the company-wide functional units. The mitigating response The OOCL Executive Committee (EXECO) comprises members of the top proposed by functional units are checked, measured and monitored by the Risk management team and is led by the Co-Chief Executive Officers. The EXECO sets Management Department. the corporate agenda and scrutinises all Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) policies, data and initiatives from a macro perspective by evaluating and Key risks identified are reviewed regularly by the Group’s management. The addressing any associated risks and opportunities that would help improve or effectiveness of the risk management system is assessed by the Internal Audit raise the company’s overall performance. Department. The Board conducts a review on the effectiveness and adequacy of the risk management and internal control systems by reviewing the work performed by the Risk Committee and Audit Committee on an annual basis. Orient Overseas (International) Limited 11 Sustainability Report 2018 Operational Risk Assessment OOCL is committed to: The purpose of the Operational Risk Management guidance is to align with the • Apply industry best practices, and go above and beyond compliance EXECO directive to implement an Operational Risk Management process and with relevant rules and regulations on Safety [1], Security [2] and report operational risks. By integrating Operational Risk Management into our Environment [3] daily business activities, we can prevent and minimise harm to people, loss to • Establish and improve safety, security and environment objectives and business and damage to environment that may arise from our operations. targets • Proactively promote an Onboard Safety Culture and engage in the Operational Risk Management shall be implemented company-wide and reports highest levels of training back to EXECO on a quarterly basis through the SSE Committee. All corporate • Participate fully in the prevention and suppression of security threats functional departments and regions are to be accountable for identifying, against supply chain operations under our control and carry out risk assessing, controlling, reviewing and reporting operational risk areas that fall assessment on a continuous basis under their respective functional and regional scope. While an accident • Use resources [4] efficiently and apply innovative voluntary measures to summary is one source where risks can be identified, this directive encourages a minimise the impacts on the environment and natural resources fresh look at our operations to identify new risks while managing existing ones. • Regularly communicate our SSE Policy to all staff and business partners throughout the supply chain • Continually re-assess and upgrade our SSE commitments Our Policies • Serve our stakeholders by assessing their needs and providing information • Take every precaution to avoid any health and safety risks in business We believe that our strategies and approaches to sustainable activities and services to employees, business partners and communities development drive a long-term value creation for our business and stakeholders. Our core value on Community Responsibility OOCL evaluates opportunities for working with responsible business partners to is underpinned by our Corporate Safety, Security and achieve our sustainable procurement objectives at every level of the supply Environment (SSE) Policy and supported by our Sustainable chain. We also strive to ensure that our commercial relationships are formed Procurement Policy. These policies are primarily focused on with partners that share our values on safety, security and environmental care addressing the risks and opportunities in our business and and sustainable business practices. incorporate the economic, environmental and social approaches to sustainability into our decision-making process. [1] ‘Safety’ includes but is not limited to the providing of a safe working environment to protect employees from occupational hazards. [2] ‘Security’ includes but is not limited to the preventive measures to ensure security onshore and onboard, as well as cyber security. Corporate Safety, Security and Environment (SSE) Policy [3] ‘Environment’ includes but is not limited to air and greenhouse gas emissions, discharges into water and land, and generation of hazardous and non-hazardous waste. OOCL goes the extra mile to make safety and security a top priority in our [4] ‘Resources’ includes but are not limited to energy, water and other raw materials. business operations, onshore and at sea, including people, cargo, ships and facilities. We maintain the highest safety and security standards and recognise that businesses must take responsibility for their industry’s effects on the environment so OOCL proactively demonstrates our concern for the environment at every level of our organisation. 12 Orient Overseas (International) Limited Sustainability Report 2018 Safety, Quality and Environment Management System Whistle-Blowing Framework OOCL was the first container shipping line in the world to have achieved the Under the Group’s whistle-blowing policy, employees may report any concern Safety, Quality and Environmental (SQE) Management System certification in regarding accounting, internal accounting controls and auditing matters to the 2002 which consolidates the International Safety Management (ISM) Code, ISO Audit Committee without fear of dismissal or retaliation. This framework helps 9001 and ISO 14001 requirements. ensure that the Group complies with all the applicable laws and regulations, accounting standards, accounting controls and audit practices. The Audit Committee will review each complaint and decide on how the investigation Guidelines for Safety, Security & Environmental Care (SSE) Incident Reporting should be conducted. In year 2018, the Audit Committee received no complaint from employees. Incidents may occur in our business operations that threaten life, cargo and property. Through SSE Incident Reporting, we can capture incident trends and lessons learnt so we can prevent the same from happening in other regions and Anti-Corruption in the future. In the interest of adhering to the highest ethical standards, the Group has a All incidents related to safety, security and/or environment should be reported formulated Code of Conduct which serves as a guideline to ensure compliance according to escalation matrix in our Corporate Emergency Response Plan (CERP). with all local, national and international legal standards and to preclude Types of reportable incidents include: offences under local, national and international laws, any breaches of confidentiality, non-disclosure requirements or intellectual property rights and • Fatalities any conflicts of interest, acts of bribery, corruption or political contribution and • Staff work injuries (incurring lost workday(s)) any other areas of deemed misconduct. • Truck / feeder / rail / land facility accidents with injuries • Fire accidents causing serious property damage Our Management takes oversight and implementation of our policies against • Security threats and breaches bribery and corruption very seriously. The Group’s Code of Conduct has a • Environmental pollution / contamination to water and to land chapter on “Bribery and Corruption” which provides a clear and comprehensive • Cargo / container accidents which cause or threaten to cause injuries, guidance on how to conduct business in an ethical, fair and legal manner. The security breaches, pollution and serious property damage Company will regard any violation of this policy as a serious matter and it is likely to result in disciplinary action, including employment termination, that is consistent with relevant and applicable laws. Regional and function-specific Inspection Policy on Dangerous Goods (DG) Containers training on anti-corruption and anti-bribery policies are offered to our employees. To increase the safety of our employees, customers’ cargo and properties on shore and at sea when carrying DG containers, the SSE Steering Committee has In addition, comprehensive procedures are in place to address, identify, manage decided to apply a random inspection policy on DG containers. The inspection and control risks that may contain elements of corruption and bribery, with an program will raise awareness of cargo safety amongst shippers, contribute to impact on the business of the Group. The Group’s “Whistle Blower Policy”, safer cargo transport and reduce risk and costs arising from DG incidents. established in 2006, is one of our formalised procedures through which employees can anonymously file reports or register concerns and help govern the reporting and thorough investigation of allegations of suspected improper Shipboard Safety, Quality and Environmental (SQE) Monitoring and Reporting activities. According to our certified Safety, Quality and Environmental Management We conduct a mandatory vendor assessment for all new intermediaries System (SQE) (equivalent to OHSAS 18001, ISO 9001 and ISO 14001), it is including vendors, suppliers, agents, and contractors to confirm their required all of our vessel to implement and maintain the Shipboard Safety, compliance to our Code of Conduct. This assessment serves as a channel to Quality and Environmental Monitoring and Reporting. Our SQE Coordinator is communicate with our intermediaries regarding our company policy. It allows us responsible for monitoring of vessel safety and environment protection. Upon to take immediate actions if any corruption and bribery risks are identified. receipt of all Master's Reviews from vessels the SQE Coordinator shall carry out a study of the Reviews. The SQE Coordinator also has to instigate necessarily OOCL is a member of the Maritime Anti-Corruption Network (MACN), working follow up action and report such action and recommendations to the Fleet together to eliminate all forms of maritime corruption and foster fair trade Management Department in headquarters. practices. Following the MACN Anti-Corruption Principles, we avoid all kinds of bribe, facilitation payment, and corruption by adopting shared methodologies, framework, risk assessment tools, training, and campaign, helping our Orient Overseas (International) Limited 13 Sustainability Report 2018 employees and third parties to strengthen the anti-corruption approach. Not only do we work with MACN, our Company also engage with different industry Sustainability Strategy members, local governments and civil society to reinforce and promote the culture of integrity through collective action. As we continue to build on our efforts and accomplishments on environmental management the development of this Sustainability Report highlights our desire Our current approach is considered to be effective and sufficient. We have not to move towards a more integrated approach to sustainable development. received any reported cases of corruption within the Group and we ensure that Developing our Sustainability Strategy has been an important step to further all our practices are in full compliance with relevant laws and regulations. integrate sustainability considerations into our business decision-making Although our industry is less vulnerable to corruption, we continue monitoring process. and reviewing our policies and practices to maintain “zero corruption”. We would also evaluate whether it is necessary to launch comprehensive antiThis Strategy is driven by our corporate philosophy and we feel that there is a corruption risk assessments for our existing and new global offices, business need to further enhance our initiatives and bring our approaches to partners, vendors, suppliers and agencies. environmental management, economic development and social responsibility together into a more coherent structure, under the umbrella of sustainable development. Extortion, Fraud, Money Laundering & Other Related Crimes In the process of defining what sustainability means to the Company, it The guidepolicy of Code of Conduct requires all employees to comply with any significantly helped steer how we set our plans and goals for the future. The laws, rules and regulations that are aimed at preventing, detecting and result is the formulation of some key sustainable development priorities to remedying economic crime and, in particular, fraud, extortion, money initiate while setting targets and plans for each department in the Company to laundering and other related crimes. Employees must not engage criminal embrace and execute. Going forward, the development of our Strategy will activities nor choose to ignore them. We ensure that all our business practices continue to be refined according to the views of our stakeholders and objectives and operations are in full compliance with relevant laws and regulations and of the Company. during the reporting year, no such crimes have been discovered. l Transparency l Energy Efficiency l Compliance l Resource Consumption l Governance l Carbon Footprint l Accountability l Climate Change l Stakeholder Engagement l Marine Biodiversity l Recycling l Code of Conduct l Pollution l Fair Operating Practices l Waste l Sustainability Reporting l Commitment l Water l Health & Safety l Communities l Security l Responsible Sourcing l Dangerous Goods l Human Rights l Anti-piracy l Employee Relationship l Emergency Response l Employee Development l Cyber Security 5 Stakeholder Engagement We place a high priority on stakeholder engagement and recognise that it is fundamental to understanding the impact our business has on the communities in which we operate as well as the potential issues that may affect us. So reaching out to our stakeholders is imperative to achieving our business and sustainability objectives and we take every effort to gather their concerns and incorporate their views in our sustainable development strategies. Orient Overseas (International) Limited 15 Sustainability Report 2018 Stakeholder Engagement In addition to these communication channels, our stakeholders were also invited Our Stakeholder Engagement Pathway to participate in an online survey which required them to rank the significance of various sustainability topics related to our business. Our approach clearly To achieve long term success and sustainability, we are committed to demonstrates our efforts in engaging stakeholders through different channels building and maintaining lasting relationships with our key stakeholders. and shows the level of commitment we have to the communities to ensure that Listening and working closely with our stakeholders are imperative their concerns are properly accounted for. measures to ensuring the effectiveness and accuracy of our Sustainability Strategy. We establish strong communication channels to engage with as wide a variety of stakeholders as possible in order to gather their feedback towards our materiality assessment. Materiality Assessment This year, we have engaged more than 7,200 stakeholders from 10 key The process of stakeholder engagement is central to materiality assessment and groups through various channels. Our key stakeholder groups include: serves as a channel for us to engage with our stakeholders. It allows us to form a academic institutions, business partners, customers, employees, local holistic view on the issues that our stakeholders are concerned about. From our communities, non-governmental organisations, professional & industry stakeholder engagement exercise, 30 material issues were identified by different bodies, regulators & authorities, shareholders & investors, and suppliers & stakeholders and were categorised into environmental, social, governance, as well as Information Technology & security aspects. We mapped the results vendors. Once we have their feedback, we identify and priortise their based on the two dimensions of “significance to business” and “importance to concerns so that we can handle and report on them accordingly. stakeholders,” and presented it in the materiality matrix. The figure below summarises the identity of our key stakeholder groups, Identifying the material issues is certainly an important step in our sustainability their priorities and engagement channels. journey. To show our commitment to incorporating our stakeholders’ views in our sustainable development strategies, we defined the associated boundary and impact of the material issues by referencing to the GRI standards as well as in alignment to our management approach to them in this report. 16 Orient Overseas (International) Limited Sustainability Report 2018 Material Topics and Associated Boundary and Impact Materiality Matrix Boundary and Impact High GRI Page Priority Material Topics Standards Number Internal External 1 Compliance GRI 307, GRI 419 21 11 2 Anti-competitive behaviour GRI 206 22 10 9 12 3 Prevention of bribery & corruption GRI 205 12 30 15 13 Importance to Stakeholders 3 1 5 Sustainable procurement GRI 204 22 18 2 28 5 8 29 27 8 Grievance handling GRI 103 50 17 26 25 22 23 9 Biodiversity and conservation GRI 304 30 16 14 21 19 Energy 7 10 GRI 302 26, 29, 31, 33 20 6 11 Climate change mitigation & adaption 26-27, 32 24 12 Emissions GRI 305 26-27, 29 4 13 Resources & materials GRI 301 31 14 Wastewater GRI 303 30, 82 15 Marine plastic GRI 301 30 16 Waste management GRI 306 30 Signiﬁcance to Business 17 Collaboration & engagement 42 Community investment Governance Issues Environmental Issues 18 GRI 413 59 21 Employee development & succession GRI 404 44-46 Social Issues IT & Security Issues 22 Work life balance 48 Page Other Considered Topics 23 Diversity & equal opportunities GRI 405 51 Number 25 Health & safety GRI 403 47 4 Political contribution 12, 21, 51 26 Emergency response 47 6 Contraband management and anti-smuggling of sea cargo 23-24 27 IT Innovation 53-56 7 Data transparency 32, 38-40 28 Maritime security & piracy GRI 410 23-24 19 Human & labour rights 50 29 Cyber security GRI 410 56-57 20 Child labour & forced labour 21, 50 30 Customer privacy GRI 418 57 24 Freedom of association & collective bargaining 21, 50 Orient Overseas (International) Limited 17 Sustainability Report 2018 The benefits of stakeholder engagement and materiality assessment on an ongoing basis are tremendous for our business. It helps us identify the key issues that we should address and prioritise towards the shaping of our corporate sustainable development strategies. Over the years, we engaged with a wide spectrum of stakeholders through a variety of effective pathways and successful communication channels to respond and tackle various ESG related issues. We will continue to reinforce our stakeholder engagement process and communications with different stakeholders regarding our sustainable development initiatives in order to better understand their views and meet their expectations. Responding to Key Stakeholders’ Concerns • Participating in the Voluntary Speed Reduction Program to significantly reduce carbon dioxide emissions • Participating in the fuel switching schemes to lower sulphur emissions • Supporting the academic community in oceanographic research • Collaborating with industry bodies and environment-focused organisations on responsible business practices • Sharing of our carbon footprint and greenhouse gas (GHG)# emissions data in a credible and transparent manner • Offering the OOCL Carbon Calculator for customers to estimate the carbon footprint in their supply chains • Adopting high energy efficient vessels, equipment and machineries • Monitoring of responsible sourcing practices from our suppliers • Enhancing environmental performance indicators for all global business units • Studying feasible initiatives and technologies in our operations to address climate change • Working with the environmental-focus organisations to improve the carbon dioxide and sulphur dioxides calculation methodologies • Employing the external checker to verify the major environmental data disclosure • Informing our customers to be aware of GHG Scope 3 emissions from their upstream activities • Enhancing corporate Environmental, Social and Governance reporting framework and its disclosure • Supporting industry best practices to curb the trade of endangered and protected marine species • Supporting observatory and meteorological organisations engaged in marine climatology and climate change studies # The emissions of six main greenhouse gases (GHG) are addressed by the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), namely carbon dioxide (CO2); methane (CH4); nitrous oxide (N2O); hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs); perfluorocarbons (PFCs); and sulphur hexafluoride (SF6); also include a seventh greenhouse gas nitrogen trifluoride (NF3) from the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard. 18 Orient Overseas (International) Limited Sustainability Report 2018 Key Issues from Operations Engaging with a diverse group of stakeholders over the years has helped us identify the social and environmental impact that are relevant to our business. The diagram below illustrates the various sustainability issues from different operational components in our business. Environmental Issue The most significant impact from our operations is in the consumption of nonrenewable fossil fuels that generate air pollutant and greenhouse gas emissions. Efforts to restrain the impact on air quality and climate change have been focused on improving our vessels and facilities. Handling of dangerous goods is also another major environmental concern. The environmental impact from our on-shore activities are derived from emissions produced by our trucking and machinery operations, consumption of large volume of water, and hazardous chemicals from our maintenance works. The Business As a leading integrated international transportation and logistics company, our business strategy incorporates concerns from our customers, employees and suppliers. Our business success is dependent on our commitment and response to address the concerns and interests of key stakeholders. Safety, Security and Health Safety, security and health issues have always been of paramount importance and a first priority at our Company. We link our approach to quality and contingency planning. We employ a number of guidelines, procedures and precautionary measures to focus on safe operations both on shore and at sea, preventing any possible threats to security that are associated with transport operations. The Community We contribute extensively to the development of communities in Hong Kong and around the world. We help develop and maintain a sense of communal identity through various activities such as partnering with a variety of charities and Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) around the world, sponsoring academic projects, and supporting employee volunteering initiatives. 6 Value Chain To achieve sustainable development and better manage the ESG risks throughout the whole value chain, we actively engage and closely collaborate with our business partners and customers. We also strive to maintain our operational agility and move quickly to adopt to any changes in the global supply chain, thereby enabling us to ensure customers are well-served with the best selection and most competitive suite of services. 20 Orient Overseas (International) Limited Sustainability Report 2018 Value Chain Key Relationships with Customers and Suppliers “Customer focus” is one of the core values of the Group. We believe in longIn 2017, the Group developed supplier management KRIs to monitor supplier term, mutually beneficial relationships with our customers and strive to help concentration in different regions and poor supplier service. Cases of supplier create value for our customers through collaboration to enhance customer service failure were shared among employees to alert them to the importance of competitiveness. This is achieved by seeing things from the customer’s communicating our expectations to the suppliers and taking the right remedial perspective, trying to understand their business and anticipate their mitigating actions. As at the end of 2018, OOCL had approximately 19,300 active requirements. All employees are trained to be proactive in meeting customers’ suppliers and the supplier concentration was at an acceptable level. expectations and responding with a sense of urgency. Approximately 8.2% and 20.7% of the Group’s total expenditure on purchases of “We Take It Personally” is not just a slogan at OOCL, but also an attitude that all goods and services for the year are attributable to the largest supplier and five employees are encouraged to adopt in dealing with our customers. Each year we largest suppliers respectively. recognise hundreds of employees around the world for displaying initiative and going beyond the call of duty to meet our customers’ needs. Top 10 Countries with the Highest Number of Suppliers from the Group It is the Group’s policy to maintain a diversified customer base across all geographical regions and trade lanes. A Key Risk Indicator (KRI) of customer concentration was developed in the year 2017 and is included in the functional risk dashboard for the Group’s liner business which is being monitored on a quarterly basis. Different tolerance limits for the KRI are set for regions, trades and the organisation as a whole. As at the end of 2018, OOCL had approximately 27,000 active customers and the customer concentration was at an acceptable level. In the Group’s relationship with suppliers, we put special emphasis on the supplier selection process in which both quantitative and qualitative factors are considered objectively, independently and openly, according to the Group’s highest ethical standards. Pricing is not the Group’s primary consideration; instead, the Group focuses its attention on the suppliers’ quality service, safety and ethical standards. “Excellence through quality” is another core value of the Group. While we endeavour to provide the best quality service to our customers by setting high standards for ourselves, we demand the same high standards from our suppliers. It is also the Group’s policy to maintain a diversified supplier base across all geographical regions. Orient Overseas (International) Limited 21 Sustainability Report 2018 Our Code of Conduct (Summary) OOCL is committed to honesty, integrity and fairness in its business conduct and organisation management. OOCL also maintains the highest standards of professional ethics and integrity in dealing with its customers, vendors and partners. Highlights of OOCL’s Code of Conduct: 1. Legal Compliance • Comply with all applicable laws and regulations in the countries in which the Company operates. 2. Prohibition of Bribery and Corruption • Do not accept or offer gifts of material value, entertainment, or other gratuities of worth from or to business partners, in exchange for business opportunities or any privilege that can raise doubts as to objectivity and fairness of business decisions. Such offers include, but not limited to, cash, gifts, business opportunities or contracts, travel, entertainment and other expenses. Anyone aware of or suspect a violation must report to the competent authorities in the Company. 3. Political Contribution • We do not make any offer, payment or gift of material value, or promise of such, directly or indirectly, to any government or public official, political party or its representatives, candidate for political or governmental office. 4. Managing Conflict of Interest • Staff must declare and report any conflict of interest, directly or indirectly, that may impact fair business dealings and objective decisions. Where such conflicts exist by circumstances, alternative arrangements must be made to ensure fairness and objectivity. 5. Adherence to high ethical standards by respecting rights and dignity of all persons with whom we deal. Specifically we respect the provisions of the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the Conventions of the International Labour Organization in regard to: • Elimination of all forms of forced, compulsory and child labour • Freedom of employment & association • Respect for the individual and elimination of discrimination through embracement of diversity in workplace • Safe and healthy working conditions • Payment of living wages and regular employment entitlements • Non-excessive working hours 6. Assurance of non-disclosure of the Company’s business, customers and financial information and no misappropriation of our tangible or intellectual property. 7. Commitment to OOCL’s Safety, Security and Environment (SSE) Policy. 22 Orient Overseas (International) Limited Sustainability Report 2018 Fair Competition Customer Identity Verification We support fair competition with the objective of ensuring prudent and just OOCL is committed to enhancing shipment security and customer relations. Our practices across our value chain, and we consistently strive to tackle antibooking acceptance policy and the Customer Profile (CPF) verification guidelines competitive behaviour. Competition law compliance is an integral part of are the foundation to providing a clear accountability of each functional unit in business for all corporations operating in the global market place. Under the verifying the validity of each customer and its legal identity against sanction lists, vigilance of our Competition Compliance Committee and the Competition including those under the United States (U.S.) and European Union (EU). In Compliance Working Team, we have systematically and thoroughly addition, a procedure has been developed to oversee the status of the CPF implemented and enforced OOCL’s Competition Compliance Policy to ensure records and to switch them into an inactive status when they are not being that all our practices are in full compliance with competition laws. utilised within two years. In order to ensure the entire supply chain is well controlled and managed, we are continuously refining our policy and workflows. OOCL has developed and implemented our competition compliance program which includes the establishment of guidelines and mandatory training of employees to ensure our practices are in compliance with competition Customers Feedback Handling legislations. In line with our Customer Focus core value, we treasure all feedback from our customers. To facilitate the collection of customer feedback, we have added a Managing Our Vendor and Supplier “Customers Feedback” page on our corporate website at www.oocl.com. To achieve our sustainable procurement objectives at every level of the supply The purpose of this process is to ensure feedback from customers will be chain, an assessment of existing and new vendors, suppliers, agents, and handled in an organised and timely manner so that appropriate action can be contractors must be completed to confirm their compliance to our ESG taken to address their concerns. Feedback may generally fall into two main standards where on-site verification of their facilities may be conducted if categories; namely appreciation and complaints. Complaints may be servicedeemed necessary. In 2018, more than 80% of targeted vendors and suppliers related or on our code-of-conduct. Proper records on handling customer have completed the ESG vendor assessment. Once compliance is confirmed we feedback must be maintained to enable us to learn from experience. Customary would monitor, review and work with our vendors, suppliers and business complaints are received and dealt with. partners to ensure compliance levels are maintained. Customary performance and monitoring of the industry are implemented. Sustainable Procurement Policy We also put emphasis on vendor and supplier diversity. We review the business nature of our potential vendors and suppliers in order to develop a more diverse We are dedicated to promoting sustainable and responsible practices and our portfolio and source from the most suitable and responsible parties. Corporate Sustainable Procurement Policy has been implemented in every aspect of our business and at every stage of the supply chain to manage and Not only does our customers judge our Company by the quality of the products assess environmental and social risks. and services we provide, but also by our professional conduct. We believe that the success of our Company is built on the commitment and high level of ethical OOCL is committed to: and professional standards of our employees. The objective of our Corporate Guidepolicy is to set the Code of Conduct that we expect from each employee in • Reducing harmful pollutants and emissions every location where we operate, regardless of the employee’s position or level. • Promoting greater environmental sustainability at every stage in the supply chain by conserving resources • Promoting awareness among our suppliers of our expectations with regard to Safety, Quality and Environmental Protection • Promoting ethical sourcing practices • Contributing back to our community Orient Overseas (International) Limited 23 Sustainability Report 2018 Dangerous Goods Security Transportation We are committed to maintaining our vigilance to prevent any potential threats to security. Security measures, plans and standards are all in place and audited Due to its hazardous nature, Dangerous Goods (DG) shipments are regulated at every level of our organisation. We take every precaution to provide the under stringent rules and regulation throughout the entire transportation highest levels of security for our customers and employees. process. Vessel owners, container liners, port authorities, international organisations, and other related entities in the supply chain, all set various In a world where cargo security are becoming more complex in requirements concerning safe transport of DG. Information and knowledge need the international trading community, OOCL is strongly to be shared and a large amount of documents and certificates need to be committed to the security of our operations against possible granted and delivered among different parties. All of these requirements lead to compromise and to the maintenance of the highest level of complex and demanding operations. compliance in security related areas. There is no integrated solution for DG transportation thus far, though a few carriers maintain their own in-house systems; developed individually and isolated from their competitors. Subsequently, it has long been agreed that the Corporate Security Policy best way of improving safety at sea is by developing international regulations, as well as treaties adopted by the IMO. As a responsible company, we have to ensure the safety and integrity of all our employees, ships, customers' cargo and our port facilities. We are committed to preventing cargo bookings, transportation and logistics service for commodity Our Service which are prohibited by law, concerning security, public health, environment and international obligations. In this regard, we are obliged to offer our utmost The major regions that we serve in the Americas, Europe, Middle East and Asia cooperation to the Authorities including the Governments of all States in their Pacific, all have specific handling procedures and approval process for DG fight against any act that will impinge on maritime or cargo security. Such acts applications. A shipper or customer's DG cargo will be checked for its content may include, but not limited to, the following: accuracy and any legal requirements concerning its transport will be taken into account. In addition, OOCL ensures the relevant stowage and segregation • Terrorist attacking a port facility requirements of dangerous goods are met. This helps provide additional safety • Hijacking of ship to the cargo, vessel, crew, cargo handlers and the overall environment. OOCL's • Bomb threat DG teams are also available to discuss and provide advice to our customers on • Piracy all issues relating to different international and domestic regulations. • Sabotage • Shipping of weapons or agents of mass destruction • Drug smuggling DGSmart • Stowaway / human smuggling • Tampering with documentation / container / cargo OOCL's Dangerous Goods System has a powerful training program, known as • Cargo Pilferage “DGSmart”, which covers all parties involved in the DG transportation process, including carriers, forwarders, manufacturers, port authorities, and DG / chemical experts. Each party provides certain information and performs Security Code functions that are shared, followed up, and cross-checked further down the processing chain. DGSmart also links all the process involved in the whole DG From our offices to ports, warehouses, shore facilities and onboard our vessels, transportation; our technical standard for data processing is regarded as we work with the authorities to ensure that every measure is in place to consummate. maintain the highest commercial and operational security standards as possible at all times, while all employees are educated and regularly updated through security training. 24 Orient Overseas (International) Limited Sustainability Report 2018 International Ship and Port Facility Security Code Authorised Economic Operator OOCL complies with the International Ship and Port Facility Security Code (“ISPS” Similar to the C-TPAT, the EU Authorised Economic Operator (AEO) is a Code) to ensure security threats are detected and assessed and preventive voluntary-based public-private partnership where participants who fully meet measures are in place on our vessels and at our port facilities. A designated AEO requirements, such as customs compliance, appropriate record-keeping, officer on each ship and at each port facility reports to the Company Security financial solvency and, where relevant, security and safety standards, will be Officer who oversees the security plans, drills and training. With this in place, all offered an AEO certification. Since 2011, twelve of our EU-based branch offices our vessels continue to have an exemplary record containing zero breaches of have been AEO-certified. security and clean detention records. Partners in Protection Piracy Our Company has been certified as a “Partners in Protection” (PIP) carrier by the To combat the increasing threat of maritime piracy, OOCL Canada Border Services Agency (CBSA) Partners in Protection. It is a voluntary applies anti-piracy measures by adopting best practice program established by the CBSA for companies which assist to enhance border guidelines and establishing close communication with staff security, combat organised crime and terrorism, detect and prevent contraband onboard. smuggling, and increase the awareness of issues to secure the flow of goods and travellers across the U.S.-Canadian border. Piracy was common across the Middle East region and with occurrences in the southern end of the Red Sea, Gulf of Aden, Arabian Sea and down into the Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism Indian Ocean, stretching from the Somali coastline all the way across to within close proximity of the Indian coast. Our Corporate Security Policy and internal guidelines fully satisfy the U.S. Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (C-TPAT) initiative. We regularly conduct internal security checks to identify, evaluate, and prevent any security Anti-piracy Measures threats. Our security profile has been validated by the U.S. Customs and Border Protection Agency through “on-site” checks of our Group’s offices and facilities OOCL follows anti-piracy measures before our vessels enter the High Risk Area including terminals, warehouses, depots and vessels. (HRA). One of the key measures is to maintain a 24-hour, 360-degree counterpiracy visual and radar watch and to assign additional watch-keepers at the bridge and on the deck while transiting through the HRA to watch out for Container Security Initiative suspected pirate crafts. OOCL is also committed to other international initiatives, rules and regulations OOCL has also adopted the Industry Best Management Practices to avoid, deter such as the Container Security Initiative (CSI) and 24-Hour Advance Manifest or delay pirate attacks. We cooperate with navy forces and relevant anti-piracy Rule. We also actively engage various governments and authorities worldwide in organisations to exchange information on safety and security measures, piracy their efforts against any act that would impinge upon maritime or cargo security. policies and procedures. Close communication is also kept between the vessels and our Fleet Management Department office which has a 24-hour emergency hotline and is always on standby in case of any emergency. 7 Natural Capital We recognise that businesses must take responsibility for their industry’s effects on the environment. Our Company is dedicated to meeting the needs of the present without compromising those of the future. We encourage sustainable economic development through innovative environmental care measures. 26 Orient Overseas (International) Limited Sustainability Report 2018 Natural Capital Cold Ironing (Alternative Maritime Power) We are committed to comply with all environmental regulation and requirements related to our operations. We encourage and All of OOCL's new buildings currently under construction are installed with expect the highest discipline and professional conduct from our Alternative Maritime Power (AMP) Systems, also known as “Cold Ironing”, which employees, crew and vendors to take responsibility for their allows the vessel to use shore-supplied electricity instead of burning fuel when actions and comply with their environmental obligations. at berth. During the reporting period, no non-compliances in relation to air and greenhouse gas emissions, discharges into and on land, According to the Port of Los Angeles, the use of AMP technology has and the generation of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes demonstrated an average reduction of 95% in NOx, SOx, and PM emissions per violations were found. vessel call and helped nearby communities improve air quality. In the first two years of their AMP program, over 80 metric tons of pollutants were eliminated at the Port of Los Angeles. Managing Carbon Footprint and Harmful Emissions Initiatives to Reduce Nitrogen Oxides We believe that by taking a proactive role in caring for the environment, we can Since 2000, all our vessels have been installed with environmentally friendly help reduce the consumption of natural resources, minimise our discharges, NOx-controlled propulsive engines while advanced slide fuel injection valves are wastes, greenhouse gas emissions, as well as other pollutants regulated under also being adopted to help reduce NOx emissions by 30%. national laws and regulations, such as sulphur oxides (SOx), nitrogen oxides (NOx) and other particulate matters (PM), to make the world a better place to live for ourselves and future generations. Using Low-sulphur Fuel Greenhouse Gases (GHG) emissions are widely associated to its effect on global OOCL is fully compliant to the EU, North America and IMO mandated warming and climate change which are major challenges that affect everyone. requirements of using 0.1% or lower sulphur content fuel in all SOx Emission Although climate change presents challenging obstacles, we also recognise and Control Areas (SECA). We are also compliant to the requirements of using 0.1% acknowledge that there are business opportunities for innovation. Over the sulphur content fuel when our vessels are berthed at designated EU ports. years, we have made use of our knowledge and experience to create greener services to improve energy efficiency beyond our own operations. We have also Also, we strictly comply with the Air Pollution Control (Ocean Going Vessels) developed short, medium, and long-term green strategies and sustainable (Fuel at Berth) Regulation is the first in Asia, mandating fuel switching at berth development goals to smoothen our pathway in turning climate-related risks where vessels over 500 gross tonnage must switch to using 0.5% or lower into business opportunities. sulphur fuel in the auxiliary engine(s), generator(s) and boiler(s) when berthing at the Hong Kong port. It is also hoped that this regulation will pave the way for the establishment of an Emissions Control Area (ECA) in Asia, a more sustainable and long-term solution to effective and lasting air quality improvements in sync with international best practices as seen in Europe and North America. OOCL vessels also ensure that the sulphur content of our fuel is well below the IMO prescribed standard of 3.5% when sailing in the high seas. In 2018, OOCL New Environmentally Friendly Technology Designs achieved an average sulphur content of 2.63%. We believe that clean technology will make an important contribution to environmental protection, such as reducing the level of greenhouse gas emissions. OOCL works hand-in-hand with shipyards and naval architects to implement new environmentally friendly technology designs on our vessels. Orient Overseas (International) Limited 27 Sustainability Report 2018 OOCL Fleet Moves Forward to Meet IMO 2020 Regulation Climate Scenario Analysis The industry will be stepping into an important chapter in its history by ensuring The Company respects the provision of the Paris Agreement with the aim to all ocean-going vessels in our fleets will be able to meet the International strengthen the global response to climate change threats by keeping the global Maritime Organization’s (IMO) new Sulphur cap regulation by January 2020. temperature rise at well under 2 degrees Celsius by the end of this century. With this new Sulphur cap on marine fuel lowering from 3.5% to 0.5%, approximately 85% of Sulphur emissions is expected to be reduced but at a As a matter of urgency, we recognise the need to putting progressive efforts to significant cost to the entire industry. combating climate change and its impact. We fully support the initial climate change strategy adopted by the International Maritime Organization (IMO), In preparation for this change, the industry has been grappling with the which envisages for the first time a reduction in total Greenhouse Gas (GHG) challenges associated to fleet adjustment options, including uncertainties in the emissions by at least 50 percent by 2050 compared to 2008. The vision confirms availability and accessibility of the 0.5% Low Sulphur Fuel (LSF) in the market. As the commitment to reducing GHG emissions from international shipping which we explore our options and what would be best for our fleet to ensure includes a specific reference to a pathway of CO2 emissions reduction consistent compliance by the deadline, OOCL will begin our transition into the use of LSF with the Paris Agreement temperature goals. This shows that our industry is for our entire fleet during the second half of 2019. taking a proactive step in combating climate change. We believe that we are taking the right step towards a greener and more transparent direction forward in the industry as we all embrace the IMO 2020 To ensure our business planning is in line with IMO’s initial climate change Regulation together. As a responsible and committed member of the strategy, adopting a sectoral focus and forward-looking climate scenario analysis international community, OOCL will continue to work closely with our customers is a way to assess our strategic resilience under a range of climate scenarios and and business partners to strive for further improvements in all aspects of our management response options. The “2 degree” scenario analysis allows us to businesses for a greener future in the generations to come. identify various possible outcomes that are highly uncertain to our business and also helps us frame and assess the potential business and financial impacts from climate-related issues. Investment on Climate Change and Environmental Protection In our business operation, we have to consider both physical and transition risks We see businesses that take a proactive role in encouraging and managing under various environmental factors and policy priorities over time when we current and future economic, environmental and social development through apply the “2 degree” scenario analysis so that we can better understand and innovation will prosper as leaders in a highly competitive and changing global formulate our direction forward. Physical risks relate to impacts attributed to business environment. Therefore, OOCL is very serious about sustainability climate change, for instance, how business operations and activities are affected investing. by extreme weather, rising sea levels as well as flooding. Transition risks considers how the move towards the “2 degree” goal will impact our business Furthermore, we understand that businesses must take responsibility for their from the related policy, technology, or market changes. Having a better industry’s effects on the environment. Our Company is thus dedicated to understanding of both the transition and physical risks are essential when meeting the needs of the present without compromising those of the future. assessing climate-related impacts. They also allow us to account for the full Despite a period of consistent deterioration in profitability for the industry, we range of climate change implications so that suitable strategic response and continue focusing on green investment which includes fuel-efficient vessels, strategy can be formulated. energy-saving terminals, eco-friendly machineries and equipment. By doing so, we believe this reinforces our commitment to customers that we offer them the best service quality with the least impact on our environment. 28 Orient Overseas (International) Limited Sustainability Report 2018 Environment Environmental FriendlyFriendly Features Features on OOCL New Buildings – 13,208TEU 21,413TEU • EEDI (Energy Eﬃciency Design Index) : about 45% less than IMO baseline • DFOC (Daily Fuel Oil Consumption) : about 20% less than similar size ships LNG-ready for future retrofit • ‘Green Passport’ and ‘Enviro’ notation app ESD (Energy Saving Device) • STAR (Samsung Tip Advanced Rake) Propeller High efficiency • SARB (Samsung Asymmetric Rudder Bulb) ICMS for enhanced machinery Two-island arrangement High eﬃciency and lower cavitation control & monitoring • Higher propulsion eﬃciency (shorter shaft) • Full Spade Rudder • Higher crew comfort (less noise & vibration in D/H) Saver Stator (Pre Swirl Stator) Frequency-controlled cooling SW pump • Enhanced visibility & safer maneuvering for electric eﬃciency R-407C refrigerants • Zero ozone depletion • Less global warming potential Halogen-free type electrical cables against toxic gas emissions in case of ﬁre Rebust cargo hatch cover • Stack weight max 220MT AMP uses clean energy during port Ballast Water Treatment System • Robust and pioneering application of IMO BWM Convention IBTS (Integrated Bilge Water Treatment System) Low sulphur fuel oil tanks • To minimize oily water generated in E/R & marine gas oil system • Air type stern tube with bio-degradable lubricating oil Homogenizers for fuel saving & sludge oil reduction Latest most eﬃcient engine Shaft Generator (PTO) • State-of-the-art technology for fuel oil saving HFO double protection • Revolutionary fuel saving fully satisfying IMO regulation Most reliable structural design Eco-friendly • Three operating modes for fuel optimization Hull stress monitoring • Advanced structural analysis anti-fouling paint • High eﬃciency turbo charger with EGB for safe navigation • PMI auto tuning for optimized fuel oil consumption • Enhanced fatigue design • Space reserve for NOx Tier III (future retroﬁt) Redundant bow thrusters for • Marine gas oil tanks & system enhanced maneuverability at port Sewage treatment and holding in Frequency control fan & pump engine room / accommodation area for prevention of sea pollution at port Advanced hull form & bulbous bow for electric efficiency • Optimization for full range of • Engine room fans Alternative Maritime Power for no air operating draft • Cooling SW pump pollution during port Orient Overseas (International) Limited 29 Sustainability Report 2018 Green Passport and Life Cycle Assessment CO2 Intensity from Vessel Operations The Inventory of Hazardous Materials (IHM) (also known as the Green Passport) is a crucial requirement of the Ship Recycling Convention. With an aim to aid 54.2% safer and more environmentally sound recycling of ships, such inventory helps the recycling facilities formulate a safer and more environmentally sound plan for decommissioning the ship. 2004 2018 Most of our vessels do own the “Green Passport”. This inventory identifies, locates and lists out all hazardous and potentially hazardous material onboard a vessel. An appointed Classification Society will issue “A Statement of Compliance” (SOC) once IHM has been reviewed and having this SOC means that shipowners are aware of the hazardous and potentially hazardous materials on board the vessel and will make efforts to reduce the amount of these materials Container shipping is the most environmentally sound way to throughout the vessel’s lifespan. It is also very useful in managing the health transport large volume of goods across the world. Most of the risks posed to onboard crew as well as the unnecessary risks brought to the world’s manufactured goods and products travel by container environment. ship and, when this startling fact is considered, the relative impact upon the environment is low in comparison to other Obtaining Green Passport for our vessels demonstrates our responsibility in the modes of transport. ship recycling industry. For example, ships sold for scrapping may contain For example, for every kilometre that a container ship carries a environmentally hazardous substances such as asbestos, heavy metals, ton of cargo, it is far more energy efficient and emits much less hydrocarbons, ozone-depleting substances and others. As the IHM identifies all in the way of harmful CO2 emissions than any other type of hazardous and potentially hazardous material onboard a vessel, it helps reduce freight transport, including airplane, truck and train. It is the health, safety and environmental risks where the ships are being recycled. estimated that on average a container ship emits around 40 times less CO2 than a large freight aircraft and over three times In consideration of the environmental aspect of the vessel’s life cycle being less than a heavy truck. Container shipping is also estimated to be two and a half times more energy efficient than rail and particularly important to our business, we realise the need to adopt a Life Cycle seven times more than road. Assessment (LCA) in the strategic planning stage to help minimise the environmental impact when the vessels are being decommissioned. With the help of LCA, we can identify and evaluate the potential environmental risks associated with different input and output materials. Weather-routing Systems for Safer and Shorter Routes In addition to the adoption of clean technology in our We invest in sophisticated weather routing systems to avoid bad weather and to operations, the best way to reduce emissions in the shipping take the shortest route possible to our destinations. If a vessel hits a storm or a industry is to save fuel and we have been focusing on our typhoon, naturally it will be slowed down – perhaps from involuntary speed bunker saving programs for many years. By taking these resistance from high winds, or voluntary slowdown to avoid damage to the initiatives, OOCL has cut carbon dioxide emissions by more vessel – and as a result the ship will tend to burn more fuel and be less efficient. than 50% since 2004. In addition to reducing our emissions, we are able to help our customers achieve a lower carbon With these systems, the Captain can avoid bad weather areas by planning the footprint in their supply chains. best routes possible. . 30 Orient Overseas (International) Limited Sustainability Report 2018 Regular Hull Maintenance and Cleaning Using Non-Toxic Hull Paint Marine growths, such as barnacles, molluscs and algae, can weigh a ship down OOCL always uses environmentally friendly and non-toxic hull paint on our which in turn lead to more fuel consumption. We carry out regular maintenance vessels to help protect marine life. on our ships to keep the hull completely clean and free of such growths All our ships have been painted with tribulytin free paint (TBT-free) that are also both tin and copper-free. OOCL is constantly striving to improve the marine Optimum Trim (balance of cargo) and Minimum Ballast environment by implementing a policy for all newbuildings to use silicone-based foul-release paint. One way that we can burn less fuel is by maintaining the optimum trim and minimise the use of ballast. An optimum trim is the balance of cargo on board a vessel and if the load is too heavy at one end, the imbalance can result in more Marine Plastic Management fuel being used to sail. Hence, we devise and implement sophisticated cargo loading plans to achieve the optimum trim. We are committed to comply with the existing and forthcoming regulatory framework on marine plastic management, and adopt best practices in Moreover, the minimal use of ballast water can also help achieve a lighter vessel preventing marine plastic leaking and entering the oceans through ship-based load and better trim of ship draughts by good stowage, thereby burning less activities to minimise harmful effects on marine life, biodiversity, as well as fuel. human health. Ballast Water Management Program Respect for Biodiversity and Marine Environment All container ships discharge ballast water, which can contain organisms that are harmful to the environment. We are committed to environmental measures that respect We have a policy of exchanging ballast water only in the open sea (200 nautical aquatic biodiversity. miles away from the nearest coastline) and aim to achieve zero ballast water exchange when berthed at the port. Onboard Waste Management Ballast Water Treatment At sea, we incinerate waste onboard by using appropriate equipment, such as In 2004, the IMO adopted the International Convention for the Control and food dispenser, garbage compactor and incinerator, that are in accordance with Management of Ships’ Ballast Water and Sediment (BWM Convention) to the MARPOL Convention requirements. At port, we dispose non-hazardous and prevent and eliminate the risk in the introduction and dispersal of invasive general wastes to facilities that are authorised by the local authorities. species into habitats where they do not belong. In addition to the introduction of treatment standards over the coming years, the IMO convention specifies a We continuously monitor and reduce the amount of sludge being generated by set of criteria for the treatment process to make sure at least 99.9% of all living each vessel by using specialised equipment, such as homogenisers and oil organisms carried in ballast water are killed or removed before being purifiers, to minimise the development of sludge. We also take every effort to discharged. ensure hazardous wastes are handled accordingly and complies with local and international laws and regulations where they may apply. All hazardous wastes To help lessen the harm to the marine environment, OOCL has been actively generated onboard are collected and treated by facilities that are authorised by exploring different kinds of technologies to effectively treat ballast water that is the port authorities. in line with our environmental policy. Orient Overseas (International) Limited 31 Sustainability Report 2018 OOCL Containers Group Offices Today, OOCL only uses CFC-free refrigerants for all of our refrigerated (reefer) Our focus is to create and maintain a “paperless office” environment by containers. OOCL’s newest reefer containers have one of the lowest power eliminating the use of faxes and unnecessary paper documents. As a business consumption in the industry. All our containers have been applied with tin-free paint and we also introduced the use of eco-friendly bamboo floors instead of which has traditionally relied on paper documentation with customers, such as the traditional hardwood ones. bills of lading and invoices, we have successfully taken innovative measures to effectively reduce our paper consumption by 20% in the first year of implementation. We have implemented a “reduce, re-use and recycle” campaign in all our offices around the world, encouraging employees to switch off computers after work, powering off copiers and lights after use, and to install energy-saving office equipment, such as energy-efficient lighting systems. In exploring areas where we can reduce the use of natural resources, we adopt the mixed source Forestry Stewardship Council (FSC) certified paper for our publications, such as corporate calendars, corporate brochures and reports. OOCL Adopts Extended Speed Reduction The Environment and Natural Resources Since 2005, OOCL adopted the voluntary speed reduction program at the Port of Long Beach and the Port of Los Angeles to help reduce emissions when sailing into port. Initially, the speed reduction program encouraged vessels to reduce Our policy encourages us to help minimise potential impacts of operational activities on the environment and the natural resources through innovative their speed within 20 nautical miles of the ports and subsequently the revised environmental care measures. We are committed to environmental measures program extended the radius to a 40 nautical miles zone. OOCL had adopted the that respect aquatic biodiversity and natural environment. OOCL continually 20 nautical miles zone since the introduction of the program and has also invests in environmentally friendly equipment such as ballast water treatment, committed to adopting the extended speed reduction zone. Reduced vessel and uses sustainable materials, such as non-toxic paint, bio-degradable stern speed results in less fuel being used and therefore less emissions, such as tube oil and bamboo flooring, to help protect marine environment and forests. sulphur oxides and nitrogen oxides, diesel particles and greenhouse gases being In addition, our Group proactively takes part in ecosystem restoration project released near the coastline. Furthermore, the extended voluntary speed such as tree planting and replanting of coral and mangrove. reduction can also reduce the chance of ship strikes with whales, preventing the collisions between whales and vessels which might lead to injury or fatality. Use of Resources Stop Shipping Shark, Whale, Dolphin, and Their Related Products Our Group has set out policies to use resources efficiently, including energy, water and other raw materials. Our Group actively minimises the consumption of electricity, fuel and other raw materials in vessels, terminals, warehouses and OOCL announced that bookings for whale, shark, dolphin, and their related offices. We continue focusing on green investment which includes fuel-efficient products will not be accepted. This new policy shows our commitment and best vessels, energy-saving terminals, eco-friendly machineries and equipment. Each practices in supporting the global effort to curb the trade in at-risk, endangered regional office of our Group has their own local recycling initiatives. In order to and protected marine species. reduce fresh water consumption, our vessels utilise onboard desalination plant to convert seawater into potable water. By doing so, we believe this reinforces our commitment to customers that we offer them the best service quality with the least impact on our planet. 32 Orient Overseas (International) Limited Sustainability Report 2018 WWF-Hong Kong Conservation Talk on No Shark Fin Carriage OOCL spearheaded this project in 2010, partnering with the Department of Logistics and Maritime Studies of the Hong Kong Polytechnic University that act OOCL is one of the early few carriers committed to banning bookings for whale, as our third party verifier. The Calculator has been checked and verified for its shark, dolphin, and their related products. This policy shows our strong support methodology, accuracy and carbon footprint calculations by The American in the global effort to curb the trade of at-risk, endangered and protected Bureau of Shipping (ABS) Consulting. marine species. Moving forward, and in support of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goal 14: Life Below Water on ocean conservation, we will strive to participate in and initiate over 100 marine life protection and Annual Supply Chain CO2 Report conservation courses, activities, and programs by 2030. In our latest environmental initiative to better serve the needs of our core BCO On 14th September 2018, we invited the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) in Hong customers by gathering information on their supply chain’s carbon emissions, Kong to talk about the importance of ocean biodiversity and the role of shipping we have made further improvements in our IT capability to allow us to companies in implementing the No Shark Fin Carriage Policy through a Lunch & automatically generate the Supply Chain CO2 Reports for all the shipments without having to manually input the calculating variables. Learn session with our OOCL Hong Kong and South China Region colleagues. The talk aimed to raise the environmental awareness of our colleagues and focus on This enhancement project aims to standardise the presentation of the data and the prevention of potential risks in our operations which is particularly useful uses a more efficient method to generate the reports, thereby allowing us to when handling suspicious shipment orders. provide a more effective and proactive approach to sharing carbon emission information with our core BCO customers on an annual basis. This service capability was available since March 2014. Corporate reporting of greenhouse gas emissions with high quality standards has become a common practice for multinational corporations (MNCs) to respond to a growing demand from stakeholders for increased transparency. By providing the Supply Chain CO2 Reports on a proactive basis, we are able to better serve our customers and helping them achieve their green objectives in their supply chains. OOCL Logistics Launched CO2 Emissions Calculator OOCL Carbon Calculator Over the years, carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions from business activities have contributed to climate change which poses a serious threat to the global In 2010, OOCL launched the OOCL Carbon Calculator online and also on ecological environment. Such changes have in many ways impacted our health, smartphone platforms. The calculator allows OOCL customers to measure the society and global economies. carbon dioxide emissions in their supply chains. It is one of the first emissions calculator of its kind to offer multiple shipment searches and full intermodal To demonstrate our commitment to environmental care, OOCL Logistics emissions data. developed an online CO2 Emissions Calculator to help our customers achieve the This calculator has demonstrated OOCL’s commitment to environmental care lowest possible carbon footprint in their end-to-end supply chain. OOCL Logistics and our drive to help our customers understand and manage the carbon continues to improve the transparency of carbon disclosure during footprint in their end-to-end supply chains. transportation of shipment and help our customers better manage their emission reduction targets. The scope of the calculator spans across vessel, truck, feeder, barge and rail with over 70,000 port pairs. It offers customers a user-friendly interface, allowing We have always placed great emphasis on environmental protection, and the them to generate summarised reports according to their preferred launch of the CO2 Emissions Calculator is just another step we are taking to specifications. ensure the sustainability of our business and our planet. Orient Overseas (International) Limited 33 Sustainability Report 2018 Global Vessel Voyage Monitoring Centre (GVVMC) Going Green by Harnessing Solar Energy To enhance fuel saving and improve fleet performance, OOCL and CargoSmart™ A total of 814 solar panels were installed at our Levington office in the United have been working closely together to utilise the AIS signals to monitor all OOCL Kingdom to leverage on green energy sources. By harnessing the power of the vessels through CargoSmart’s GVVMC (Global Vessel Voyage Monitoring Centre) sun in a solar photovoltaic (PV) array, it can provide about 50% of the office’s that operates around the clock, 24-7, to track the movements of more than annual electricity consumption, thereby reducing approximately 123,000 12,000 vessels and the status of over 1,200 container ports and 1,800 container kilograms of CO2 emissions each year. The expected life of the solar array is terminals. around 40 years, which means this green initiative can continue contributing to OOCL’s green credentials for many years to come. The GVVMC monitors real-time vessel movements to identify exceptions earlier through state-of-the-art and innovative tools. The Centre would alert the users (i.e. container liners) if speed deviation, route deviation or any abnormal activities of a vessel during the voyage is found, allowing for a quicker response to address those issues. GVVMC also projects vessel ETA (Estimated Time of Arrival) based on big data analytics and machine learning by correlating sailing schedules, current locations, vessel sizes and historical route patterns. The implementation of the GVVMC was a big success in supporting marine operations to ensure that all containerships are in line with service loop standards and performance guidelines. OOCL Participates in Enhancing Cetacean Habitat and Observation (ECHO) Program OOCL participated in the Enhancing Cetacean Habitat and Observation (ECHO) Program between 1st July and 31st October 2018 to study how to reduce the OOCL Makes Further Contributions to Building Green Ports cumulative effects of shipping on at-risk whales throughout the southern coast of British Columbia in Canada. Over the 16 weeks of this Program, 96% of our In 2017, “OOCL TAIPEI” was the first vessel to utilise shore power at the Port of vessels voluntarily sailed at slower speeds in the research region, bringing our Shenzhen’s Da Chan Bay Terminals. The following year, we took further strides in vessel participate rate 46% higher than in 2017. OOCL’s commitment and our green efforts to arrange two more vessels to undergo initial shore power contribution to this Program was an important part of our sustainability work in testing at the Yantian Terminal. In collaboration with Yantian International addressing the “SDG 14: Life Below Water” component of marine life protection Container Terminals (YICT) and China Ocean Shipping Agency Shenzhen and conservation. (Penavico Shenzhen), the “OOCL POLAND” and “OOCL HO CHI MINH CITY” underwent shore power testing at the terminal in April 2018. With the shore power system, the air quality would improve as the vessel can switch off the auxiliary engine, thus reducing carbon emissions, while the working environment in the vessel’s engine room is also enhanced with the noise reduction during maintenance. 34 Orient Overseas (International) Limited Sustainability Report 2018 OOCL Sponsors and Participates in Walk for Nature 2018 Federation of Hong Kong Industries Guests Visiting the OOCL Berlin On 3rd November 2018, our Hong Kong colleagues and their guests participated On 16th August 2018, a vessel visit on the “OOCL BERLIN” was arranged for 30 in the Walk for Nature 2018 at the iconic Mai Po Nature Reserve. Walk for guests from Federation of Hong Kong Industries (FHKI). The visit aimed to Nature is an annual fundraising event of the WWF, which supports the Reserve’s provide a better understanding of the environmental practices onboard our work on local biodiversity and land conservation. OOCL was one of the sponsors vessels and the guests were also guided by an experienced captain who of the event where the participants learned more about the experience of introduced the ship’s green features and technologies. migratory birds’ journey to Hong Kong and through a series of related activities also raised their awareness and knowledge of conservation issues and sustainable living in Mai Po. OOCL supports the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) set out by the United Nations and our participation in this event shows our support and commitment to the United Nation’s SDG 15: Life on Land, which aims to ensure that the conservation, restoration, and the sustainable use of resources of wetlands are in line with obligations under international agreements. To continue with our commitment in meeting other relevant SDGs, we will cooperate with industry bodies and environment-focused organisations in addressing different environmental challenges. Hong Kong Colleagues Volunteer in Beach Cleanup On 6th October 2018, Hong Kong colleagues and their family members and friends volunteered in a beach cleanup activity at the Shek O Main Beach, a popular spot for locals and holiday makers. Co-organised by OOCL’s Vital Link Committee and Association for Geoconservation, Hong Kong, the activity was aimed at reducing pollution in the marine ecosystem. Orient Overseas (International) Limited 35 Sustainability Report 2018 Environmental Publicity Promotion Activity“Less is More” in South Software Park On 27th July 2018, OOCL Zhuhai colleagues organised the “Less is More” Campaign in South Software Park. It is an environmental promotion campaign which aimed to promote the environmental awareness of the public through games and workshops. Eight promotional booths were set up at the park which attracted more than 300 participants. Keep Away from Plastic Product Workshop & Green Detergent DIY Plastic waste is a serious environmental problem in recent years and to reinforce the awareness of plastic pollution, an environmental workshop was held in OOCL Zhuhai for our colleagues. More than 50 colleagues participated in the workshop where they gained a deeper understanding of the plastic pollution problem after watching an environmental documentary. After the video, our colleagues were taught how to make environment friendly detergents. OOCL and OOCL Logistics Shanghai Colleagues Supports Environmental Sustainability On 15th March 2018, volunteers from OOCL and OOCL Logistics in Shanghai participated in a tree-planting event at the Lingang Logistics Park. It was the fourth consecutive year that our colleagues have taken part in this initiative which aims to green up the environment and create a more serene, healthy and beautiful atmosphere for all. With continuous efforts and contributions from our volunteering colleagues, more than 80 trees were planted at the park over the past four years. Mangrove Plantation Project for a Better Cambodia On 24th June 2018, OOCL Cambodia colleagues participated in a Mangrove Plantation Project by planting 200 Mangrove Trees at the Trapang Sangke Fishery Community located in Kampot Province. The plantation of mangrove could help protect the shorelines and maintain water quality by filtering pollutants and trapping sediments originating from land. 36 Orient Overseas (International) Limited Sustainability Report 2018 Visiting Waste Bank Malaka Sari at East Jakarta OOCL Indonesia colleagues visited the Waste Bank Malaka Sari in Jakarta to learn how to better manage waste in the community by embracing the concept of the 3R’s – Reduce, Reuse, and Recycle. In the process our colleagues also learned how to make fertiliser from organic waste. Beach Cleaning and Turtle Releasing in Malaysia On 4th May 2018, our colleagues from Malaysia took part in beach cleaning as well as participating in a baby turtle releasing activity at The Cherating Turtle Sanctuary which is run by the Department of Fisheries. The Sanctuary was established in an effort to protect endanger species, particularly the Leatherback Turtles. The activities aimed at protecting marine and beach ecosystems as well as enhancing the environmental awareness of our colleagues. A total 40 baby turtles were released after the beach cleanup. Nature Conservation Workshop in Pakistan On 21st July 2018, OOCL Pakistan colleagues arranged a nature conservation workshop with the Sustainable Living Society of Institute of Business Management at the Toufiq Pasha Farm House. After some enjoyable interactive activities, an environmentalist with over 40 years of nature conservation experience shared how climate change impacted Pakistan and what immediate action should be taken in order to achieve environmental sustainability. OOCL and OOCL Logistics Philippines Takes Part in Earth Day Run On 22nd April 2018, OOCL and OOCL Logistics Philippines colleagues with their family and friends participated in the National Geographic Earth Day Run 2018 held in Manila. Our colleagues have been participating since 2009 with the goal to contribute in saving the planet. In partnership with World Wildlife Fund Philippines, the Run also raised funds for sponsoring rain storage tanks for people in the remote province of Mindoro. Orient Overseas (International) Limited 37 Sustainability Report 2018 OOCL Singapore Management Invited to Present at MPA Sustainability Workshop On 10th April 2018, OOCL Singapore management were invited by the Maritime and Port Authority of Singapore (MPA) to give a presentation to the industry on OOCL’s green projects and achievements. As a recipient of the Outstanding Singapore Environmental Achievement Award (SEAA) and winner in the SEAA Maritime Sector category, we were recognised as a maritime company that has in place strong environmental management policies with a focus on industry leading initiatives and continuous innovation in our sustainability work. Veggie Rescue at Pasir Panjang Wholesale Centre On 21st July 2018, OOCL Singapore colleagues embarked on a journey called the Veggie Rescue mission where they approached shopkeepers in the Pasir Panjang Wholesale Centre for unsold vegetables and fruits and then loaded them onto trucks for delivery to soup kitchens and charitable organisations that serve the needy. Coral Reef Planting in Thailand In Thailand, the total number of areas experiencing coral reef damage has increased significantly. On 14th July 2018, OOCL Thailand colleagues joined a coral reef planting workshop at the Navy Base in Sattahip District. Instructed by an officer of the Thai Navy, our colleagues learned how to plant corals in an effort to revitalise the reefs at the beach. Green Week Since 2007, the first week of July each year has been designated as the OOCL Green Week in support of environmental care. Improving the environment is one of our key focus under one of OOCL’s core values and demonstrates our commitment to corporate social responsibility. Green Week is a global program for everyone at our offices around the world to promote environmental care through special events and meaningful activities. They are organised to remind our colleagues on the importance of “Going Green” and we have been successful in showing our long-term commitment to protecting our environment through such initiatives. 38 Orient Overseas (International) Limited Sustainability Report 2018 Awards and Recognition OOCL is proud and honoured to receive recognition and awards for our commitment and efforts to corporate sustainability each year and we highlight some of our achievements in 2018. Founding Constituent of the Hang Seng Corporate Sustainability Index The Group is a founding constituent of the Hang Seng Corporate Sustainability Index, launched in 2010 to recognise the top 30 companies with the highest scores in areas such as environmental care, social impact, and corporate governance. We have been selected as a constituent of the Hang Seng Corporate Sustainability Benchmark Index for the eighth consecutive year, reflecting our continual outstanding performance in ESG. We received the highest sustainability score in the industrials sector from the latest sustainability performance review. These are remarkable achievements as well as recognition OOCL Expands GHG Reporting and Verification Scope of our efforts to achieving consistent and long-term sustainability objectives. Over the years, OOCL has been taking concrete, meaningful and progressive steps in our long-term commitment to protecting the environment and reducing OOIL Becomes a FTSE4Good Developed Index Constituent emissions in the communities where we operate by meeting our Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emission, operational energy consumption, as well as environmental The FTSE4Good Developed Index is one of the world’s most recognised and verification targets spanning from Scopes 1 to 3. In 2018, our GHG Scope 3 respected indices measuring the performance of companies demonstrating reporting and verification has successfully been expanded to include indirect strong Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) standards for investors emissions from not only business travel by air for employees of our Hong Kong committed to socially responsible investments. OOIL is honoured to be the first Hong Kong-based enterprise in the international transportation and logistics office, but also for our two terminals, namely the Long Beach Container industry to be included in the Index. Independently assessed according to the Terminal, LLC. (LBCT LLC) in the United States, and the Kaohsiung Container Index criteria, OOIL has met all ESG requirements to become a constituent of the Terminal (KAOCT) in Taiwan. Index for the fourth consecutive year since December 2015, an important milestone in the company’s efforts to achieving long-term sustainability OOCL is committed to reaching higher standards and transparency levels in our objectives. GHG reporting which are all in accordance with the “Greenhouse Gas Protocol – A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard.” In addition to our work related to GHG, OOCL has also been taking a leadership role in building our Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) profile to tackle a wider spectrum of environmental challenges we face across the industry. Through our continual engagement in the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) set out by the United Nations, we are constantly reviewing our efforts and progress in reducing emissions, promoting environmental care and conserving natural resources which all contribute to the success and comprehensiveness of our overall sustainability profile. We do this in all areas of our business – on land and at sea – from our vessels to our terminals, offices and containers. The achievements we have made to date are very important to our sustainability work in addressing the “SDG 13: Climate Action” component of emission reduction and climate change mitigation. Orient Overseas (International) Limited 39 Sustainability Report 2018 Verified by Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance (LRQA) and for the fifth OOCL Honoured with HKAEE Gold Standing and Recognised for Outstanding consecutive year, OOCL has achieved a limited level of assurance by dual Green Leadership reporting standards through the use of Clean Cargo Working Group (CCWG) and ISO 14064-1:2006 verification tools to certify the transparency, accuracy, On 4th May 2018, OOCL received the 2017 Hong Kong Awards for Environmental completeness, consistency and relevance disclosure on Greenhouse Gas Excellence (HKAEE) Gold Award in the Transport and Logistics Sector. Recognised emissions, operational energy consumption, as well as environmental data by the community as one of the most prestigious and reputable environmental separately. award schemes in Hong Kong, the HKAEE encourages businesses and organisations to embrace green management and innovation with the Throughout the independent verification process, OOCL prepared all the proper opportunity to benchmark their environmental performance and commitments documentation and records showing the effective management and internal towards best practices within their sectors. controls for collecting and reporting of the required data to meet the dual standards. It also verified the adequacy of the processes being implemented in For the first time in the awards program, and in addition to the HKAEE Gold managing the consumption and emissions data of our vessels, terminals and Award, a new “Outstanding Green Leadership Award” was introduced this year head office. We are pleased that not a single discrepancy, misstatement and to recognise ten top performers demonstrating excellent performance in the nonconformity was identified. aspect of green leadership. From over 1,600 eligible applicants in 15 industry sectors, OOCL is very proud to be one of the first recipients of this award. OOCL Named Company of the Year at the Lloyd's List Global Awards OOCL received resounding applause from industry peers for the coveted “Company of the Year” win at the Lloyd's List Global Awards ceremony in London on 11th December 2018. This top honour in the awards program pays tribute to an organisation with marked achievements in areas such as operational excellence, digital innovation and for maintaining an outstanding reputation in the industry. Highly regarded as one of the most important events on the industry calendar, this distinguished award celebrates our exceptional accomplishments and unflinching commitment to performance as the industry navigated through some of the most challenging market environments over the last few years. May it be in our persistent focus on operational efficiency, bringing innovative solutions to customers, taking our corporate sustainability profile into the next level, or pushing boundaries in the digital technology space, OOCL left no stones unturned to ensure we secure our competitive position and maintain our service quality hallmark widely recognised by our customers and peers in the industry. 40 Orient Overseas (International) Limited Sustainability Report 2018 OOCL is First in Industry to Win Corporate Environmental Leadership Gold OOIL Signs United Nations Global Compact and Joins China Business Summit Award OOIL was the first Hong Kong-based enterprise in the international On 31st May 2018, OOCL was very honoured to be the first carrier in the transportation and logistics industry to take part in the United Nations Global international transportation and logistics industry to receive the Gold Award at Compact (UNGC). Through our business strategies, operation, corporate culture, the 2017 BOCHK Corporate Environmental Leadership Awards ceremony. This and continual engagement in the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) set out distinguished awards program aims to acknowledge outstanding participating by the United Nations, we are committed to supporting the Ten Principles of the organisations for their efforts in promoting environmental and low-carbon best UNGC that sets out fundamental responsibilities in areas such as human rights, practices in the manufacturing and services sectors in Hong Kong and the Pan labour, environment and anti-corruption. To demonstrate our long-term Pearl River Delta region following three rounds of assessments by a professional commitment in corporate sustainability, transparency, and accountability, we adjudication panel and independent assessors. participate in UNGC workshops on relevant environmental and human right issues for time to time and aim to publish a Communication on Progress (COP) Over the years, OOCL has been proactively taking on a leadership role in report on an annual basis to describe our extensive efforts in implementing the implementing many important initiatives to address global environmental Ten Principles and SDGs. Prior to our participation in the UNGC, we have already challenges, part of which includes supporting the United Nations Sustainable been very active in building up our work on SDGs. In our 2016 Sustainability Development Goals (UNSDGs), green investments on our assets, development of Report, we introduced new targets and specific action items towards the green IT solutions, as well as Greenhouse Gas management which contributes to formulation of relevant SDGs to tackle environmental and social issues across the success and comprehensiveness of our overall sustainability profile. industries. Each year, the Global Compact Network China invites OOIL to participate in the OOCL Recognised for Environmental Sustainability China Business Summit and through various workshops at the event, each company can showcase their achievements in sustainability, discuss potential On 25th April 2018, OOCL received the Green Shipping Award from Seatrade opportunities and challenges in Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and Maritime Awards Asia in Singapore. This award recognises the company’s green encourage others to innovate together with an open mind and shared values to technology investment, carbon management, compliance to environmental address industryand topicspecific environment and human right issues. regulations and promotion in environmental awareness. As a proactive leader in green shipping, OOCL was delighted to be the first award winner in this category. Orient Overseas (International) Limited 41 Sustainability Report 2018 “Class of Excellence” Wastewi$e Label OOCL Received the 2018 Singapore Environmental Achievement Award (SEAA) OOCL also received environmental recognition for our participation and The SEAA is an awards program launched to honour outstanding organisations performance in the Wastewi$e Label Scheme under the Hong Kong Awards for and companies for their overall environmental stewardship, management and Environmental Excellence (HKAEE) program. Under this initiative, participants performance. It also recognises the leadership and innovation from their have to reduce pollution, waste or resource use and achieve at least nine goals sustainability work and how they may encourage others to adopt a more or more, covering at least two of three Wastewi$e categories in order to be proactive approach towards managing the environment. OOCL is proud to have granted with the “Class of Excellence” Wastewi$e Label. The three categories received the 2018 Singapore Environmental Achievement Award (Regional) at a include Waste Avoidance & Reduction Measures, Collection and Recycling of ceremony held at the Singapore Environment Council’s (SEC) Conference Day Recyclable Materials, and Purchase or Manufacture of Recycled Products. We event on 30th August 2018. also collaborate with our vendors and suppliers to participate in different waste This award category recognises local or international companies and reduction initiatives. organisations with outstanding environmental performance in Asia, and in the 2018 awards program, the regional scope was expanded to welcome companies from Greater China, Japan, South Korea, and ASEAN countries to take part in the Hong Kong Green Organisation Certification (HKGOC) awards scheme. The HKGOC aims to benchmark the performance of “green” organisations to Over the years, OOCL has been proactively taking on a leadership role in encourage them to sustain their various environmental best practices. It also implementing many important initiatives to address global environmental presents organisations with the opportunity to demonstrate their commitment challenges, part of which includes supporting the United Nations Sustainable to improve different aspects of their environmental performance. In Development Goals (UNSDGs), green investments on our assets, development of appreciation of our efforts towards environmental protection, OOCL was given green IT solutions, Greenhouse Gas management as well as reinforcing our the status of “Hong Kong Green Organisation” (HKGO) by the Environmental stakeholder engagement process which contributes to the success and Campaign Committee (ECC) from being a Gold Winner in the Hong Kong Awards comprehensiveness of our overall sustainability profile. for Environmental Excellence (HKAEE). Green Flag Award Since its launch, OOCL has been an outstanding voluntary participant in the Port of Long Beach’s Green Flag Program by complying to sail at slower speeds within 40 nautical miles of the coastline. To acknowledge OOCL for our commitment to reducing harmful emissions, we received a Green Flag Award from the Port of Long Beach in 2018, a recognition that we have received every year since 2005. OOCL will continue our efforts in cutting air pollutants such as smog-forming NOx, diesel particulate matters and greenhouse gases. Port officials estimate that the amount of NOx generated by container ships would be decreased by approximately 550 metric tons a year if all the vessels comply with this program. 42 Orient Overseas (International) Limited Sustainability Report 2018 Participation in Environment-focused Organisations As an active participant in addressing and demonstrating the support to issues of environmental protection and mitigating climate change, we are a member of a few environment-focused organisations: United Nations Global Compact World Shipping Council OOIL is the first Hong Kong-based enterprise in the international transportation The World Shipping Council (WSC) provides a platform for the liner shipping and logistics industry to take part in the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) members to voice out and collaborate on actionable solutions for some of the initiative. UNGC encourages companies to align their operations and strategies world's most challenging transportation issues such as those that the relate to with 10 universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment. As a member company, we strive to promote and develop environment and anti-corruption, and to act in support of UN goals and issues. sound environmental solutions through the development of sustainable new international public policies and regulations to reduce air emissions and mitigate climate change. The WSC routinely works with a broad range of stakeholders Clean Cargo Working Group from the public and private sectors to advance together in such areas. OOCL has been a member of the Clean Cargo Working Group (CCWG) since 2003 and it is a Working Group of the Business for Social Responsibility (BSR) Business Environmental Council organisation, comprising of around 40 major multinational shippers and carriers. CCWG is dedicated to benefiting the environment and people by assessing and The Business Environmental Council (BEC) is a non-profit organisation in Hong addressing the environmental footprint of goods transported around the world. Kong promoting corporate social and environmental responsibility. Members Practical solutions developed by the CCWG include the Environmental share their responsible business practices which balance economic, social and Performance Survey (EPS), which offers consistent standards and measurements environmental interests. of a carrier’s environmental performance. Our mission with the CCWG is to foster continuous improvement in the World Wildlife Fund environmental and social performance aspects of freight transport by sharing information and promoting best practices in the industry. The World Wildlife Fund (WWF) is a leading environmental and conservation organisation. Membership funds are channeled into local conservation programs and community education. 8 Human Capital As a responsible corporate citizen employing the highest standards of business ethics in all that it does, the Group understands that the process begins with the treatment of its employees. As a successful corporation, the Group appreciates that its success, growth and performance are attributable to the skills, dedication and teamwork of its employees. It regards people as its greatest asset and takes good care of them. 44 Orient Overseas (International) Limited Sustainability Report 2018 Human Capital The Group is an equal opportunity employer with a clearly Professional Development defined policy covering areas such as treating all employees with fairness and dignity, promoting the corporate culture of Our People’s Success is OOIL’s Success encouraging open and frank communication throughout the organisation, investing in its employees and caring for their hopes and aspirations through people-development programs At OOIL, we encourage openness and innovation in our work environment. Every and education, as well as recognising their efforts and employee is entitled to equal training and development opportunities through achievements. nomination and selection. Our policy on “Training & Development” sets out to groom our people to support our business growth and their own professional development while discharging duties at work. The Group provides employees with extensive opportunities to realise their potential and improve their knowledge and skills through job assignments, internal or external courses, and various vocational training and development programs. A Learning Environment People development remains a cornerstone of the corporate culture and enables the effective operation of OOIL’s career development policy through Employee Profile recruitment and promotion from within. We employ 10,321 full-time employees around the world where the majority of While on the job, our employees can be nurtured and given numerous learning them are hired locally and 93.13% of the employment are on a regular basis. and development opportunities. OOIL has, over the past years, dedicated a great deal of time and effort into its various people-development programs. OOIL advocates continuous learning and supports employee career development Staff Retention through job rotation, local and overseas job assignments in conjunction with the offering of formal and informal learning and development opportunities and The OOIL Group is a very stable organisation with a good staff retention rate. sponsorships for performance enhancement. The Company has proactive strategies in place to try and retain employees through various programs to enhance job satisfaction and improve staff retention. In 2018, the turnover rate for employees across our operations was Global Recognition Program 12.4%. Global Recognition Awards are designed to promote and recognise the “Take It Personally” spirit among OOCL employees with the purpose of promoting quality Long Service Awards service to all our customers. In recognition of our staff’s hard work and dedication to the Group, we celebrated with nearly 800 Long Service Award recipients from our offices across SPOT Award the world. In 2018, there were 70 proud colleagues who received the 25-Year Long Service Award, while 351 were recognised for their 10-Year Long Service, Everyone likes to be thanked and recognised for a job well done. At OOCL, we and 377 for their 5-Year Long Service. strongly believe in the importance of encouraging, thanking and recognising the contributions and hard work from our colleagues. This could be making a suggestion which improved efficiency at work, completing a job which exceeds expectations, or even demonstrating behaviour which exemplifies our Core Values and/or Core Competencies. The SPOT Award is part of our “Global Recognition Award” which is aimed at promoting quality customer service both internally and externally. Orient Overseas (International) Limited 45 Sustainability Report 2018 Staff Movement – Transfer / Reassignment Staff Communication / Knowledge Sharing The framework for Staff Movement is established to facilitate effective human The Group employs an innovative approach to internal communications, resources deployment, supporting achievement of business objectives and employee learning and people development. The Group recognises that on employee development. There are many opportunities available for career demand performance support to its employees is the key to help them deliver growth at OOCL. We may, in the interest of staff career development and the what customers need and unleash potential. Since 2010, the Group has utilised operational needs of the Company, assign them to different positions, or its intranet, called “InfoNet”, as a learner-centric platform for dissemination of transfer them to different departments or Group companies, either on a company news and business updates while providing its employees with a tool temporary or permanent basis. When such opportunities become available, we to share knowledge, exchange views and formulate ideas. In 2011, the Group will consider their career goals and provide career counseling at their request. In adopted a wide range of enterprise level collaboration tools. In addition to addition, they may take advantage of career opportunities by applying for open conventional methods of communication such as email, other tools such as positions within the Company. Position openings will be posted through our OOCL Wiki, OOCL Channel, Jabber, and Tibbr, have become very effective in the Internal Recruitment Bulletin. global sharing of information and knowledge as well as facilitate collaboration amongst colleagues around the world. They have also helped us support accelerated learning by providing us with the means to leverage resources, ideas Six-month Short-term Job Rotation Program and hence solutions. Since 2016, we have also enlisted the resourceful usage of the Office 365 cloud-based information platform to further our internal With “People, People, People” being the first of our 4 Core Values, OOCL is communication goals. committed to investing in our people – our greatest asset! As part of our continuous people development effort, OOCL launched a 6-month short-term Job Rotation Program to broaden colleagues’ exposure, experience Lunch & Learn and perspective by Launched in 2013, OOCL’s “Lunch & Learn” Program was created to offer • Working in different cultural and business surroundings; colleagues the opportunity to learn more about a topic or business area which is • Taking on a challenge with full accountability and performance not normally within their own job scope in a relaxed environment during lunch. measurement in a different functional setting; The Lunch & Learn program first started in Hong Kong and over the past year the • Learning to appreciate a new set of business issues in a different success of the program encouraged other regional offices to conduct their own geographical environment. programs. Program participants benefit from the exchange of knowledge, skills, insights and best practices, as well as the opportunity to enhance their communication Training and Development Programs and collaboration abilities to foster continuous improvements on business processes and decision making, thereby heightening overall organisational In addition, our employees are also provided with various management and capability. functional training programs aimed at further enhancing their competencies to better serve our customers and contribute to the growth of the Group. Success Management System (SMS) The Success Management System has been an effective tool to evaluate an individual's performance in terms of meeting both the Company’s objectives and their own goals and competency requirements. 46 Orient Overseas (International) Limited Sustainability Report 2018 International Executive Development Program (IEDP) Environmental Awareness and Training We run IEDPs for managers and executives worldwide. The program was first 1. On ship launched in May 1998. To-date, more than 975 OOCL executive participation All OOCL senior officers on ships are professionally trained to acknowledge the from across all regions are recorded to have completed the IEDP. importance of environmental protection and abide to the Company’s policy and procedures, such as the Ballast Management Plan, Garbage Management Plan and the Shipboard Marine Pollution Emergency Plan, to protect the environment. Subsequently, all other OOCL crew members are then trained by their senior officers. 2. Land side All OOCL employees undertake basic training on environmental awareness through learning the Company’s core values within the first few weeks on the job. This is an important part of the mandatory employee induction training delivered through the Company’s ePeopleSmart learning platform. Safety Training In addition to the IMO’s mandatory safety training, we also offer additional Harvard ManageMentor e-Learning Portal safety programs for our sea staff, which is in line with one of our core values, “People, People, People”. One of our ongoing programs is the Onboard As OOCL’s learning culture continues to flourish and in an effort to create more Mentoring Program, which helps train newly recruited or promoted sea staff and opportunities in people and core business skills development, we have launched cadets on safe and efficient performance. The Master, Chief Officer, Chief the Harvard ManageMentor e-Learning portal in November 2018 to further Engineer and Second Engineer would closely “mentor” them for a specific period strengthen our employees’ professional development and growth. of time with continuous appraisal reports. We target two levels of objectives in the eLearning program: An Onboard Safety Culture is constantly being promoted and all crew members are kept up-to-date on safety measures and initiatives through various training and re-education systems. OOCL offers a web-based training program and is At the individual level – we facilitate self-paced learning and growth designed for individual self-study with the purpose of upgrading safety • To encourage staff to learn and develop oneself through company-guided awareness. The course is accredited by recognised organisations and an approach examination is given at the end of each module. • To recommend targeted learning topics based on job roles & management responsibilities Crew members are expected to apply the knowledge acquired within the • To develop core soft skills and competencies and let staff practice and reflect context of their ship’s operation after the course is completed. For over 10 years on their jobs we have conducted the Bridge and Engine Resource Management Courses for OOCL officers and engineers. These courses were conducted at the OOCL At the organisation level – we create the supportive learning environment and Maritime Academy (formerly called the Zhoushan Orient International Seaman culture Training Center) in China and sponsored by the Tung Group and OOCL. All OOCL • To foster a learning organisation through a company-wide people sea staff, including ship masters, officers and engineers, would be sent for development approach mandatory training and re-education courses every four years on a rotational • To mobilise staff resources in-Region to lead, motivate and facilitate team basis. learning and share • To recognise achievements on completion of each targeted level of learning To promote safety and quality training for future seafarers, OOCL also sends our path with a joint certificate issued by Harvard and OOCL experienced technical staff, ship masters and chief engineers to conduct presentations on topics such as safety, security, shipboard communication skills, • To strengthen the capability for leadership succession in long term and our in-house SQE System (Ship Safety / Security, Quality and Environment System) to students at the Zhejiang International Maritime College in China. Orient Overseas (International) Limited 47 Sustainability Report 2018 Knowledge is Power We frequently carry out comprehensive risk assessments for reefer and dangerous cargo. Prior to loading, dangerous goods At OOCL, information and knowledge are always at our fingertips, so that we are are randomly inspected to ensure that they are correctly always well informed and in touch. That is what makes us stand out from our packed and properly stored. Strict onboard checking systems competitors. All this knowledge is aggregated from our staff in various have also been implemented for other sensitive cargo. Special departments. drills for ship safety and anti-pollution measures are periodically conducted both onboard a vessel and at office We have various tools for sharing: OOCL Wiki, for recording and discussing locations. information to build a powerful reference database; E-mail, which remains useful for all kinds of sharing; and Instant Messenger (IM) for instantaneous We take a zero tolerance approach to work-related injuries and communication. ensure full compliance with the required health and safety laws and regulations at all locations of operations. During the reporting period, no incidents of health and safety standard OOCL Wiki violations were found. OOCL Wiki is an internal platform that hosts and shares information and knowledge about the Group and our industry. All our employees are encouraged Our Zero Tolerance Approach to create, edit and facilitate discussions. To date, we have created more than 15,000 Wiki pages with over 322,000 visits per week. The Health and Safety of our people is a high priority and remains a key focus for the Group as we work together to achieve our Zero Tolerance approach to injuries in the workplace. We believe that Zero Tolerance is a fundamental sustainability objective. Health & Safety Emergency Response We never compromise on workplace safety. Our Corporate Safety, Security & Environmental Care (SSE) Policy underpins our commitment that, so far as is In the event of emergency and crisis situations, a Corporate Emergency reasonably practicable, our operations are executed in a safe working Response policy is in place to ensure such events are handled appropriately and environment to avoid any occupational hazards, health and safety risks to the in a timely manner. Under this policy, Emergency Response Teams (ERT) are employees and stakeholders. Maintaining a zero rate of accidents and injuries formed in each Region, reporting to the Corporate Emergency Response Team are our primary safety objective. (CERT), and ultimately to the Executive Committee where needed. Emergency Response Teams (ERT) In the event of a serious incident, the Regional Emergency Response Team (RERT) should first become involved in dealing with the immediate situation. If the situation becomes more serious, the RERT will escalate the case to CERT. A standardised formation of ERTs means clear communication lines can be quickly established for an efficient crisis response mechanism. Safety Review In addition to carrying out regular safety training and comprehensive risk assessments for any existing, new and/or potential operations or projects, one of the most important adoptions to help maintain a zero rate of accidents and injuries is that we have “No Blame Policy” in place to encourage our sea staff to report incident of any scale to us. 48 Orient Overseas (International) Limited Sustainability Report 2018 Rather than focusing on blame, this policy helps us perform investigations that Qualship 21 Certificates focus on identifying real and fixable root causes in case of any incidents or injuries. It allows us to disclose the investigations and findings of the reported OOCL vessels have been recognised for our exceptional safety and incidents in a timely manner, and to perform actions following the reported environmental standards under Qualship 21 since 2004. Our vessels were incidents. recognised as Qualship 21 participants for their high standard of excellence; marking the most OOCL vessels ever certified under the program to date. We are particularly proud of the fact that according to the United States Coast Guard, less than 10 percent of the foreign-flagged ships that operate in the US have qualified for this initiative. Work-life-balance (Health Wellness) We have many different clubs that cover a broad range of recreation and special OOCL Fleet Awarded for Outstanding Performance interest areas and they are formed with the aim of promoting work-life balance for all colleagues who can gather together for various activities after work. OOCL was awarded with the “Outstanding Performance in Port State Control Colleagues can take these great opportunities to meet others in the Company Inspection” for Hong Kong registered ships in the year 2017 by the Marine who share the same interests. Department of the HKSAR Government and Hong Kong Shipowners Association (HKSOA). The Port State Control (PSC), as specified by the International Maritime The recreation club, for instance, organises family outing, cooking, kickboxing, Organization (IMO), is the inspection of foreign ships in national ports to verify painting, clay, baking classes, calligraphy, wine appreciation workshop, DIY that the condition of the ship and its equipment comply with the requirements ukulele and ice-cream workshop, yoga, champagne glass etching, cloth bag padof international regulations and that the ship is manned and operated in printing, sport climbing, jazz dance, 3D latte art & etching, environmentally compliance with these rules. friendly leather crafting, laser war game, archery, pottery class, Zumba, Aerial Yoga, DIY Storm Glass Workshop, Bounce Fit, Tai Chi, DIY preserved Rose Lamp, The honour was presented to OOCL by Dr. Raymond SO Wai-man BBS JP, Under DIY cartoon buns, drum class, Floor Curling class, Funky Dance and different Secretary for Transport and Housing of the HKSAR Government in front of more activities that allow colleagues to relax and learn after work. For some particular than 100 representatives from the shipping industry at a special awards event clubs that are more popular among colleagues, they would gather more often to jointly organised by the HKSAR Government and HKSOA on 7th May 2018. have regular activities and even organise for sports competitions too! Currently, we have sports and special interest clubs that include badminton, AMVER Awards Program bowling, hiking, and soccer. These clubs not only help our colleagues attain better work-life balance, but they also make the workplace more fun and bring On 29th October 2018, OOCL was presented with 11 Automated Mutualabout the employee’s sense of belonging to the Company. In addition, Assistance Vessel Rescue System (AMVER) Awards for the year 2017 at the colleagues joining these clubs can build their leadership and organisational skills annual Hong Kong Shipowners Association Luncheon. Sponsored by the United through arranging different activities. States Coast Guard (USCG), AMVER is a unique, computer-based, and worldwide voluntary program that facilitates the rapid engagement of merchant ships in rescue operations at sea and to help other mariners in need regardless of their nationality. OOCL was also recognised for 15 Years of Faithful Participation. As safety at sea is a top priority, we believe the AMVER program helps to protect lives and make the ocean a safer environment for all seafarers. Orient Overseas (International) Limited 49 Sustainability Report 2018 Healthy Work Environment 2018 Hong Kong Badminton Family Fun Day To promote badminton as a way to lead to a healthy lifestyle, the OOCL We conduct various approaches to promote public health and Badminton Club invited colleagues and their family on 1st May, 1st October, and hygiene in our work environment. This includes organising 26th December 2018 to share the benefits of playing this sport together as good various health talks for the staff to learn how to prevent the exercise. outbreak of an infectious disease that could have a devastating impact on our operations. OOCL South China Region Annual Team Building 2018 On 24th November 2018, more than 400 OOCL and OOCL Logistics colleagues in Health Square the South China Region gathered in Shenzhen for the annual 1-day teambuilding event. Everyone benefited from an exciting day of activities through Health Square promotes the need for a healthy lifestyle to our colleagues working together on difficult and challenging tasks designed to promote through various channels. Prevention is better than cure so we promote health teamwork, strategic thinking, leadership, creativity and communication skills. awareness by organising health talks and classes for all colleagues. Our Health Square program organises a series of health classes, such as Wellness Yoga, “Tai Chi”, “Wing Chun”, Boxing Aerobics, “Qi Gong”, “Ba Duan Jin”, Acupuncture Points Pain Relief Massage and Lymph Exercise, Jazz Dance, Sport Climbing, Kickboxing, Pilates, Running, Boxing, First-Aid Course, Archery, Zumba, Aerial Yoga, Bounce Fit, Taekwondo, Stretching class, Self-massage, Floor Curling Class and Funky Dance to promote a healthy lifestyle to our colleagues. Our aim is to arouse their awareness of staying healthy and develop an interest in doing different forms of exercise. OOCL and OOCL Logistics Philippines Annual Team Building Activity On 9th June 2018, our colleagues in the Philippines conducted an annual team building activity at the Aquaria Waterpark in Batangas. The initiative aimed to give colleagues from different departments an opportunity to interact with each Hong Kong Trailwalker 2018 other outside the office environment. All colleagues managed to strengthen the bond between one another and learned the value of working closely together. On 16th November 2018, three OOCL teams comprising 12 runners with over 50 supporters took part in the annual “Trailwalker Race” in Hong Kong, a challenging 100 kilometres race through some of Hong Kong’s most beautiful Japan Colleagues Build Team Spirit at Sporting Events country parks and highest peaks in the territory. Our colleagues were pleased with their new records and reaching their goals while raising funds for Oxfam's On 3rd November 2018, OOCL Tokyo colleagues and their families took part in various poverty alleviation and emergency relief projects in Africa and Asia. the 48th Sports Festival organised by the Foreign Transportation and Finance Health Insurance Association (FTFHIA) at Toshma Amusement Park. The sports event was an effective health promotion activity supporting good sportsmanship, cooperation and a sense of solidarity with the community. With the goal of promoting healthy lifestyles, health check programs and sports classes were also provided. 50 Orient Overseas (International) Limited Sustainability Report 2018 Preventive Measures of Infectious Disease We invited various stakeholder groups to complete a stakeholder engagement survey to access all possible human and labour rights issues in our business Our guidepolicy of preventive measures of infectious disease is in place to activities. The results showed that the risk and impact from this assessment area provide guidance to Regions in ensuring that consistent preventive measures of were relatively not significant in our stakeholders’ perspective. Please refer to infectious disease are in place for all employees and in all offices. It defines the Materiality Matrix for more details. infectious disease and outbreak; proposes action to prevent infectious disease, and provides guidance in personnel, hygiene and environmental hygiene, as well We have not received any reports on non-compliance, violations or grievance as proper actions to prevent and control global health issues in case of related to human and labour rights issues in the reporting year. In our approach suspected or confirmed infectious disease. to protecting the right of our people, we periodically monitor and review our employment practices to safeguard the best interests of our people. Meanwhile, In addition, subject to the situation, the Company may provide with preventive our employees or employee representatives can anonymously report any human vaccination program in the office / Region where there is an outbreak. Each and labour rights issues to the company management through a formal region shall use the colour-coded alert system and principles to work out and grievance handling process. These mechanisms help us ensure that we continue adopt its own contingency plan according to the local situation. The contingency to be in full compliance with the related laws and regulations in order to plan should be regularly updated to ensure its validity. Priority is to ensure maintain ‘zero incidents’. We constantly monitor and assess if there are any health, safety and business continuity. human and labour rights impact or risk to any of our existing, new and/or potential operations or projects. If a risk has been identified, the Operational Risk Management process will be implemented company-wide and reports to Human & Labour Rights the Executive Committee on a quarterly basis through the SSE Committee. As a responsible corporate citizen employing the highest standards of business # For example: The UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the UN ethics in all that it does, the Group understands that the process begins with the Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights from The UN Global Compact. treatment of its employees. As a successful corporation, the Group appreciates that its success, growth and performance are attributable to the skills, dedication and teamwork of its employees. It regards people as its greatest asset. Grievance Handling Process The Group is committed to ensure our people are treated with dignity and respect. Therefore, Human and Labour Rights is an important element to our The guidepolicy of Grievance Handling Process is in place to define and Corporate HR Guidepolicies in which it serves as a guideline to ensure formulate the framework for handling grievances raised by employees and compliance with all local, national and international legal standards. In particular, ensure that all such matters can be resolved in a fair, consistent and expeditious we respect the provisions of the Declaration, Compact and Principles from the manner and in strict confidence. Any complaint or grievances will be promptly United Nations in respect to human and labour rights # and the Conventions of and thoroughly investigated by the immediate supervisor or Human Resources the International Labour Organization. We have taken actions with regards to: Department or any other person as appointed by the Company. The investigation will be communicated with relevant employees through channels • Elimination of all forms of forced, compulsory and child labour deemed appropriate by the Company determines that a complaint is founded or • Freedom of employment & association grievance has occurred, appropriate relief for the employee bringing the • Respect for the individual and elimination of discrimination complaint or grievance and appropriate disciplinary action against the source of • Safe and healthy working conditions complaint or grievance will follow. Complaint or grievance matters can be • Payment of living wages and regular employment entitlements extremely sensitive and as such, all communications such as interviews and • Non-excessive working hours witness statements will be kept confidential. Other chapters, such as, “Code of Conduct”, “Equal Opportunity in Employment”, The Company will strive to ensure that there will be no retaliation or adverse “Prohibition of Harassment” and “Grievance Handling Process” are also action taken against the employee who raised the complaint or grievance by incorporated in the Corporate HR Guidepolicies and communicated to our providing information in confidence. The Human Resources Department is employees through new-hire orientation, training and Group’s intranet. actively involved in the consultation and resolution process to ensure a proper settlement. Orient Overseas (International) Limited 51 Sustainability Report 2018 In line with the Company’s core value on People, People, People, which takes benefit from the diversity of thought. It is the Group’s policy not to discriminate into consideration of equal opportunity, respect and dignity of all employees in a against any employee or applicant for recruitment and employment on the supportive environment, this guidepolicy is to define and formulate the grounds of nationality, race, colour, religion, creed, age, sex, disability, framework for handling workplace grievances raised by employees to ensure pregnancy, childbirth and related marital status, sexual orientation, veteran that all such matters can be resolved in a fair, consistent and expeditious status and any other category as guided by local laws and regulations. We have manner and in strict confidence. also taken action to manage and improve workforce diversity and avoid various discrimination. In case of redundancy, voluntary or involuntary, the Group has Any complaint or grievance over inequitable treatment, procedural unfairness established proper procedures so as to ensure that there is no discrimination and infringement of Human and Labour Rights (linked to Code of Conduct) in the and to remove any effects which could be disproportionate and unjustifiable. workplace will be promptly and thoroughly investigated by the immediate supervisor or Regional HRA Department, or any other person as appointed by the Company if independent investigation and/or arbitration is necessary and Remuneration, Fringes Benefits and Compensation appropriate. The result of such an investigation and/or arbitration will be communicated through channels deemed as appropriate by the Company to the Our employee salary and benefits are maintained at competitive levels. employee. If employees feel particularly vulnerable, grievances can be lodged Employees are rewarded on a performance related basis within the general anonymously. policy and framework on the Group’s salary and bonus schemes which are regularly reviewed. For promotion, the Group assesses all possible candidates Not only do we handle grievance internally, our grievance handling process also and ensures that nobody with potential has been overlooked. Human and labour includes external stakeholders. Through the stakeholder engagement exercise, rights, safe and healthy working conditions and non-excessive working hours are we can handle any grievance issues that may arise from the community. We provided. Under the guidepolicy of “Employment Terms and Conditions”, invite our stakeholders to complete a survey annually to review whether our benefits and compensation includes but are not limited to: Rest Periods, business activities play a vital role to the communities where we operate. The Holidays and Leave Entitlement, and Contribution Scheme. Other welfare and survey explicitly covers human rights issues and all the data we collect are kept benefits include medical insurance and pension funds to ensure our employees confidential and anonymous. In addition, the general public can offer us are well taken care of. feedback and comments regarding our business activities through our corporate website. During the reporting period, no incidents of human rights violations, discrimination and labour right issues were observed. The Group fully complies with relevant standards, rules and regulations on compensation and dismissal, Disciplinary Action recruitment and promotion, working hours, rest periods, equal opportunity, diversity, anti-discrimination and other benefits and welfare. The guidepolicy of Disciplinary Action defines and formulates a system of progressive disciplinary actions on instances of non-compliance by employees who have repeatedly failed to meet conditions of employment. Our policy Code of Conduct ensures that when administering disciplinary actions, there is strict observance and adherence to established procedures so as to maintain fairness and In the interest of adhering to the highest ethical standards on an ongoing basis, consideration and to minimise any potential disruption to our operation. An the Group has a formulated Code of Conduct which serves as a guideline to employee observe certain standards of job performance and professional ensure compliance with all local, national and international legal standards and conduct as specified in Code of Conduct, Employee Handbook and other local to preclude offences under local, national and international laws, any breaches Human Resources policies. For first time offenders, the Company will endeavour of confidentiality, non-disclosure requirements or intellectual property rights to provide employees with necessary guidance and opportunity for correction. and any conflicts of interest, acts of bribery, corruption or political contribution However, if the employee fails to improve, he/she may be subject to disciplinary and any other areas of deemed misconduct. action and in cases of serious misconduct, be subject to summary dismissal. We have set up procedures to identify, manage and control risks that may have an impact on the business of the Group. The Group’s “Whistle Blower Policy”, Equal Opportunity and Anti-discrimination established in 2006, is one of our formalised procedures through which employees can anonymously file reports or register concerns and helps govern We are committed to equal opportunity in recruitment and employment. The the reporting and thorough investigation of allegations of suspected improper Group would like to encourage and retain the diversity of employees in all the activities. locations it operates to offer local employees fair promotion opportunities and 9 Intellectual Capital As an industry leader in the use of information technology, we aspire to provide the most innovative international container transport and logistics services in the business. In our drive for digital transformation, we are committed to enhancing operational efficiency, bringing innovative solutions to our customers and developing green IT solutions for our business. All this contributes to our competitive position as well as our service quality hallmark, which are widely recognised by customers and peers in the industry. Orient Overseas (International) Limited 53 Sustainability Report 2018 Intellectual Capital Sustaining Growth by Innovation Looking Deeper with Supply Chain – Insight OOCL Logistics launched an enhanced version of the Supply Chain Insight, an intelligence tool under the PODIUM® product line that offers near real-time monitoring of supply chain performance, shipment process and KPI across various dimensions. In the newly developed reports with additional indicators such as CO2 emission summaries and enhanced functionalities, the upgraded Supply Chain – Insight can help customers closely monitor their shipment processes and analyze supply chain performances to enhance their supply chain decisions and thus improve their competitive advantage. Launching Energy Efficient ‘GIGA Class’ Containerships OOCL reached a milestone from launching the first of the six ‘GIGA Class’ vessels, named the OOCL Hong Kong, and with a carrying capacity of 21,413 TEU, the OOCL Hong Kong received a Guinness World Record title as the world’s largest containership and is also among some of most energy efficient vessels in the industry today. OOCL is committed to exceeding international standards and these new ‘GIGA Class’ vessels are an important part to enhancing the competitiveness and CargoSmart Customer Innovation Center Drives Digital Transformation efficiency of our modern fleet. The new generation of ships are designed and built with efficiency objectives in mind to provide better economies of scale and CargoSmart opened its Customer Innovation Center to help shippers leverage sailing performance at sea. the latest technologies and innovative solution development methods to drive digital transformation. The specialists there are working closely with shippers to By embracing innovative designs and the latest green technologies, these vessels contribute to improving the environment by lowering energy consumption levels digitise their shipment management processes through an iterative and achieving the best Energy Efficiency Design Index (EEDI) value, which is 48% development process to identify challenges, quickly develop applications, as well better than the EEDI baseline requirement level by the International Maritime as test and refine the solutions. Experienced engineers in various technology Organization. areas such as Artificial Intelligence (AI), machine learning, Internet of Things (IoT), and Application Programming Interfaces (APIs) work closely together to In many of today’s environmentally conscious supply chains, customers are create new products for shippers and to help transform their businesses in an paying more attention to sustainability and their effects on the environment. innovative way. With the investment on these new vessels in our fleet, OOCL is dedicated to reinforcing our commitment to customers in reducing our impact on the environment. 54 Orient Overseas (International) Limited Sustainability Report 2018 CargoSmart Launches Blockchain Initiative to Simplify Shipment Documentation Processes On 18th July 2018, CargoSmart announced its initiative to develop a blockchain solution for shipment documentation to improve complex supply chain processes. The solution establishes a digital baseline for trusted shipment documentation management across the shipping and logistics industry. Shippers, forwarders, carriers, truckers, and customs agencies will be able to collaborate more efficiently through the platform for a single version of truth and an immutable audit trail with low latency. When connected through a blockchain documentation platform, the entire shipping ecosystem can reduce disputes, avoid late penalties from customs agencies, expedite documentation turnaround times, and better manage detention and demurrage costs. CargoSmart projects a 65% reduction in the amount of time required to collect, OOCL and Microsoft Join Hands to Embrace AI in Digital Transformation consolidate, and confirm data from multiple parties and to handle shipping data that is repetitive in different documents by leveraging its blockchain shipment On 23rd April 2018, OOCL announced a new partnership with Microsoft Research documentation solution. Asia (MSRA) in applying Artificial Intelligence (AI) research to improve network operations and achieve efficiencies within the shipping industry. The Document handling is particularly extensive for shippers and their logistics collaboration is expected to nurture over 200 AI developers in 12 months. service providers with specialised cargo. For example, shipping dangerous goods requires numerous certificates to ensure that declared goods are classified and OOCL has always been a pioneer in leveraging technology to make a real packed correctly but some of the shipping document contents are filled business impact and accelerate customer value, in which AI is the key in our repeatedly into different declaration forms. CargoSmart’s blockchain solution digital transformation vision. The company has a talent base of over 1,000 reduces the risk of mis-declaration and speeds up the filing process. When developers located in San Jose, Hong Kong, Zhuhai, Shanghai and Manila. We documents are submitted accurately and timely, the cargo can continue to move have fully embraced a hybrid cloud infrastructure with auto-switching and autoaccording to plan. scaling throughout our businesses and machine learning for several years. Through this digital transformation, we can better address customer needs with advanced technologies and predictive analytics on vessel schedules and berth activities. Top Ocean Carriers and Terminal Operators Initiate Blockchain Consortium Building upon 18 years of experience providing solutions that connect carriers, terminals, shippers, and forwarders, CargoSmart initiated the formation of the blockchain consortium with eight other leading ocean carriers and terminal operators to develop the Global Shipping Business Network (GSBN), an open My OOCL Center digital platform based on distributed ledger technology. CargoSmart is leveraging its deep shipping domain knowledge, big data analytics, and expertise We understand that buyers and suppliers have to lower their costs, react quickly in developing software applications with artificial intelligence (AI), Internet of to market changes and operate a high-speed supply chain in order to meet the Things (IoT) and blockchain technologies to help network participants improve formidable challenges. their shipping and logistics operations. My OOCL Center (MOC) is an online tool offered by OOCL to enhance the The GSBN provides the foundation for new applications that can transform interaction with all key parties involved in a shipment, thus helping customers documentation flow for shipment management including dangerous goods become more cost efficient and ultimately more competitive. documents, invoices, and cargo release. The first planned application will allow shippers to digitise and organise their dangerous goods documents and MOC’s innovative “dashboard” user-interface enables customers to easily automatically connect with relevant parties to streamline the approval process. monitor and control all the interactions regarding their shipments. Orient Overseas (International) Limited 55 Sustainability Report 2018 A number of regulatory authorities have already published their guidelines and regulations to help the industry comply with the new VGM rules while some countries such as China have announced that they are in the final stages of policy development. Principle “No VGM, No loading.” A container without a VGM is not MyPodium App allowed to load onto the vessel. The shipper is responsible for the potential regulatory penalties and all costs associated to MyPodium App is designed specifically for use by the International Supply Chain the exception handling of the containers without the VGM.” Management customers moving cargo and shipments with OOCL Logistics. It is the mobile extension of our MyPodium internet-based supply chain visibility and purchase order management information technology. MyPodium App allows the customer to view, track and trace the latest progress of important purchase orders, shipments, and merchandise anytime, anywhere with their smartphone devices. It gives them on-the-go access to exceptions, status updates and fast communication with their logistics network around the globe. CargoSmart Introduces Mobile App for SOLAS VGM Compliance OOCL Lite App CargoSmart announced BoxSnap, a free app to easily collect and share container OOCL Lite is one of OOCL’s customer-focused and innovative IT products weight information through a smartphone to comply with the Safety of Life at developed by CargoSmart™, an independently-operated company with OOCL Sea Convention’s Verified Gross Mass requirements (SOLAS VGM). The mobile investing in the development of the solution platform. app simplifies and expedites the process for shippers, truckers and cargo weighing parties to obtain VGM information and submit it to their ocean carriers OOCL Lite allows users to: access real time sailing schedules, cargo and vessel to comply and minimise the risk of held cargo or penalties. Leveraging optical tracking data, port schedules, rates of exchange for the selected voyage, character recognition (OCR) technology, truckers and cargo weighing parties can detailed container specifications, carbon calculator functions, shipment details, take a photo of a container, check the captured container number and tare and corporate news at their finger tips. weight, and share it with the parties responsible for filing the VGM. OOCL Lite is available for download at the App Store (iPhone / iPad) and Google BoxSnap allows shippers to receive container weight information as soon as it is Play (Android). The demonstration videos can be viewed in English on the OOCL available, either when a container is packed at a warehouse or is at a weighing YouTube Channel and in Mandarin on Youku. station, to meet critical VGM submission deadlines. Shippers, truckers, and cargo weighing parties can save time from having to search through carriers’ websites for container tare weights, conveniently share scanned container information, Verified Gross Mass (VGM) requirements under the Safety of Life at Sea and retain digital image records for future reference. Shippers who submit VGMs (SOLAS) Convention through CargoSmart’s online platform can designate third-parties to provide the container weight details through the app and receive alerts when they can To improve safety in the supply chain, the International Maritime Organization submit the VGM to their carriers. (IMO) has made amendments to the Safety of Life at Sea (SOLAS) convention indicating that all shippers must comply with mandatory container weight Direct Installation App Store SM Google Play TM verification requirements, or Verified Gross Mass (VGM). for Android Currently the industry is in ongoing discussions with many regulatory authorities and stakeholders to ascertain the implementation details and policies on such requirements as well as to ensure that process and system readiness for compliance is in order before the effective date. 56 Orient Overseas (International) Limited Sustainability Report 2018 As an industry leader in technology, OOCL strives to provide the most innovative Information Security international container transport and logistics services in the business. As part of its core business philosophy, OOCL excels in its services through continuous improvement and adoption of cutting-edge technology and information systems. Cyber Security Awareness Training Traditionally, antivirus and malware detection software would provide a boost to our computer security by helping our computers stay away from being “infected”. But as the development of the Internet is becoming more sophisticated than ever, signature-based virus / malware detection tools alone are no longer sufficient today. This is because the “Advanced Persistent Threat”, a set of stealthy and continuous computer hacking processes often orchestrated by attackers targeting a specific entity by taking advantage of security loopholes, is growing. APT has been observed to target organisations and/or nations for business, financial and/or political motives. “Corporate Security Breaches”, “Email Security Certification in OOCL Data Centre Spoofing”, “Spear Phishing” and “Social Media Fraud” are some of the common types of cyber attacks. OOCL was successfully certified with the new ISO/IEC 27001:2013 standard that puts more emphasis on measuring and evaluating how well an organisation’s To boost our employee’s knowledge and awareness of cyber security, new Information Security Management System (ISMS) conforms to risk assessment initiatives and programs have been developed to ensure everyone takes part in requirements and meets the high corporate IT Security management, planning protecting our assets and become more resilient against such threats. This and control standards. includes an annual cyber security training and mandatory test for all employees, monthly knowledge and trend updates, and sophisticated monitoring and The ISO 27001 Information Security Certification is an internationally-recognised protective systems. This Worldwide Cyber Security Awareness Training program code of practice for the management and protection of information security. demonstrates our commitment to IT security and best practices to protect With the certification, it recognises that the data centre is professionally secured Company and customer information. to world-class standards. The importance of information security is to ensure that timely and accurate information are available when delivering products and We initiated a Big Data Security Analytic project to further enhance our services while at the same time, preventing and minimising security incidents. protection systems. It is to reduce the danger of zero-day malware when APT happened and unknown attacks in our environment by providing early detection OOCL has been accredited with the ISO 27001 Certificate since 2005 and and near-real-time alerts. successfully upgraded to new edition of ISO/IEC 27001:2013 in 2014 by SGS, an international certification body. The certification covers the primary production Data Centre and also extends to secondary Data Centres for “Research and Development” and “Disaster Recovery” services. The ISO 27001 specifications contain a number of objectives and controls. These include: Information security policies, Organisation of information security, Human resource security, Asset management, Access control, Cryptography, Physical and environmental security, Operations security, Communications security, System acquisition, Development and maintenance, Supplier relationships, Information security incident management, Information security aspects of business continuity management and Compliance. Orient Overseas (International) Limited 57 Sustainability Report 2018 Phishing Email Awareness Exercise Cyber attacks can seriously affect businesses and it is vital that our colleagues learn how to prevent these attacks and deal with suspicious emails. OOCL launched awareness exercise focusing on phishing emails. Emails were sent out to our staff under the guise of a hacker designed to track how people fall victim to the phishing and help to assess our organisation’s vulnerability to an actual attack. Building Trusting Customer Relationships Data Privacy and Intellectual Property Rights We have attained the ISO 27001 Information Security Certification and evaluated our information security management system to protect our customer and Commitment to Product and Service Responsibility business data privacy from cyber risks. We ensure our business activities comply with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and other applicable data The Company is committed to honesty, integrity and fairness in everything it protection law relevant in those jurisdictions when we process personal data of does. We support fair trade and operation practices; and ensure that our individuals. All personal data are strictly encrypted and only accessible by advertising, marketing and communications materials are appropriate, updated authorised personnel within the Company. and in compliance with government regulations and industry best practices; and provide an appropriated and updated. Our guidepolicy on advertising is defined The Group’s Code of Conduct ensures intellectual property rights are observed and formulated according to a framework to ensure that all advertising projects and protected. This policy assures that the Company’s business and customer and related matters are in line with our fair trade and operation practice as well information are well protected and that there is no misappropriation of our as in compliance with applicable government regulations and industry best intellectual property. practices. We are also committed to adhering to the principles set out in our Safety, Security and Environment (SSE) Policy which outlines our operating principles that employees can follow to maintain high standards of health and safety in the work place in order to avoid any associated risks to the Company’s business activities. We strictly comply with the requirements of relevant laws and regulations related to the product and services we provide to our stakeholders. The Group is not aware of any material noncompliance with relevant laws and regulations on health and safety, advertising and privacy matters related to products and services provided during the reporting period. So there was no any redress action undertaken. Recall of products sold/shipped data, as well as its quality assurance process and recall procedures are not applicable to our industry as we do not manufacture or sell any physical products. 10 Social and Relationship Capital We embrace Community Responsibility as one of our Core Values. These values are our underlying beliefs and the foundation of our corporate ethos, shared by every member of the Group. Our core values provide us with a yardstick by which we measure and make our judgments and decisions. Orient Overseas (International) Limited 59 Sustainability Report 2018 Social and Relationship Capital We believe that our community contributes greatly to our Scholarship for Universities Group’s success. We have policies on community investment The university scholarships have been established in five renowned universities. and community engagement as we try to understand the needs They are Tsinghua University, Fudan University, Shanghai Jiaotong University, and interests of the communities where our Group operates Zhejiang University and Nanjing University. Since the establishment of the and to adjust our activities accordingly. In addition to our environmental contribution, we also give back to the scholarship, more than 6,200 undergraduate and post-graduate students have been awarded with more than US$5 million in funding. Each year, a selection community in other three focus areas, namely Education of panel will be set up in each university to short-list the potential candidates Youth, Community in-Need, and Promotion of Arts and Culture, based on their academic results and performance, plus active participation in which all link to our business strategy. extra-curricular activities. With this program, we hope to facilitate the well rounded development of our youth. Education Scholarship for Employees’ Children We believe it is essential to contribute to the skills development and capacity building of young people. Established since 1995, the scholarship for employees’ children had benefited over 750 students who are the children of our employees. The scholarship is open to all employees from all countries to recognise their children’s Scholarships for Universities and Employees’ Children outstanding achievements. A total of 60 scholarships were endorsed by the scholarship committee in 2018. In line with the Company’s long tradition of giving back to the communities where our employees live and work, two scholarship programs were set up in 1995 to support university students in mainland China and our employees’ OOCL Academy children. To further our Education for Youth objectives, an initiative called the “OOCL The scholarship programs aim at recognising the balanced development of Academy” was launched in 2008 on a global scale. It aims to leverage the young people who demonstrate outstanding academic achievements and active competencies of OOCL and align with the four Community Responsibility focuses involvement in contributing to the community. In keeping with the Group’s long of the Group. The Academy offers students unique opportunities to learn and tradition in education and giving back to the community, our scholarship practice in the areas of container transportation, logistics and information programs had committed to more than US$500,000 in 2018 for students in technology. These opportunities are offered to undergraduate and postgraduate mainland China and our employees’ children. students studying in these three areas and could take the form of internships, work placements, mentorships, sponsorships, and personal development programs. The Academy also supports university research projects and places strong emphasis on the importance of collaboration. Management Trainee Program We also offer Management Trainee Programs to outstanding candidates with MBA qualifications from leading universities with proven working experience, as well as fast track development programs for employees who have potential for a higher level of professional development. 60 Orient Overseas (International) Limited Sustainability Report 2018 Internship Program Launch of “OOCL IT Academy” Internship is one of the opportunities offered to undergraduate and In 2014, the “OOCL IT Academy” was established with the aim of strengthening postgraduate students of Maritime, Logistics and Information Technology from and ultimately grooming our IT talent pool in a more structured way. our OOCL Academy Program. Other than recruiting from universities, we also encourage employees’ children to apply for our internships. The idea behind the OOCL IT Academy was to provide a 3-month intensive boot camp-style training for all our newly-hired IT graduates. The training would Through the internship program, We offer various business development encompass technical know-how, process, and hands-on experience as well as projects to enable summer interns to gain experience in their field of study and knowledge sharing on OOCL culture. broaden their global perspectives. The training helps to motivate them to continue on their learning journey throughout their career at OOCL. With the academy set up and running, the plan OOCL Internships Around the World is for all future IT graduates to complete the boot camp before they begin working at the Company. Education of Youth is one of the few important community outreach initiatives of OOCL. We offer students unique opportunities to learn and practice in the areas of container transportation, logistics and related information technologies. OOCL IT Academy Boot Camp Graduation Ceremony These opportunities are offered to undergraduate and postgraduate Maritime, Logistics and Information Technology students in the form of internship, OOCL IT Academy (ITA) was set up to provide boot camp-style training to mentorship, sponsorship, or personal development programs. strengthen and groom our IT talent pool in a more structured way. To date, there have been seven successful ITA boot camps, with the 7th intake of trainees In 2018, OOCL regional offices around the globe opened their doors to offer having celebrated their graduation on 21st September 2018. After the last boot internships to deserving students for the summer months. Participating offices camp, 69 trainees from the 2018 Summer class joined various project teams in in Bangladesh, Canada, China, Egypt, Finland, Hong Kong, Malaysia, Poland, different roles, such as developer, business analyst, data science, quality Singapore, Sweden, UK and USA hosted a total of 389 interns and summer assurance or IT support positions. interns to offering them the opportunity to work with us and learn more about our industry. Graduate Training Scheme We have always been recognised as a pioneer in information technology development for the liner and logistics industry and investing in a tremendous amount of resources on training young IT talents to further boost their professional development. We continue to contribute to the Hong Kong community through academic engagements. We have been certified as a Hong Kong Institution of Engineers (HKIE) Scheme “A” Company in 2009 and since then, we have been running HKIE Fresh Graduates Trainee programs to provide young talents with a nourishing ground to become seasoned IT professionals through a structured training module. Orient Overseas (International) Limited 61 Sustainability Report 2018 While at sea, concentrations of dissolved CO2 and oxygen gases, nutrients, Collaboration with Academics Institutions chlorophyll, and suspended particles as well as the temperature and salinity of the water are measured by the scientists. These measurements allow the National Oceanic Atmospheric Administration that funds the research to estimate the rate at which the atmospheric CO2 is being absorbed by the phytoplankton activity in the ocean. Community-in-need Being an integral part of the community, we are a caring company that actively considers the needs of the people in our society. Our main focus is on underprivileged children and other similar groups in the community. Through our commitment to children’s right, we ensure that children’s childhood, potential, and dignity will not be deprived under any circumstances. OOCL Maritime Academy All our employees from every office around the world are encouraged to give OOCL collaborated with the Zhoushan Municipal Government to construct the something back to the communities in which they live through charitable Zhejiang International Maritime College (ZIMC) in China, the first of its kind in activities such as fundraising and volunteering their time and efforts to helping the country. Today, to be in line with our continual commitment to the others in need. education of young people, and to help provide training to our crew members, a renewed collaborative agreement was reached with the ZIMC that lead to the construction of a new training base on the college’s campus. Charitable Support With the mission to promote maritime education and supporting the role that OOCL assists in transporting medical diagnostic equipment and supplies from Chinese seafarers play in the world’s maritime transportation and logistics the U.S. to China to care for those children who need urgent treatment. In 2018, industry, OOCL Maritime Academy and the International Seaman Training Center the Group donated about US$265,000 and in addition to financial donations, the was unveiled on 6th March 2012 in Zhoushan, Zhejiang Province, China. Group also contributed in-kind, such as offering transportation and logistics support to send relief to the affected areas. This training facility called the OOCL Maritime Academy (OMA) was constructed for international seafarers and is used to train crew members and recruit talented young cadets by providing them with opportunities to work onboard our vessels. This also includes training and exposure for the ZIMC teachers and faculty through workshops and seminars conducted by key members of our experienced fleet management team and other senior sea officers. Currently, we are the only shipping company in China to have established an own-operated training centre in collaboration with a maritime college. This partnership greatly helps promote the important role that China plays in the global maritime arena – with the aim to strengthen safety, security, and OOCL Vital Link environmental protection practices as well as encouraging Chinese students to join the maritime and shipping industry. OOCL Hong Kong formed an official volunteer team, called the OOCL Vital Link in December 2004 and currently there are 55 members in this team. Since its establishment, a total of 121 charitable events were organised. These include OOCL Supports Global Warming Research fund-raising, donation, environmental protection and servicing events. We have a history of collaboration with the University of Washington in their In 2009, the team also added a focus on environmental protection to raise the research efforts. We are currently helping with their latest project in which their awareness of colleagues in environmental care. Moreover, a Charity Credit scientists board our container vessel to carry out their research. Program was launched in 2006 to show our appreciation for our colleagues’ active participation in public service initiatives, community outreach and volunteerism. 62 Orient Overseas (International) Limited Sustainability Report 2018 Disaster Relief OOCL Hong Kong Colleagues Experience Daily Life of Wheelchair Users In our guidepolicy of “Community Responsibility” for disaster relief, the Group On 1st September 2018, OOCL Hong Kong colleagues and their families may initiate joint relief efforts in conjunction with relevant regional offices of participated in an experiential workshop co-organised by OOCL’s Vital Link the Group. Employees may also raise funds for local charities on their own Committee and The Hong Kong Society for Rehabilitation (HKSR). Through games where the Group may consider providing further financial support. In-kind and discussions, the participants learned more about the barriers faced by donations such as operational equipment and office equipment may be wheelchair users in the city and how we can help to remove those obstacles to considered for designated charity organisations and schools to the benefit of the create a barrier-free society. community. On certain disaster relief or general charity occasions, container transportation service might be provided by the Group. Preparing Hot Meals to Give Warmth and Care to Those in Need Hong Kong Colleagues Clean Home for the Elderly In an effort to give back to the community, Hong Kong colleagues volunteered at the St. James’ Settlement to prepare and deliver hot meals to the On 20th January 2018, OOCL Hong Kong colleagues participated in a ‘Home underprivileged people in our community. The ‘Hot Meal Service’ aimed to Cleaning for the Elderly Event’ organised by the Vital Link Committee and this provide high-quality nutritional meals to people with different needs and a total outreach not only helped the elderly clean their homes, but also promoted of 24 colleagues with their family members and friends volunteered in the meal prevention and control of health issues in the community. It is a Chinese preparation and delivery held on three weekends from August to September tradition that every family would thoroughly clean their home with the intention 2018. of sweeping away any ill-fortune and making way for good luck in the new year. Bringing Graceful Meals to People with Swallowing Difficulties On 14th July 2018, over 20 OOCL Hong Kong colleagues participated in Graceful Meal a Vital Link service event co-organised with the St. James' Settlement that brought joyful and nutritious eating experiences to people with masticating or swallowing difficulties. In the half-day event comprising of a nutritional talk, meal preparation workshop and visit, our volunteers extended much warmth to the beneficiaries and shared fun moments together. Bringing Warmth and Love to the Elderly On 1st December 2018, a group of Hong Kong colleagues and their family members and friends paid a special visit to an elderly home and brought handmade tote bags and scarves made by our volunteer knitters as gifts to the 27 elderlies living there. They were all very touched by the visit and appreciated the thoughtful gifts. Orient Overseas (International) Limited 63 Sustainability Report 2018 The Bread Run Co-organised by OOCL’s Vital Link Committee and Feeding Hong Kong (FHK), the Bread Run aimed to reduce food waste and feed the hungry. Through this event, OOCL Hong Kong colleagues collected surplus fresh bread and sandwiches from bakery stores at night. Each Bread Runner a number of visited stores at closing time to pick up the surplus products and then delivered them to designated FHK drop-off points. Around 1,000 surplus food items were collected and redistributed amongst the FHK charity network. Donating to the Philanthropic Community Pharmacy 81 OOCL Hong Kong colleagues participated in one of the largest running events in Hong Kong, The Standard Chartered Marathon 2018. Co-organised by Hiking Club and Vital Link committees, this event promoted healthy lifestyle among colleagues whilst giving back to the community. The money raised by OOCL was donated to the Philanthropic Community Pharmacy as part of our mission to contribute to the betterment of our community and encourage corporate citizenship through public service initiatives, community outreach and volunteerism. Hong Kong Colleagues Promote Maritime Industry at HKMPB Orienteering Race To support the development of the Hong Kong port and shipping industry, the Hong Kong Maritime and Port Board (HKMPB) launched the Hong Kong Maritime Industry Week to promote Hong Kong as the location of choice for operating maritime businesses, showcase our strong maritime cluster of professional services, and raise interest in the public about the industry. In showing our support to the industry, the Company fully sponsored the enrollment of our Hong Kong colleagues who volunteered to enter into the exciting Orienteering Race held on 18th November 2018. Three corporate teams represented OOCL to compete in the races. Other than competing in the overall Corporate Group category against other companies, our teams also competed against one another in a Company specific race called the OOCL Champion Race. Supporting Partner for Pass-it-On Campaign of HKRC It is the fifth year that OOCL Logistics proudly continued its support to the Hong Kong Red Cross (HKRC) annual fundraising “Pass-it-On Campaign.” As a supporting partner, OOCL Logistics provided supply chain solutions to the HKRC. With the theme of “Love & Found”, the two-and-a-half-month campaign promote and encourages “hidden heroes and heroines” who share and spread love and care in Hong Kong. The public can support with donations, purchasing the two iconic items “Reddie Bear Agent Set” and “Reddie Bear Infinity Pillow”. 64 Orient Overseas (International) Limited Sustainability Report 2018 Hong Kong Colleagues Send Love by Knitting Scarves Perioperative Assisting in Shanghai Over the years, the OOCL “Scarf Project” organised by our Vital Link committee From May to December of 2018, OOCL Shanghai colleagues worked closely with brought warmth and love to over 850 elders in Hong Kong during the holiday nurses at Eye and ENT Hospital of Fudan University for elderlies suffering season. This year more than 60 OOCL Hong Kong colleagues served as volunteer from cataract. Our colleagues provided them with emotional support and knitters and made a total of 149 scarves for the donation. Colleagues who did encouragement before their cataract surgery, as well as useful information for not knit could also support the cause by sponsoring the cost of a knitting kit. On postsurgical nursing. 1st December 2018, some of the scarves were given to 27 elders with hand-made tote bags drawn by our colleagues during the Elderly Home Visit co-organised with Yang Memorial Methodist Social Service (Elderly Centre). The remaining Charity Sale in Shanghai 122 scarves and 35 hand-made tote bags were donated to the Elderly Centre. On 2nd June 2018, OOCL Shanghai colleagues participated in a charity sale in the Jing’an District. They devoted themselves in helping an organisation called ‘A Yan and his friends’ to raise funds for a nursing home. OOCL’s Donation Makes Transformational Difference to Students in Nigeria OOCL joined hands with Crossroads Foundation, a non-profit charity, to donate over 380 computers from our Hong Kong offices. The computers were accrued from the result of a system wide computer replacement project in Hong Kong and donated to the charity to benefit school children in Nigeria. We are very Night Walk for Charitable Donations pleased to see the impact that our donations can make to communities in need On 20th October 2018, more than 170 OOCL Shanghai colleagues and their and in the education for youth. families took part in the Charity Walking Night 2018. This is the second year that our Shanghai colleagues organised the charity walk and this year, 5,200 RMB was raised for children suffering from cancer in China through IMore. Hospital Visit in Shanghai The 1st of June 2018 is Children’s Day in China and taking this opportunity, OOCL Shanghai colleagues paid a visit to a group of children who suffered from congenital diseases. On this visit, our colleagues helped the medical staff decorate the venue and celebrated the special day with the young patients. Orient Overseas (International) Limited 65 Sustainability Report 2018 OOCL Shanghai Colleagues Participate in Green Food Bank On 3rd May 2018, OOCL Shanghai colleagues participated in an event organised by the Oasis Food Bank at the Shanghai High School International Division. At the end of the day, 16 bags of food were gathered and donated to the food bank warehouse in Pudong for distributing to families in need. Welfare Home Visit in Nanjing On 22nd April 2018, OOCL Nanjing colleagues visited a welfare home at Gaochun District. Our colleagues accompanied the children to Yuhuatai Memorial Park of Revolutionary Martyrs, a scenic spot in Nanjing. Although some children are disabled, they enjoyed the visit and had a memorable weekend with our colleagues. Chongyang Cake Workshop for the Elderly On 14th October 2018, OOCL Nantong colleagues volunteered at a Chongyang cake workshop for the elderly at Nantong Hongxi Community Service. Guided by a pastry chef, all the participants enjoyed making the cakes together and our volunteers brought warmth and care to the elderly through interacting and chatting with them. Mobile Phone Workshop for the Elderly From September to November 2018, over 40 OOCL Ningbo colleagues spent their weekends teaching the basics of using a smart phone at an elderly home in Ningbo. Our volunteers introduced some informative and useful applications with the aim to bring them more convenience and enjoyment in the use of the technology. 66 Orient Overseas (International) Limited Sustainability Report 2018 Charity Walk for School Clinic Fund Raising Food Drive sponsorship for the Lowcountry Food Bank On 3rd November 2018, about 100 OOCL Qingdao colleagues and their friends The OOCL Charleston offices sponsored a food drive for the Lowcountry Food and families took part in a charity walk to raise funds for constructing a clinic in a Bank and the organisation’s mission is to fight against hunger in coastal South primary school in Yunnan. In the five kilometres walk, our colleagues also took Carolina. In 2018, Charleston colleagues took a step further in their charity work the opportunity to improve the environment by picking up garbage along the by inviting other tenants in their building to participate in the cause and collect trail. more food. The initiative was a success, collecting food that weighed over 600 pounds which was more than double the amount collected in 2017. OOCL Tianjin Colleagues Visit a Temporary Accommodation L’Amazone 2018 On 16th May 2018, OOCL Tianjin colleagues visited a temporary accommodation for children suffering from leukemia and those who have received liver On 3rd June 2018, dressed in pink and ready for action, our colleagues from transplants. In order to show our love and care to the children, our colleagues France tackled the six kilometres race-walk in the L’Amazone 2018 women racedonated daily necessities to the children there. walk in Le Havre for the fourth consecutive year. This annual event celebrated its 10th anniversary. 12,200 participants were registered so that 75,000 euros were collected and donated in support in the fight against breast cancer. Canadian Colleagues Run for Breast Cancer Research On 30th September 2018, OOCL Toronto and Vancouver colleagues participated in the CIBC Run for the Cure for the fourth year in a row. Colleagues, families and friends gathered together to support the community and those affected by breast cancer. Proudly embodying our Company’s core values of community outreach and responsibility, OOCL raised over $3,061 Canadian dollars for this meaningful cause. Orient Overseas (International) Limited 67 Sustainability Report 2018 Orphanage Visit in Indonesia On 28th July 2018, OOCL Indonesia colleagues joined an orphanage visit organised by a foundation named Yayasan Media Amal Islami. This foundation provided orphans and underprivileged children with formal education and shelter, as well as helping needy families to acquire horticulture skills to farm vegetables and become more self-sufficient. Surplus Food for Needy People in Pakistan OOCL Pakistan colleagues contributed to an amazing initiative led by the RobinHood Army, a volunteer-based organisation that aimed to collect surplus food from restaurants and bakeries and then redistribute them to people in need. Our colleagues went to a densely populated area in Pakistan and delivered over 200 meal boxes to underprivileged children. Elderly Visit in Salt Lake City In partnership with the Salt Lake County Aging and Adult Services, OOCL Salt Lake City colleagues provided support, gifts and Christmas holiday cheers to 54 seniors in order to brighten up their holiday season. OOCL Vietnam Colleagues Giving Back to the Community On 28th July 2018, more than seventy OOCL Vietnam colleagues paid a visit to 150 orphaned children in Tan Thanh District followed by a tree planting and beach cleanup activity at the Phuoc Hai Beach. The purpose of the visit and the day-out activity were to spread the message of giving back to the community and the importance of environmental protection. 68 Orient Overseas (International) Limited Sustainability Report 2018 Promotion of Arts and Culture OOCL Receives Social Capital Builder Logo Award OOCL received the Social Capital Builder Award 2018 which recognised and We believe that exposure to different cultures can enrich people’s lives. By commended individuals and organisations that have contributed to the supporting and sponsoring the performing arts, we aim to stimulate the public’s development of social capital in Hong Kong. Social capital refers to the network interest and appreciation of the cultural treasures from around the world. of relationships among people who live and work in a particular society and enabling that society to function effectively. OOCL demonstrated six core social capital dimensions to the judging panel and they include: social networks, Sponsorship for Musical and Shows mutual help and reciprocity, social cohesion and inclusion, information and communication, social participation, as well as trust and solidarity. As part of the Group's support to the community, we have been bringing a variety of world class performing arts to Hong Kong and around the region to enrich the cultural exposure to the people. In 2018, we brought two awardwinning musicals, ‘CATS’ and ‘EVITA’, to Hong Kong as part of our commitment to supporting the arts, culture and entertainment in the community. Others OOCL Receives Recognition from the Hong Kong Observatory (HKO) In 2018, 46 OOCL vessels participated in the Hong Kong Voluntary Observing Ship Hong Kong Voluntary Observing Ships Scheme (HKVOS) program by the Hong Kong Observatory (HKO) to gather and provide marine climatology data needed to help identify prevailing weather conditions Under the Voluntary Observing Ships Scheme by the Hong Kong Observatory for preparing forecasts and warnings to the maritime community. To recognise (HKO), our ship officers would make regular weather observations and report our outstanding efforts to help improve maritime safety, the HKO presented two the conditions to the HKO for analysis. These observations can provide vital “Gold Awards” to OOCL France and OOCL San Francisco on 17th July 2018. OOCL information about the weather conditions at sea and are particularly important for the timely preparation of warnings of hazardous weather to highly populated Nagoya was also presented a certificate of appreciation for her assistance in areas. deploying a drifting buoy in the South China Sea to measure atmospheric pressure and temperature over the sea surface during the typhoon season. There are over 40 OOCL vessels participating in this voluntary scheme. Awards and Recognition OOCL Honoured with the Ten Years Plus Caring Company Logo We have been recognised by the Hong Kong Council of Social Services (HKCSS) for our years of contributions to caring for our community. We were awarded with the “10 Years Plus Caring Company” status by the HKCSS and it is given to companies that have demonstrated a caring spirit with the aim to cultivating good corporate citizenship and strategic partnership among the business, public and social service sectors. 11 Sustainable Development Goals To continue with our commitment in meeting and exceeding international standards on all our Sustainable Development Goals and objectives, we have introduced new targets to help us better benchmark our performance. 70 Orient Overseas (International) Limited Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainable Development Goals As ethical business behaviour and corporate sustainability are becoming The United Nations (UN) has adopted a set of bold new Global Goals that charts increasingly more important, many companies are taking a closer look at sustainable development for the people and planet by 2030 as a universal, themselves to openly communicate and measure their business values and integrated and transformative vision to make our world more prosperous, impact on the environment and communities in which they operate. inclusive, sustainable and resilient. As a socially responsible company, we are committed to maintaining safe and The OOIL Group supports the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) set out by secure business operations for a sustainable future. To continue with our the UN and we are committed to taking action and formulating the relevant commitment in meeting and exceeding international standards on all our SDGs to contribute to tackling global environmental and social challenges we sustainability goals and objectives, we have introduced new targets to help us face across industries while building on our ESG profile and recognition as an better benchmark our performance. industry leader on sustainability initiatives. Orient Overseas (International) Limited 71 Sustainability Report 2018 Mapping of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UNSDGs) against stakeholders’ expectations Following our latest stakeholder engagement and materiality assessment, four UNSDGs have been selected as most important to our stakeholders, namely Decent Work and Economic Growth, Climate Action, Life Below Water and Partnerships for the Goals. The results provided good insights and serves as a strong foundation for us to formulate our long-term sustainability targets and objectives. In addition to our existing sustainable development goals, we developed targets for the two new SDGs: Goal 8 and Goal 17. Moving forward, we will continue to grow our business responsibly with the help of these directions in our sustainability eﬀorts and join hands with every stakeholder to contribute to sustainable development. Customers Regulators & Authorities Shareholders & Investors Professional & Industry Bodies Employees Vendors & Suppliers Business Partners Academic Institutions Local Communities NGOs Importance to stakeholders Signiﬁcance to business 72 Orient Overseas (International) Limited Sustainability Report 2018 Our 2030 Targets and Actions Ensure inclusive and quality education for all and promote Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern lifelong learning energy for all Education is a fundamental human right and is indispensable The development and use of clean and sustainable energy is towards improving people’s livelihood and supporting the future fundamental to human prosperity. Modern society depends on workforce in our communities. reliable and affordable energy sources to ensure a more sustainable future. Offer scholarships for Universities and employees’ children, vocational Increase 300% of solar energy generation at our sites from the 2016 level by training, internships, and other programs to over 20,000 beneficiaries by 2022. 2030. In Progress 39% Achieved In Progress Generated 1,445 MWh Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts full and productive employment and decent work for all Climate change and extreme weather has already affected The provision of decent working conditions and opportunities is a millions of people around the world with disruptive impact on key to sustainable economic growth. certain economies. Reduce 30% of CO2 emission from the 2010 level by 2020. We are committed to ensuring decent working conditions and equal In Progress Reduced by 36.8% opportunities at the workplace and eliminating all kinds of human and Introduce efficient and environmentally friendly vessels. labour rights issues. In Progress Introduced 21,413 TEU vessels NEW Support the IMO 2050 target of 50% reduction in CO2 emission. NEW Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global resources partnership for sustainable development Ocean routes and sea passages have long been vital conduits for Sustainable development advocacy requires collaborative efforts maritime trade and transportation and some of them are at risk and partnership between governments, private sector and civil from the threats of pollution, resource depletion and climate society. change, many of which are caused by human activities. Participate and initiate over 100 marine life protection and conservation As such, we will continue to strengthen our collaboration with various causes, activities, and programs by 2030, with every Region where OOCL has stakeholders and industry organisations. presence to have been involved in initiative related to Life below Water. In Progress 46% Achieved NEW Orient Overseas (International) Limited 73 Sustainability Report 2018 2019 Objectives and Targets The Environment Healthy & Safety Make every effort to minimise the impact of our business activities on the Maintain high health and safety standards. environment. • Zero occurrence of major maritime accident. • Align with the IMO strategy on the reduction of GHG emissions, reduce • Participate in at least two safety programs. the total annual GHG emissions by at least 50% by 2050 compared to 2008. • No severe or fatal crew injury cases. • Target to avoid and reduce 3% of environmental impact [1] and resource Proactively promote an Onboard Safety Culture. use [2] compared to last year. • Ensure our existing training materials and procedures are up-to-date. • Deploy the new vendor ESG assessment platform. • Regularly review and deliver updates of any international safety • Target to reduce 30% of CO2 emission from the 2010 level by 2020. standards and regulations to every crew member. • No breach of any environmental rules and regulations. • Increase environmental program participations compared to last year. Security Ensure that every measure is in place to maintain the best commercial and Enhance our GHG Assurance and Reporting. operational security standards possible at all times. • Employ independent checker to assure our GHG Scope 1-3 emission • Maintain our compliance with C-TPAT, AEO and related security data integrity. programs at all times. [1] ‘Environmental impact’ includes but is not limited to air pollutions, and greenhouse gas • Constantly and meticulously follow any updates regarding security emissions, discharges into water and land, and generation of hazardous and non-hazardous waste. issues. [2] ‘Resource use’ includes but is not limited to materials, energy, and water consumption. Our People The Community Maintain an open environment in the workplace for better staff communication Reinforce commitment to local communities through employee volunteering and corporate culture. activities. • Maintain an average of two hours volunteering service per full time • All staff members are given access to various internal communication employee count. channels based on their job nature and requirements. This access allows our employees to submit feedback, contribute ideas and share knowledge across our global offices for effective collaboration and teamwork. 12 Targets Review Orient Overseas (International) Limited 75 Sustainability Report 2018 Targets Review We established programs or action plans to monitor and ensure our sustainability targets are met. Objectives and Targets aim for continual improvement in sustainability agenda or for minimising the relevant impact. Targets are therefore quantified wherever possible to measure our achievements. ü Environmental Program Participations ü Maintain High Health & Safety Standards ü GHG Scope 1 & 2 Reporting Integrity ü Safety Programs ü GHG Scope 3 Reporting ü Review Safety Training ü Environmental Impact Reduction ü Zero Major Maritime Accidents O Long Term CO2 Emission Reduction ü Security Issues Updates O Resource Use Reduction ü C-TPAT & AEO Compliance ü Review Safety Regulation ü Staff Communication ü No Severe or Fatal Crew Injury Cases ü Employee Volunteering Legend ü Achieved ¡ In Progress 13 Performance Data Summary Orient Overseas (International) Limited 77 Sustainability Report 2018 Performance Data Summary We gather a wide variety of measurable data to help monitor and evaluate our sustainability performance and identify any critical areas for improvement. i GRI Reference Performance Indicators Unit Scale 2017 2018 GRI 301-1 Materials Consumption Paper Metric Tons Actual 130.4 103.3 Cardboard Box Metric Tons Actual 132.6 Printer Cartridge # Actual 3,789 4,217 Battery # Actual 13,582 14,282 Refilled Refrigerant ~ R134a kg Actual 10,030.7 10,302.0 Refilled Refrigerant ~ R404a kg Actual 23,959.3 29,620.7 Refilled Refrigerant ~ R407c kg Actual 1,845.4 2,338.1 GRI 301-2 Recycling Paper Metric Tons Actual 54.1 53.4 Oil Sludge Metric Tons Actual 24,548 25,808 Plastic kg Actual 2,615 8,032 Printer Cartridge # Actual 1,309 3,059 Battery # Actual 3,070 2,435 GRI 302-1, 302-2 Energy Consumption Electricity MWh Actual 86,683.78 83,430.39 Renewable Energy ~ Solar Energy ii kWh Actual 1,124,000 1,445,609 Natural Gas Thermal Actual 50,944 56,418 Fuel Vessels Metric Tons Thousand 1,809.42 1,782.18 Fuel Onshore Litre Thousand 2,270.51 1,555.83 Ethyne kg Actual 2,049 GRI 302-3 Energy Intensity Electricity Intensity kWh/TEU iii Actual 13.76 12.46 Natural Gas Intensity Thermal/TEU Thousandth 8.09 8.42 Fuel Intensity Metric Tons/TEU Actual 0.27 0.27 GRI 303-1, 306-1 Water Consumption, Reuse and Discharge Fresh Water Metric Tons Thousand 227.96 137.88 Water Intensity Metric Tons/TEU Actual 0.036 0.021 Seawater Desalination Metric Tons Thousand 188.23 Seawater for Ballast Exchange Metric Tons Thousand 3,113.13 3,030.78 Water Discharge iv Metric Tons Thousand 227.96 137.88 78 Orient Overseas (International) Limited Sustainability Report 2018 GRI Reference Performance Indicators Unit Scale 2017 2018 GRI 305-1, 305-2, 305-3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Carbon Dioxide (CO2) – Direct v Metric Tons Thousand 5,732.14 5,567.35 Carbon Dioxide (CO2) – Indirect v Metric Tons Thousand 35.32 32.08 Greenhouse Gases (GHG) Business Travel by Air MtCO2e vi Thousand 2.248 2.394 Greenhouse Gases (GHG) Business Travel (Accommodation) MtCO2e Thousand 1.182 Methane (CH4) Direct MtCO2e Thousand 3.05 3.00 Nitrous Oxide (N2O) Direct MtCO2e Thousand 76.41 75.22 Greenhouse Gases (GHG) Total vii MtCO2e Thousand 5,849.17 5,681.23 GRI 305-4 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Intensity Greenhouse Gases (GHG) Intensity MtCO2e/TEU Actual 0.93 0.85 Carbon Dioxide (CO2) Intensity Vessels g/TEU-km Actual 52.20 42.70 GRI 305-5 Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions Export Solar Energy to Local Electricity Grid kWh Actual 70,214 78,035 GRI 305-7 Other Air Emissions Sulphur Oxides (SOx) Metric Tons Thousand 94.10 93.74 Nitrogen Oxides (NOx) Metric Tons Thousand 167.53 164.94 Particulate Matter (PM) Metric Tons Thousand 12.7 12.5 Non-Methane Volatile Organic Compounds (NMVOCs) Metric Tons Thousand 5.57 5.49 Carbon Monoxide (CO) Metric Tons Thousand 5.01 4.94 GRI 306-2 Wastes General Wastes Disposal Metre Cubes Actual 12,063 19,210 General Wastes Incineration Metre Cubes Actual 923 932 Hazardous Wastes Litre Actual 31,434 26,498 General Wastes Intensity Metre Cubes/TEU Thousandth 1.94 2.87 Hazardous Wastes Intensity Litre/TEU Thousandth 1.53 3.96 GRI 306-3 Spills No. of Spills # Actual 0 0 Toxic Waste Spilled Metric Tons Actual 0 0 GRI 307-1 Environmental Incidents Cases of Environmental Incidents # Actual 0 0 Cost of Fines, Penalties or Settlements # Actual 0 0 Orient Overseas (International) Limited 79 Sustainability Report 2018 GRI Reference Performance Indicators Unit Scale 2017 2018 GRI 102-8 Workforce by Region Mainland China % Actual 48.08 48.95 Hong Kong % Actual 13.10 13.24 North America % Actual 8.35 8.20 Europe % Actual 7.75 8.17 Others % Actual 22.72 21.44 GRI 102-8 Employment Type Regular % Actual 94.53 93.13 Contract & Temporary % Actual 5.47 6.87 GRI 102-8, 403-2 Health & Safety No. of Employee Shore Staff FTE viii Actual 8,167 8,213 No. of Employee Sea Staff FTE Actual 2,133 2,108 No. of Employee Consolidated Group Total FTE Actual 10,300 10,321 No. of Fatalities Shore Staff # Actual 0 0 No. of Fatalities Sea Staff # Actual 0 0 No. of Fatalities Consolidated Group Total # Actual 0 0 No. of Cases with the Actual Lost-time Injury ix Shore Staff # Actual 5 14 Lost-time Injury Rate x Shore Staff # Actual 0.0612 0.170 No. of Cases with the Actual Lost-time Injury Sea Staff # Actual 1 6 Lost-time Injury Rate Sea Staff # Actual 0.047 0.285 GRI 401-1 Employee Turnover (Voluntary) Shore Staff % Actual 14.0 12.4 Sea Staff % Actual 10.2 14.4 Consolidated Group Total % Actual 13.2 15.3 By Region Mainland China % Actual 19.5 14.7 Hong Kong % Actual 13.0 13.8 North America % Actual 6.3 6.8 Europe % Actual 10.0 8.2 Others % Actual 10.5 10.7 By Gender Women % Actual 15.3 13.5 Men % Actual 13.8 11.3 80 Orient Overseas (International) Limited Sustainability Report 2018 GRI Reference Performance Indicators Unit Scale 2017 2018 By Age Group Under 30 Years Old % Actual 27.7 22.2 30-39 Years Old % Actual 9.7 9.5 40-49 Years Old % Actual 5.5 5.6 50 Years Old and Above % Actual 3.8 2.6 GRI 102-41 Labour / Management Relation Collective Bargaining Agreements (CBA) xi % Actual 100 100 GRI 404-1 Trainings Employees Trained by Employee Category Executive % Actual 97 94 Managerial % Actual 98 98 General Staff % Actual 92 91 Employee Trained by Gender Male % Actual 93 92 Female % Actual 92 91 Average Training Hours by Employee Category Executive # Hour 8.87 5.37 Managerial # Hour 8.23 8.78 General Staff # Hour 7.89 7.29 Average Training Hours by Gender Male # Hour 8.18 7.43 Female # Hour 7.62 7.25 GRI 404-2 Trainings Online Courses or Exams at ePeopleSmart Enrolled # Actual 26,375 30,612 Competition Compliance Training (participation rate) % Actual 99.49 88.59 Cyber Security Awareness Training (participation rate) % Actual 97.31 91.00 Global SSE Awareness Refresher Course (participation rate) % Actual 92.04 Sexual & Workplace Harassment Training (participation rate) xii % Actual 100.00 100.00 Orient Overseas (International) Limited 81 Sustainability Report 2018 GRI Reference Performance Indicators Unit Scale 2017 2018 GRI 405-1 Breakdown of Workforce (Onshore) By Gender Women in Workforce % Actual 54.33 54.37 Men in Workforce % Actual 45.67 45.63 By Age Group Under 30 Years Old % Actual 37.40 38.63 30-39 Years Old % Actual 33.42 32.77 40-49 Years Old % Actual 17.59 17.23 50 Years Old and Above % Actual 11.59 11.37 GRI 405-1 Nationality Mix of Seafarers Mainland China % Actual 70.0 71.2 Hong Kong % Actual 3.9 3.4 Europe % Actual 1.1 0.6 Malaysia % Actual 3.7 4.4 Philippines % Actual 18.0 17.4 Singapore % Actual 2.8 2.6 Others % Actual 0.5 0.4 GRI 406-1 Human & Labour Rights Incidents of Discrimination & Labour Right Issues xiii # Actual 0 0 Actions Taken in Response to Incidents # Actual 0 0 Incidents of Human Rights Violations xiv # Actual 0 0 Actions Taken in Response to Incidents # Actual 0 0 GRI 205-3 Corruption Anti-corruption Training (participation rate) xv, xvi % Actual 33.3 33.3 Communication of Anti-corruption Policy to Employees xvii % Actual 100 100 Incidents of Corruption # Actual 0 0 Actions Taken in Response to Incidents # Actual 0 0 Cost of Fines, Penalties or Settlements # Actual 0 0 GRI 415-1 Public Policy Political Contributions Made US$ Actual 0 0 82 Orient Overseas (International) Limited Sustainability Report 2018 GRI Reference Performance Indicators Unit Scale 2017 2018 GRI 201-1 Economic Performance Revenue US$ Thousand 6,108,350 6,572,655 Liner Volume TEU Million 6.29 6.69 Carbon Offset Renewable Energy Credits VCU xviii Actual 9,601 12,552 Management Systems Percentage of Owned Vessels with SQE Certification xix % Actual 100 100 Notes: i. The companies under the Group are omitted from the Sustainability Report either due to a low percentage of ownership or insignificant size of the companies. ii. Solar energy was harnessed in the Company’s solar panel installation project in UK. iii. TEU stands for Twenty-Foot Equivalent Unit. iv. Water discharge is assumed to be equivalent to the consumed potable water. All effluent from offices are discharged into the public sewer. Wastewater generated onboard vessels are either treated and discharged to the open sea or being collected by facilities that are authorised by the port authority. All wastewater discharge methods comply with IMO, the local wastewater discharge laws, and adhere to World Health Organisation (WHO) standards. v. All GHG Scopes 1 & 2 emissions data are collected, consolidated, and verified on our OOCL Sustainability Data Collection e-Platform. The data covers all the electricity and fuel consumption from our vessels, global offices, and warehouses. The data are processed with appropriate carbon emission factors as well as related Global Warming Potential (GWP) values obtained from The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Fifth Assessment Report (AR5). The applicable GWP values are: 1 for CO2, 28 for CH4, and 265 for N2O respectively. vi. Metric ton of carbon dioxide equivalent denoted as “MtCO2e”. vii. Emissions of hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), sulphur hexafluoride (SF6), perfluorocarbons (PFCs) and nitrogen trifluoride (NF3) are considered negligible and are not quantified. viii. Headcount is in terms of Full Time Equivalent (FTE). ix. Lost-time Injury means the result in the lost time of a minimum of one day. x. Lost-time Injury Rate represents the number of Lost-time Injuries per 100 employees per year. xi. Percentage of crews covered by Collective Bargaining Agreements (CBA). xii. It is only applicable to North America Liner staff. xiii. Labour issues covers child labour, forced labour, working hours, wage, etc. xiv. Human rights represents workforce diversity, equal opportunities, discrimination, etc. xv. Independent Commission Against Corruption (ICAC) was invited to provide seminar for Hong Kong staff to understand the legal requirements and company policy in preventing corruption; and acquire enhanced knowledge / skills to handle ethical dilemmas at the workplace; and arouse their awareness on the vulnerability and corruption risk at work. xvi. It represents the participation rate of Hong Kong staff. xvii. The updated Code of Conduct with anti-bribery policy is available in an accessible format at our intranet HQ Portal for employees. xviii. VCU stands for Verified Carbon Unit. xix. The general management principles embodied by the ISM Code, ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 have been incorporated in SQE certification requirement. 14 HKEx ESG Reporting Guide Index 84 Orient Overseas (International) Limited Sustainability Report 2018 HKEx ESG Reporting Guide Index Appendix 27 Compliance List Section / Statement Aspect A1: Emissions General disclosure Disclosure statement Approach to Sustainability (p.11); Natural Capital (p.26) KPI A1.1 Type of emissions and data Performance Data Summary (p.78) KPI A1.2 GHG emissions in total tonnes and intensity Performance Data Summary (p.78) KPI A1.3 Hazardous waste produced and intensity Performance Data Summary (p.78) KPI A1.4 Total non-hazardous waste produced and intensity Performance Data Summary (p.78) KPI A1.5 Measures to mitigate emissions and results Natural Capital (p.26-31) KPI A1.6 Handling of waste and reduction initiatives Natural Capital (p.30-31, 41) Aspect A2: Use of Resources General disclosure Disclosure statement Approach to Sustainability (p.11); Natural Capital (p.31) KPI A2.1 Direct / Indirect Energy consumption by type and intensity Performance Data Summary (p.77) KPI A2.2 Water consumption in total and intensity Performance Data Summary (p.77) KPI A2.3 Energy efficiency initiatives Natural Capital (p.26-29); Intellectual Capital (p. 53) KPI A2.4 Issues in sourcing water & water efficiency initiatives Natural Capital (p.30-31) KPI A2.5 Total packaging material Not applicable as our business does not manufacture or sell any physical product Aspect A3: The Environment and Natural Resources General disclosure Disclosure statement Approach to Sustainability (p.11); Natural Capital (p.30-31) KPI A3.1 Description of significant impacts of activities Natural Capital (p.30-33) Aspect B1: Employment General disclosure Disclosure statement Value Chain (p.21); Human Capital (p.51) Aspect B2: Health and Safety General disclosure Disclosure statement Approach to Sustainability (p.11); Human Capital (p.47) Aspect B3: Development and Training General disclosure Disclosure statement Human Capital (p.44-46) Aspect B4: Labour Standards General disclosure Disclosure statement Value Chain (p.21); Human Capital (p.50) Aspect B5: Supply Chain Management General disclosure Disclosure statement Value Chain (p.22) Aspect B6: Product Responsibility Approach to Sustainability (p.11); Intellectual Capital (p.57) / We have covered the information on policies and compliance matters relating to health and safety, advertising, and privacy matters relating to services, General disclosure Disclosure statement except labeling to product, which is not applicable as our business does not manufacture or sell any physical product Aspect B7: Anti-corruption General disclosure Disclosure statement Approach to Sustainability (p.12) Aspect B8: Community Investment General disclosure Disclosure statement Social and Relationship Capital (p.59, 61) Orient Overseas (International) Limited (Incorporated in Bermuda with Limited Liability) 31st Floor Harbour Centre, 25 Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong Telephone: (852) 2833 3888 www.ooilgroup.com Printed on FSCTM certified paper and with soy ink 本書刊採用FSCTM認證紙張及環保大豆油墨印製
