It is a molecule unlike any other, for it makes the world go round. The elusive entity, pursued by everyone alike, is none other than the hydrocarbon molecule the one that forms the basis of all fossil fuel. The golden reserve concocted by Mother Nature is shared and consumed by all, albeit irresponsibly sometimes. We have been living for the molecule for over six decades now, looking for it, processing it, bringing it to people and trying to find judicious ways of using it all at the same time. For us at ONGC, the molecule is what we live by. Content 06 Message from CMD ONGC & Chairman ONGC Group of Companies 10 Message from the Managing Director MRPL 12 Message from the Chief Executive Officer OMPL 14 Message from the Managing Director OPaL 16 Message from the Managing Director OTPC 18 Message from the Director (Exploration) & Director I/c CM & SG ONGC 20 About the Report 22 ONGC – A Pioneer in Energy Sector 33 Reporting what is essential 36 Materiality assessment 38 Creating economic value 39 Awards and recognition 40 Promoting India’s energy security 44 Moving towards a smaller environmental footprint 44 Climate change and energy 45 Energy performance 46 Emissions 47 Energy conservation measures taken in the reporting year 52 Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) 54 Awards and recognition 56 Water and waste management 60 Biodiversity 64 Our People, Our Strength 69 Workforce Competency and Engagement 73 Human rights 74 Safety and security 84 Supply chain 85 Product quality 87 CSR Journey of ONGC 89 Linkage with Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 91 Health Care Initiatives 91 Bringing elderly people to the mainstream 91 Battling Cancer through National Cancer Institute, Nagpur 92 Swach Bharat Initiative 93 Constructing toilets to curb open defecation 93 Clean Himalaya Initiatives 93 Solid Waste Management Project at Rameswaram 95 Promoting education, skill development and livelihood enhancement 95 Key Highlights 96 ONGC Skill Development Institute at Ahmedabad 102 Joint Ventures CSR Expenditure 103 Independent Assurance Statement 107 Content Index A Moment of Pride Shri Narendra Modi, Hon’ble Prime Minister, dedicated the ONGC Corporate Office ‘Deendayal Urja Bhawan’ a LEED Platinum certified Green Building to the nation on September 25, 2017. Hon’ble PM, Shri Narendra Modi launching the ONGC paperless office project at the ONGC Corporate Office, Deendayal Urja Bhawan, New Delhi Message from the Chairman and Managing Director, ONGC & Chairman ONGC Group of Companies Live the Molecule Dear Stakeholders, The ONGC Group of today is known for much more than its exploratory wells the highest number in the last 6 years and accomplishments in its core business area of Exploration & also achieved the highest cycle and commercial speed. Production (E&P). We are a global leader in integrated energy Financially as well, FY’18 proved to be a strong year, with business with significant interests that spans the hydrocarbon higher profits and a healthy dividend payout. ONGC recorded value chain and beyond – be it upstream operations, refining, standalone Revenue from Operations of INR 850,041 Million in petrochemicals, power or renewable energy. At the heart FY’18, as compared to INR 779,078 Million in FY’17. The Profit of this evolution lies our firm commitment to sustainable After Tax (PAT) also increased by over 11% to INR 199,453 growth, knowledge excellence and exemplary governance Million in FY’18 against INR 179,000 Million in FY’17. Total practices. payout to shareholders was INR 84,699 Million with impressive Volatility has been a constant feature of the energy industry, payout ratio (including dividend distribution tax) of 51.1%. particularly in oil and gas sector. This has intensified further Our international E&P business also continued on its road in recent years with heightening of stress on multiple fronts: of growth. ONGC Videsh Limited (OVL), a wholly owned crude oil price movements, geopolitical landscape, climate subsidiary of your company has participation in 41 oil and change concerns and impending global transition to a low gas projects in 20 countries across Europe, Asia, South carbon economy. Despite this surrounding volatility, ONGC America, Africa and the Oceania region. With the acquisition has continued to excel in its core businesses. Domestically, of significant stake in Russia’s Vankorneft in 2016 and 10% it remains the country’s foremost E&P player, with healthy stake by Indian Consortium led by ONGC Videsh in the UAE’s capital commitment levels notwithstanding industry-wide offshore oil and gas field (Lower Zakum) in February 2018, cutbacks on spends in reaction to the price crash. During ONGC Videsh registered highest-ever production of 14.16 FY’18, ONGC made 12 new oil and gas discoveries out of MMtoe of oil and oil equivalent gas in FY’18 (an increase which two discoveries, one each in Cambay and Cauvery of over 10% as compared to 12.80 MMtoe in FY’17). The Onshore Asset, have already been put on production. Reserve company recorded consolidated revenue from operations accretion for the year stood at 67.83 MMtoe. With a Reserve of INR 104,176 Million as compared to INR 100,800 Million Replacement Ratio (RRR) of 1.48, the trend of expanding during FY’17 and Profit after Tax (PAT) of INR 9,815 Million hydrocarbon resource base has continued for the twelfth as compared to the consolidated Profit after Tax of INR 7,573 consecutive year with steady crude production volumes. Million during FY’17. The standalone crude oil production increased to 22.31 MMT A pillar of ONGC Videsh’s business performance is the in FY’18, from 22.25 MMT in FY’17. Natural gas production implementation of a robust risk management framework registered an impressive growth of over 6% as production in aligned with ISO 31000:2009, which has been instrumental in FY’18 rose to 23.48 BCM compared to 22.09 BCM in FY’17. The improving the quality of decision making. ONGC Videsh has cumulative domestic production (inclusive of JV operated a strong commitment towards minimizing environmental properties) also recorded an increase 50.05 MMtoe as impact and ensuring safety in its operations. The company is compared to 48.81 MMtoe in FY’17. Going forward, we certified for Integrated QHSE Management System in line with expect a steady step-up in our domestic hydrocarbon output, primarily led by ramp-up in gas output from key projects ISO 9001:2015 (Quality Management System), ISO 14001:2015 such as KG-DWN-98/2, Daman and Vashishta fields. Drilling is (Environment Management System) and OHSAS 18001:2007 one of the most capital-intensive activities in the E&P process (Occupational Health & Safety Management System). chain and our performance in FY’18 reinforces drilling as one Beyond E&P, acquisition of majority stake (51.11%) in of our key fortes. For the second consecutive year, as many HPCL added further strength to our already respectable as 503 wells were drilled the highest ever. ONGC drilled 119 downstream portfolio. Upon the acquisition, HPCL has 7 become a subsidiary of your Company. While ONGC as a initiative to extend the credit period permissible under CDM Company remains committed to excellence in the core regulation, for another 7 years for a 51 MW Wind Power upstream business, HPCL fits well in the Group’s overall Project in Surajbari, Gujarat. During the year, we also installed integrated Energy approach. Addition of HPCL will provide Solar power plants at Hazira Plant, Vadodara, IPSHEM Goa the Group a pure-play refining and marketing company with and Ankleshwar Asset. The total Capex on Solar based power an extensive retail presence in the country. Together with plants commissioned during the year FY’18 is INR 532.44 MRPL, the refining capacity of ONGC Group today stands at Million. Installation of 115,000 LED lights at various work over 40 MMT, making us the third largest in the country in centres is expected to reduce our electric consumption on terms of Installed capacity. MRPL also had a solid year in its lighting by 50% which translates into a saving of INR 180 operations. It registered highest ever throughput at 16.31 Million annually. MMT in FY’18. The refining unit recorded an impressive GRM Various other measures such as reducing gas flaring and of USD 7.54/bbl. monetization of low pressure gas have also been initiated While sustained operational excellence and steady business at our work centres with the ultimate objective of reducing growth have defined ONGC’s journey over the years, we the carbon footprint of our business. As a result of these firmly believe sustainability is going to be a key theme for aggressive efforts, we reduced our total emissions by all industries in the coming period. In line with the long4.34% and achieved 4.05% reduction in our total energy term vision harboured by ONGC, we recognize the future consumption, year on year. risks and opportunities that the industry presents and are While inaugurating the new corporate office, a LEED Platinum gearing up for the upcoming period of transformation. An certified Green Building of ONGC, on September 25, 2017, approach premised on sound application of technology and Hon’ble Prime Minister exhorted the company to take up a sustainability is what ONGC is embracing for discovering new challenge of developing an energy efficient electric cooking pathways of growth. stove, which would enable cooking through the use of solar ONGC acknowledges climate change as a significant global energy. In response to this challenge, ONGC launched a risk. Keeping this in consideration, we have sanctioned a nationwide ‘Solar Chulha Challenge’ inviting entrepreneurs, scientific study in association with other oil and gas sector scientists, and researchers to participate in the Indigenous PSUs on ‘Climate Change Risks: Preparedness for Oil and Development effort on Design, Development and Gas sector’, conducted by The Energy and Resource Institute Demonstration of Solar Chulha suitable for indoor cooking. (TERI) and Federation of Indian Petroleum Industry (FIPI). We The selected three entries were awarded INR 1 Million, INR also are among the first few domestic companies to bring 0.5 Million and INR 0.3 Million respectively. ONGC will be procuring 1,000 units for demonstration in different regions. carbon mitigation to the forefront. To move decidedly along this direction, we are transitioning towards a paperless office, Safety of employees is considered to be of utmost importance installing solar lights at our installations, eliminating the at ONGC, and the company makes continuous efforts to consumption of single-use plastic across the organization provide a safe working environment to all employees. During and plan to convert all installed lights to LED by the year the financial year, one of ONGC’s Assets, Rajahmundry Asset 2020, among others. was adjudged the Best Onshore Asset for accident-free operations and losing no man hours, amongst all the oil Our green energy portfolio has two operational wind farms and gas companies including the private players for FY’17. with a combined capacity of 153 MW. In-spite of declining Notably, the Asset was also awarded the National Safety gains in carbon markets, we continue to implement Clean Awards for the “Lowest Injury Frequency Rate” in drilling Development Mechanism (CDM) projects under the Kyoto mines category for the year 2013 from Hon’ble President of Protocol. During this financial year, ONGC has taken an India in the year 2017. Live the Molecule Beyond business, our CSR initiatives have also created a Safety, Health and Environment (IPSHEM), Goa received ‘Grow positive impact to the society. At the same time, it also Care India Environment Gold Award’ and Hazira Plant of sensitizes us to our role as an important stakeholder of the ONGC received twin awards ‘Occupational Health and Safety society and environment. In FY’18, ONGC ensured more than Management Award 2017’ and ‘Environment Management 100% utilization of CSR budget, amounting to INR 5,034 Award 2017’ from Grow Care India Foundation (GCI), during Million for its CSR programs with target areas spanning from the financial year. healthcare, sanitation, education, and environment and To communicate our strong focus on ensuring sustainability sustainability. INR 1,844.6 Million of this CSR budget was in our organization, I am happy to present to you the ninth utilised for projects supporting the Swachh Bharat Initiative. sustainability report of ONGC and fifth sustainability report In line with the Government policy, ONGC has also set up a of ONGC group of companies comprising of ONGC Videsh, Start-Up India fund of INR 1,000 Million to foster, nurture and MRPL, OMPL, OPaL and OTPC. The report adheres to ‘core’ incubate new ideas related to energy, and MOUs with 5 startoption of GRI standards for reporting. ups were signed in FY’18. As a result of the consistent efforts to continue as an Sincerely, environmentally conscious and a socially responsible company, ONGC has been awarded with ‘Good Corporate Citizen’ award from PHD Chamber of Commerce during Annual Awards for Excellence-2017, Environmental Sustainability–Company of the Year Award from FIPI, Shashi Shanker Environmental Sustainability Research & Development Award Chairman and Managing Director ONGC at 5th Governance Now PSU Award. The Institute of Petroleum & Chairman ONGC Group of Companies 9 Message from the Managing Director MRPL Dear Stakeholders, With a vision to become a world class refining and on employee welfare and employee relations to ensure longpetrochemicals company, MRPL is striving towards creation term and cordial relationship with all of our employees. The of long-term value through a path of sustained leadership. company takes pride in reporting that not a single man-hour I present to you the fifth consecutive sustainability report was lost on account of any industrial disturbance in the FY’18. of MRPL as part of the ONGC group report. Through this During the year, MRPL ensured that its employees devoted report, we aim to engage with our valued stakeholders 3,552.68 man-days for training, development and learning. and communicate our performance on the three pillars of Safety of employees is an integral part of MRPL’s culture sustainability economy, society and environment. and a non-negotiable pillar of the company’s core strategy. During the year, MRPL has showcased exemplary financial Several awareness programs are undertaken in the refinery and operational performance with strong growth in revenues to ensure safety of people, processes and Assets. The product and record net profit. The company achieved a turnover of portfolio comprises quality products, eco-friendly grades and INR 630,670 Million against a turnover of INR 594,150 Million the processing itself is carried out in an eco-friendly and safe during FY’17, and a profit after tax (PAT) of INR 22,240 Million environment using efficient technologies. against a PAT of INR 36,440 Million incurred during FY’17. MRPL considers sustainability as a major driver for building Through MRPL’s selection of optimal crude mix, better future-readiness in a dynamic market environment. We equipment reliability, timely shutdown adherence and believe that taking cognizance of social and environmental commendable operational discipline, MRPL achieved the challenges and aligning our product offering with changing highest ever gross crude processed of 16.31 MMT for FY’18, consumer needs will help MRPL thrive in the long-term. as against the previous highest of 16.27 MMT during FY’17 With this view, MRPL has retained its focus on maximizing registering an increase of 0.04% in throughput. the use of clean energy and higher energy efficiency in At MRPL, we define progress not just in terms of our refinery operations. During the year, MRPL commissioned economic performance but also in terms of the satisfaction a 6.063 MWp project spread across 34 roof tops within the of our workforce. The company places utmost importance refinery premises, which is the largest solar power project Live the Molecule in a refinery site in India. This is expected to lead to a bring about positive change in the society by enhancing the significant improvement in energy efficiency of the refinery. quality of life & economic well-being of the local populace The company continues to design initiatives to reinforce its around our areas of operation. MRPL will continue to add commitment towards environment by reducing fresh water social value for community and surrounding villages with a intake, maximizing recycle of treated effluent and decreasing CSR budget of INR 670.60 Million available in FY’19 sulphur oxides emissions. The company utilized on an average In recognition of our consistent efforts in crating positive processed 2.13 Million imperial gallons per day (MGD) and impact, MRPL bagged Srishti Good Green Governance recycled 2.18 Million imperial gallons per day and thus had (G-Cube) Winners trophy under ‘Manufacturing Sector’ on reduced intake of fresh water demonstration responsible the auspicious occasion of Earth Day (April 22, 2018), and consumption and Production. The company has put in place was also recognized with Platinum Trophy at the 18th Annual resilient quality and environmental management systems, Greentech Environment Award 2018, amongst other awards and became one of the pioneers in Indian Oil & Gas industry and recognitions. to comply with revised ISO 2015 standards and receiving the We are determined to continue our consistent contribution certification during the year. towards achievement of sustainability goals of ONGC group We are devoted to fulfilling our responsibility toward the in an inclusive manner. society and stakeholders, which continues to grow with our growing scale of operations. During the FY’18, MRPL has contributed INR 103 Million towards various community Sincerely, development initiatives, as against INR 14.50 Million spent in FY’17. Our social welfare and community development initiatives are focused on the key areas of rural transformation, education, health and sanitation. The social welfare and community development initiatives were focused on the Venkatesh. M key areas of rural transformation, education, health and Managing Director, MRPL sanitation. The objective of our community initiatives is to 11 Message from the Chief Executive Officer OMPL Dear Stakeholders, ONGC Mangalore Petrochemicals Limited (OMPL) a green augment the capacity utilisation by sourcing Heavy Naphtha field petrochemicals project, is promoted by Oil and Natural from other oil companies to bridge the deficit in supplies, and Gas Corporation Ltd (ONGC), India’s Most Valuable Public to ensure continuous feedstock for plant operation. Sector Enterprise, and Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals The operational performance of the company has been Limited (MRPL) which is a subsidiary of ONGC. With the vision remarkable during the year, with a production of 0.701 MMT to become a world-class leader in petrochemicals industry, Para-xylene, 0.195 MMT Benzene and 0.203 MMT Paraffinic OMPL is tirelessly working towards providing quality products raffinate. The company also achieved a marked improvement and services by means of continuous innovation, learning in export capacity by exporting Para-xylene and Benzene and operational excellence. worth INR 36,140.01 Million and INR 10,175.22 Million, At OMPL, we thrive to achieve sustainability in our business respectively. Consistent product quality, timely delivery and operations, as it supports us in our long-term strategy of undeterred customer focus have ensured a presence for both inclusive growth. We want to create sustainable value for our products in all the major consuming regions. We sourced customers, employees, shareholders and society through special grade Naphtha from domestic and international our business activities. Sustainability is one of our corporate sources to enhance capacity utilization of the complex. values that motivates and inspires our employees. OMPL has also achieved a reduction in demurrage through During the year, OMPL has achieved a turnover of INR consistent efforts in coordination with New Mangalore Port 55,612.94 Million with a loss of INR 4,468.35 Million, mainly on Trust. account of lower margins & availability of feedstock, interest At OMPL, we consider environmental management as a cost, depreciation and lower recognition for deferred tax. In fundamental responsibility, while carrying out day-tospite of this, we have made consistent efforts to increase our day operations. In line with India’s Nationally Determined capacity utilisation. The capacity utilization for the year was Contribution (NDC) as a result of the Paris Agreement on about 88%. We are continuously undertaking measures to Climate Change, we are committed to reduce our GHG Live the Molecule emissions. One of the measures in this direction is the inSafety Day/week 2017 in March 2018. house development and execution of dynamic alarm limit for OMPL continues to maintain cordial and harmonious dual fired heaters, in tandem with CPCB’s guidelines. Process relationships with the collectives and no industrial heaters and gas turbines in the complex are already designed disturbance was observed during FY’18. With regard to to handle environment friendly LNG fuel, as and when human resource development, many employee engagement available. This manifests our commitment to bring down our activities were undertaken in the financial year. The GHG emissions. To optimise our fresh water consumption, percentage share of women employees in the workforce the complex has been designed to utilize treated municipal has increased to 17%. As a special initiative during this year, sewage water in the cooling water system. Women in Public Sector (WIPS) initiative has been constituted OMPL takes full cognizance of its environmental impact and as part of which exclusive training programs were organized actively identifies suitable initiatives. OMPL was actively for women employees, with some of the women employees involved in the Plastic Ban Awareness Programme, and has nominated for external training programs as well. taken an initiative to substitute plastic water bottles with glass In recognition of our efforts, OMPL has been conferred with containers for drinking water in meeting halls and conference the First Prize in Best Safe Industry category in “State level rooms. The ‘Green Belt Development’ project with modern Safety awards-Oil Industries” conducted by Department sophisticated scientific techniques such as drip irrigation, Factories and Boilers, Karnataka. Working in synergy with gravity flow has also been adopted by the company under our group of companies and strategic partners, OMPL is the guidance of Karnataka Forest Department, Karnataka. determined to identify opportunities to leverage on the Ensuring safety of our employees will always be a priority expertise, knowledge and insights of our employees and area for OMPL. To enhance safety, we took various measures stakeholders, to pioneer new ways to address current and including medical check-ups and regular internal mock future challenges. drill exercises considering the various emergency scenarios Being a responsible organization, we conduct business in in plant and non-plant areas. We are committed towards a manner that improves our profitability, while creating imparting continuous trainings to our employees in fire and positive impact on the environment and society. By working safety practices. An offsite mock drill was also conducted in further in this direction, we will ensure the company’s longpresence of District Crisis Group (DCG) to demonstrate the term resilience and sustain our competitive edge, enabling us emergency preparedness of OMPL. As a result of our tireless to deliver greater value to our stakeholders and shareholders. efforts to improve the safety practices of the company, we have been able to achieve a Zero Loss Time Incident (LTI) for the FY’18. Another exemplary indicator of our safety Sincerely, performance is the achievement of 886 Safe working days without LTI which was recorded on 31st March 2018. In order to enhance employee’s awareness and make them more vigilant towards safety, the company also observed Chemical Disaster Prevention week in December 2017, and National Sujir Suresh Nayak Chief Executive Officer, OMPL 13 Message from the Managing Director OPaL Dear Stakeholders, OPaL Plant at Dahej was inaugurated by Hon’ble Prime A robust risk identification and evaluation process has been Minister Shri Narendra Modi in March 2017. instituted at OPaL, which enables us to identify not only the During FY’18, OPaL plant has run at an average capacity of functional, operational, market related and enterprise level around 50%. The capacity utilization is being ramped up, risks, but also various impediments faced by stakeholders. which is expected to reach up to 80% in FY’19. Upon complete We use state-of-the-art technologies to conserve energy, ramp up, OPaL would be producing about 1.4 Million tons of prevent pollution, and reduce wastes and emissions. We have Polymers and 0.5 Million tons of liquid chemicals, generating deployed environmental safeguards, recycling of resources about INR 150,000 Million annually in revenues. During and reutilization of wastes for all projects. We continuously FY’18, OPaL clocked a turnover of INR 60,000 Million through monitor fugitive emissions of hydrocarbons, chemicals and product sales of over 0.8 MMT, both in domestic as well as other materials to minimize the impact on flora and fauna. export markets. OPaL commenced polymer exports in April Plastics are essential for our country and our people. The 2017 and established its presence in 26 countries with superiority of plastic for public use like transportation, “OPaLene” brand. sanitation, food storage, shelters etc. is well established. Sustainable development for OPaL signifies considering Hence our country needs to adopt a philosophy for both short and long term aspirations, and integrating responsible use of plastic and move towards complete reuse economic, social, and environmental considerations into the and recyclability of all plastics. OPaL would play a leading organizational decision making. In addition to creating value role in taking forward this agenda by engaging with all for shareholders, we strive to ensure that our activities are stakeholders. carried out within the purview of applicable environmental Being one of the largest polymer producers in India, we legislations, while simultaneously working for the betterment consider plastic as a product with several advantages in of communities we operate in. Our commitment to inclusive human lives, as it presents unparalleled advantages over development is reflected in our risk management framework. natural resources (such as wood, glass, paper, and aluminium, Live the Molecule among others), and comes with superior functionalities in implementing numerous social welfare activities for the the form of light weight, functional ease, transportation ease, benefit of the local population, identifying three key packaging and aesthetics. Unfortunately, a large fraction of focus areas for CSR activities — education including skill the plastic being used in India ends up in the landfills and is development, healthcare and infrastructure development for harmful to the environment due to poor source segregation improving the quality of life in and around the plant. During practices, lack of waste management infrastructure, and FY’18, OPaL contributed INR 4.1 Million towards CSR projects. inadequate public awareness in general. I sincerely thank all stakeholders who have made our At OPaL, we acknowledge our responsibility to promote operational journey a success, and seek their continued practices for responsible use of plastic. As part of our support in our journey forward. Extended Producers Responsibility (EPR), OPaL takes the lead in creation of “seed – awareness” by conducting interactive Sincerely, awareness sessions with school students across Vadodara. These sessions are centred on responsible use, reuse and recycling of plastic, and aim to develop proactive waste management habits among children and their families. OPaL considers CSR to be a significant driver in promoting Avinash Verma inclusive growth. Since its inception, OPaL has been Managing Director, OPaL 15 Message from the Managing Director OTPC Dear Stakeholders, Sustainability issues are affecting humankind more than it and dry low NOx (DLN) 2.0+ combustor that is environment ever did. Abreast with the present situation and keeping in friendly and helps in achieving efficiency greater than 56%. perspective the future of the planet, ONGC Tripura Power NOx emission is much lower than the prescribed statutory Company (OTPC) is actively pursuing activities to espouse limit. In addition to higher efficiency and lower emissions, Sustainability Development Goals set by United Nations. In combined cycle gas based power plants like OTPC plant can pursuance towards a sustainable world, it gives me immense play a critical role in integration of renewable energy in the pleasure to present our Sustainability Report for the period Indian grid culminating in a clean and green India. FY’18. The plant is registered as Clean Development Mechanism The operations of OTPC is geared towards embracing (CDM) projects with United Nations Framework Convention all the three pillars of sustainability, viz. People, Planet on Climate Change (UNFCCC). The plant is one of the largest and Profit. OTPC is in the business of power generation CDM projects in the country. During the financial year, and continues to be the largest power plant in the North OTPC was recognized for demonstrating highest level of Eastern region. The electricity generation from the plant commitment to the environment. Several awards such as CIIalone meets about one-fourth of the demand of the entire ITC Sustainability Award 2017 for Excellence in Environment region at one of the most competitive prices. During Management, Environment Excellence Award 2017 for Clean FY’18, OTPC sold about 3,894 Million units of electricity in the Generator of the Year – Gas by Mission Energy Foundation region resulting in revenue generation of about INR 12,853 and National EHS Award 2017 for Outstanding Contribution Million that is marginally less than the revenue generated in for Carbon Emission Reduction by World Quality Congress the last financial year. The decline is mainly due to increase in were accorded to OTPC. Operation and Maintenance Cost and lower fuel availability. Social activities are carried out under Corporate Social Natural gas, a clean fuel, is used to generate electricity. The Responsibility (CSR) program that has been carefully tailored plant is configured with ultra-modern heavy duty gas turbines with inputs from local panchayats, government authorities Live the Molecule and villagers. The activities under CSR program are focused to operation. Safety performance is discussed in the committee foster development in the areas of education, sports, health, meetings and status of safety performance is placed in the sanitation, skill development and rural development in and Board meetings on a regular basis. During the year, OTPC around the area of plant operations in Palatana, Tripura. also bagged an award for World-class Safety Practices During FY’18, OTPC made an expenditure of INR 11.70 Million for Business Sustainability by Society of Power & Energy on CSR activities. The aim of the CSR program is to enhance the Professionals (SOPEP). OTPC has certifications in areas of quality of life and economic well-being of the general public Quality Management System (ISO 9001:2008), Environmental and weaker sections of the society. The local community has Management System (ISO 14001:2004) and Occupation appreciated the CSR initiatives taken by OTPC. Health and Safety Management System (OHSAS 18001:2007) At OTPC, employees are considered as its greatest asset in place. and best standards have been adopted for well-being and At OTPC, we believe in continuous adoption of newer quality of life of the workforce. OTPC has taken numerous and innovative technologies to remain competitive and employee friendly initiatives for providing a congenial work sustainable in the dynamic market environment. Being environment. Rewards & recognition programs and other a socially responsible company, it is our responsibility to employee welfare measures like construction of recreational enhance the enabling environment in power sector by facilities have been undertaken. OTPC gives a special focus using eco-friendly technologies for generating power to knowledge sharing, capacity building and nurturing the in an environmentally sustainable manner. I foresee a intellectual capital. A training centre has been constructed brighter future where we carry forward the legacy of for employees and efforts are being made to tie up with Sustainable Growth; safeguarding the economic, social and reputed institutions for efficient learning and training of the environmental interests of our future generations. employees. In order to strengthen communication systems and to keep the employees of the company informed about Sincerely, the achievements of the company, OTPC has started an inhouse magazine “Spandan” that is published on quarterly basis. OTPC attaches highest priority to safety, occupational health and protection of environment in and around its area of Satyajit Ganguly Managing Director, OTPC 17 Message from the Director (Exploration) & Director I/c CM&SG ONGC Dear Stakeholders, The damaging impact of climate disruptions are visible all over in direct emissions and 4.34% in the overall emissions. the globe and the Indian subcontinent is no exception. With This could be achieved through various programmes like one third population living below the poverty line and more reduction in low pressure gas flaring, energy efficient lighting, than 60% of them depending primarily on agriculture for their use of renewable energy etc. Water footprint studies at minimum sustenance, combined with a 7,516 km long coast different workplaces for optimal use of fresh water, rainwater line, India is very vulnerable to climate change effect. With harvesting projects, sewage treatment plants, seawater primary dependence on monsoon for the agriculture, India desalination plants, etc. were taken up for conservation of as a country also is very sensitive to any climate change. The water resources. recent Kerala floods alone resulted in more than 500 deaths Your company has pioneered the Global Methane Initiative and economic losses to the order of INR 200 Billion. (GMI) programme in India, in association with the United To sustain the recent rapid growth of Indian economy, States-Environmental Protection Agency (US-EPA), way back continuous supply of energy is essential. ONGC in pursuit in the year 2007. Through this program, fugitive methane of securing energy supply to the nation, has been striving emissions which are not visible to the naked eyes are detected hard to strike an optimum balance between exploration through an Infrared camera. A dedicated GMI team conducts and exploitation of energy sources and preserving the the leakage detection survey in the process installations environment. Supplying energy for the economic growth and remedial measures are taken to arrest those leakages. and development of the country in an environmentally It pleases me to share that over the years, this programme sustainable manner is our ‘mantra’. alone has prevented emissions of 16.7 MMSCM methane The company is continuously focused on reducing its gas in to the atmosphere with an environmental benefit of emissions. This year we could achieve a reduction of 4.59% 250,000 tCO2e. Live the Molecule While presenting to you the 9th independently assured, GRI we are firmly moving forward to make your company more based sustainability report of ONGC and ONGC group of and more climate resilient through modern technological companies, I thank you for your confidence and investment in interventions. ONGC. Two of the subsidiaries, ONGC-Videsh and MRPL were included in the reporting scope from FY’ 14 and subsidiary Jai Hind! OMPL, joint ventures OPaL and OTPC were also included from FY’17. I assure you that while maintaining our position as a global Ajay Kumar Dwivedi leader in integrated energy business through sustainable Director (Exploration) & Director I/c CM&SG growth, knowledge excellence and exemplary governance, ONGC 19 About the Report ONGC Group began its journey of sustainability reporting nine years ago, and we continue to communicate our performance on environmental, economic and social aspects to its stakeholders through our ninth sustainability report. In our growth journey, we have always placed the strongest emphasis on value creation for our valued stakeholders. This report covers sustainability performance of ONGC; its three subsidiaries — ONGC Videsh, Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Limited (MRPL) and ONGC Mangalore Petrochemicals Limited (OMPL); and two JVs — ONGC Petro additions Limited (OPaL) and ONGC Tripura Power Company Limited (OTPC). For ONGC Videsh, the boundary covers key material aspects across its global operations (through subsidiaries) across the following entities: Imperial Energy (Russia), Mansarovar Energy Colombia Ltd. (Colombia), Greater Nile Petroleum Operating Company (Sudan), San Cristobal Project (Venezuela) and Carabobo (Venezuela). Throughout the report, ONGC Group refers to ONGC, three subsidiaries and the two JVs. This sustainability report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards and Oil and Gas Sector Supplement (OGSS), which is applicable to ONGC, ONGC Videsh, MRPL, OMPL, OTPC and OPaL. The reporting criteria of this report is ‘In Accordance – Core’ and the reporting period is FY’18 (1st April 2017 to 31st March 2018). We engaged an independent external organization, TUV India Private Limited, to provide assurance in line with AA1000 Assurance Standard, and the assurance statement is provided at the end of the report. The GRI content index provided in the report (page 103-106) provides a quick reference to all GRI Standards indicators and standard disclosures. Through this report, we aim to provide our valued stakeholders with a holistic snapshot of ONGC Group’s approach to sustainability, the progress we have made over the years and our future plans. All the sustainability reports published by ONGC Group can be accessed on ONGC’s website: http://w w w.ongcindia.com/wps/wcm/connec t/ongcindia/Home/I nitiatives/ Corporate+Sustainability/ We welcome any feedback from the readers either on the contents of this report or the approach we are taking. For any further details on Sustainability Report FY’18 please contact: Chief-Carbon Management and Sustainability Group (CM&SG), Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited, Tower A, 3rd Floor, Deendayal Urja Bhawan, 5, Nelson Mandela Marg, Vasant Kunj, New Delhi – 110070, Phone Number: 011-26753007; Fax: 011-26129091; E-mail: chief_cmsg@ongc.co.in Live the Molecule Key Highlights: FY’18 8.76% reduction in direct emissions Over 35,500 of ONGC and ONGC energy soldiers Videsh deployed across ONGC Group Replaced 115,000 Conventional lights with LED lights across ONGC 4.2% growth over last year in oil & gas production by ONGC and OVL India’s largest Solar Power Plant in a Refinery commissioned by MRPL with an investment of INR 260 Million INR 532.44 Million spent on solar power projects by ONGC A total of INR 5,193.91 Million spent on CSR projects by ONGC Group Registered 15 CDM projects with UNFCCC, OTPC Zero fatality being one of the achieved by MRPL, largest in India OMPL, OPaL and OTPC 21 ONGC – A Pioneer in Energy Sector ONGC is the largest crude oil and natural gas capital. The leading international business journal company in India, contributing to around 70 Forbes has ranked the Company 3rd largest in percent of India’s total domestic production of India and 246th worldwide based on sales, profit, crude oil and natural gas. It is the only public assets and market value. sector Indian company to feature in Fortune’s The vision of ONGC Group is to be a global leader in integrated ‘Most Admired Energy Companies’ list. It is one energy business through sustainable growth, knowledge of the most valued and largest E&P Company in excellence and exemplary governance practices. ONGC Group the world, and one of the highest profit-making has taken structured initiatives towards value-multiplier and dividend-paying enterprise. ONGC has been integration projects such as Refinery, LNG, Petrochemicals, ranked number one E&P Company in the world by Power, and SEZ, to have presence in the entire hydrocarbon Platts Top 250 Global Energy Company Rankings value-chain. Moving ahead, ONGC Group strives to become an 2017 and 11th among global energy majors based integrated energy provider by expanding its operations and on assets, revenues, profits and return on invested building forward linkages and downstream value additions. E&P Domestic Operations SUBSIDIARIES JOINT VENTURES ASSOCIATES • Overseas E&P • Power 50% • LNG 100% 50% 12.5% • Refinery • Services • Logistics 49.98% 51.11% 71.62% 49% ONGC: 49% MRPL: 51% • Petrochemicals 49.36% ONGC: 32.72% • Pipeline HPCL: 32.72% • SEZ 26% 50% As on 01.08.2018 • HP: Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd. • MRPL: Mangalore Refinery & Petrochemicals Ltd. • OPaL: ONGC Petro-additions Ltd. • OMPL: ONGC Mangalore Petrochemicals Ltd. • OTPC: ONGC Tripura Power Company Ltd. • OTBL: ONGC TERI Biotech Ltd. • MSEZ: Mangalore SEZ Ltd. • DSL: Dahej SEZ Ltd. • PLL: Petronet LNG Ltd. • PHL: Pawan Hans Ltd. Organizational profile of ONGC Group Live the Molecule The Arms of India’s Energy Security ONGC’s PLQP Platform in Krishna Godavari Basin on the Eastern Coast of India 23 ONGC Videsh Products and Services ONGC Videsh, our overseas arm, is a wholly owned subsidiary ONGC & of ONGC and has participation in 41 projects across 20 MRPL OMPL ONGC Videsh countries -Azerbaijan, Bangladesh, Brazil, Colombia, Iraq, Israel, Iran, Kazakhstan, Libya, Mozambique, Myanmar, Crude Oil LPG Paraxylene Namibia, Russia, South Sudan, Sudan, Syria, United Arab Naphtha Benzene Emirates, Venezuela, Vietnam and New Zealand. With a total Natural Gas Gasoline LPG oil and gas reserves (2P) of about 711 MMtoe, ONGC Videsh maintains a balanced portfolio of 15 producing, 4 discovered/ LPG HSD Fuel Gas under development, 18 exploratory and 4 pipeline projects. Fuel Oil Naphtha Hydrogen Over the years, ONGC Videsh has expanded its global Poly Propylene presence significantly and has emerged as the first Indian ParaffinicC2-C3 Mixed Xylene Raffinate company to produce equity oil and natural gas abroad. An ONGC Videsh offshore platform in Vietnam Live the Molecule Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Limited (MRPL) The other subsidiary, MRPL, a Miniratna, has about 7% of diesel and unleaded petrol of high octane, respectively. India’s total refining capacity, with a state-of-the-art 15 Located on the hilly terrains of Mangalore, the refinery Million metric tonne refinery, with two units of Hydrocracking has a versatile design with complex secondary processing & Catalytic Conversions, Petro Fluidised Catalytic Cracking units and a high flexibility to process crudes of various API, (PFCC) and Delayed Coker Unit (DCU) to produce premium delivering a variety of quality products. Panoramic view of MRPL Refinery, Mangalore 25 ONGC Mangalore Petrochemicals Limited (OMPL) OMPL is a green field petrochemicals subsidiary company of ONGC. ONGC holds 49% of equity share capital of OMPL while MRPL holds 51%. The company was incorporated in December 2006, with a registered office in Mangalore, India. OMPL’s Aromatic Complex is spread over 442 acres of land in Mangalore Special Economic Zone (MSEZ) and has a production capacity of 914 KTPA (Kilo-Tonnes Per Annum) Paraxylene and 283 KTPA (Kilo-Tonnes Per Annum) benzene at 100% operational load. Live the Molecule Apart from the three subsidiaries, this report covers the following two JVs of ONGC: Products and Services OPaL OTPC High Density Polyethylene Power Generation Linear Low Density Polyethylene Polypropylene Benzene Butadiene Pyrolysis Gasoline Pygas Carbon Black Feedstock ONGC Petro additions Limited (OPaL) OPaL is a JV company incorporated in 2006, by ONGC and Gujarat State Petroleum Corporation (GSPC) with 26% and 5% stakes, respectively, and co-promoted by GAIL. With a grass root mega petrochemical project at Dahej, Gujarat in the PCPIR/SEZ region, OPaL is poised to become a key player in the polymer industry. With adequate indigenous feedstock supplies, skilled manpower, and ready domestic and international markets, the company has the potential to become one of the best performing operators in the global petrochemical industry. 27 ONGC Tripura Power Company Limited (OTPC) OTPC is a JV company of ONGC, IL&FS Group, India Infrastructure Fund-II and the Government of Tripura. OTPC has been pivotal in transforming the power supply scenario of the entire north-eastern region of India, and has been a key catalyst in its rapid economic development. The first block (363.3 MW) of the power plant has been commercially operational since January 2014, and the second block (363.3 MW) has been operational since March 2015. The power generation project combined with linked transmission project and upstream gas supply project has brought in investments of about INR 100 Billion in the region. Live the Molecule The aspects of organizational profile of ONGC Group, such as products and services, location of office and markets, and ownership structure are provided below: ONGC ONGC Videsh MRPL OMPL OPaL OTPC ONGC Mangalore ONGC Petro additions Location of Oil & Natural Gas ONGC Videsh Mangalore Refinery & ONGC Tripura Power Petrochemicals Limited Corporation Limited Limited Petrochemicals Limited Company Limited Limited 4 Floor, 35, Nutan Bharat th 5, Nelson Mandela 5, Nelson Mandela Kuthethoor P.O., Via Udaipur-Kakraban Mangalore SEZ, Co-operative Housing Registered office Marg, Vasant Kunj, Marg, Vasant Kunj, Katipalla, Mangaluru, Road, Palatana P.O., Permude Village, Society Limited, R.C. Dutt New Delhi 110070, New Delhi 110070, Karnatka-575030 District Gomati, Tripura Mangaluru, Karnataka Road, Alkapuri,Vadodara, India India India 799105, India 574509, India Gujarat390007, India A JV company A Miniratna incorporated by ONGC Ownership and legal Schedule “A” CPSE A petrochemicals and Gujarat State A Schedule A JV company of A Maharatna Public of the Government subsidiary company Petroleum Corporation ‘A’ Miniratna CPSE ONGC, IL&FS Group, Sector Undertaking of India promoted by ONGC (GSPC) with 26% and 5% under the Ministry of India Infrastructure form (PSU) of the Wholly owned and MRPL Under the stakes, respectively, and Petroleum and Fund-II and Government of India subsidiary and Ministry of Petroleum co-promoted by GAIL Natural Gas Govt. of Tripura overseas arm of and Natural Gas Under the Ministry of ONGC Petroleum and Natural Gas Table 1: Summary of organizational profile of ONGC Group Corporate Governance has established suitable policies at the Board level to ensure an ethical and transparent environment in the ONGC Group believes that transparent and effective organization. The Board has defined a Code of Conduct governance systems are crucial for increasing to help fulfil our corporate responsibility towards our accountability and maintaining long-lasting relationships stakeholders. This Code of Conduct ensures that the Board with stakeholders. Our corporate governance framework will have the necessary authority and processes to review ensures that we make timely disclosures and share accurate and evaluate our operations as and when required, and information regarding our economic, environmental and ensuring independence of the decisions made by the Board. social performance, as well as disclosures related to the The code of conduct encourages and promotes exemplary leadership of ONGC Group. ONGC has been continuously governance practices, and is essential for promoting rated ‘Outstanding’ grade Categorization of Public Sector stakeholder confidence in the organization. Enterprise (CPSE) as per Department of Public Enterprises (DPE) guideline on corporate governance. We believe that an active, well-informed and independent board is necessary to ensure the highest standards of corporate governance. Individual At ONGC Group, the Board of Directors (‘the Board’) is at the core of our corporate governance practices. The Board Lea oversees the Management’s functions, Executive Committees rity de and protects the long-term interests of our stakeholders. The teg In rship group strongly believes in complying with all applicable rules and regulations. In the interest of our stakeholders, the Group Stakeholder Board C o m pet Board of Directors ness F air enc e Executive Committees C o m m it m e n t Functional Directors chaired by CMD/MD Organizational Board of Directors and CommitteesONGC Group Corporate governance structure at ONGC Group 29 Size and composition of the Board been formed under the Board across ONGC Group and JVs such as Audit Committee, Nomination and Remuneration At ONGC, we strive to ensure an appropriate mix of executive Committee, Human Resource Committee and Corporate and independent directors in the Board to maintain its Social Responsibility Committee1. The Committees are independence, and separate its functions of governance and required to have meetings at pre-defined intervals to discuss management. As on March 31, 2018, ONGC Board comprised and resolve any persistent issues specific to their domain. The of 17 Directors on the Board, comprising of 6 Functional specific roles, requirements, and modus operandi for Board Directors (including the Chairman and Managing Director) Members and Committee members of these committees can and 11 Non-Executive Directors (out of which 2 Government be found in ONGC’s Code of Conduct for Board Members and Nominee Directors and 9 Independent Directors) appointed Senior Management Personnel2. by the Government of India, as per the requirements of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Listing Regulations. One Integrity and transparency are regarded as core values in woman member has also been appointed as a Board member every business activity of ONGC Group. There is a strong during this reporting year. commitment to act in compliance with the applicable laws and regulations without compromising honesty and integrity Composition of Board in every aspect of the business. ONGC has formulated and uploaded policies/codes on its website in line with the Companies Act, 2013 and the Listing Regulations e.g. Code Pursuit of Integrity Excellence Core Values Accountability of Transparency ONGC Group Non executive Directors Executive//Whole Time Directors Composition of Board in ONGC Commitment Fairness ONGC Group is governed under the leadership of its respective Board members. Under the leadership of the Board, respective strategies, policies and performance of Conduct for Board Members and Senior Management review are undertaken. To streamline the effectiveness of Personnel, Material Subsidiary Policy, Policy of Training of governance across ONGC Group, an ‘Executive Committee’ is Directors, CSR and Sustainability Policy, Risk Management in place that directly reports to the Board of Directors. The key Policy to list a few. A complete list of policies can be referred roles and responsibilities of the executive committees include through the ONGC Annual Report FY’18. reviewing and implementing risk management procedures For ensuring transparency across the organization, ONGC and promoting company strategy. The Independent Directors Group has a strong and effective Whistle Blower mechanism, are provided with the relevant information to ensure the which was implemented in December 2009. A total of 41 stakeholders’ interests are protected. Protected Disclosures have been processed through this To ensure a strong focus on specific issues and expedient mechanism till March 2018. The system ensures that a resolution of various matters, a number of committees have genuine Whistle Blower is granted due protection from any 1 Further details on the functions of the Committees are available in ONGC Annual Report FY’18. 2 Available at https://www.ongcindia.com/wps/wcm/connect/e9f997fc-f96b-4ca3-a626-45388c55ba1c/Amcobm.pdf?MOD=AJPERES&CONVERT_ TO=url&CACHEID=ROOTWORKSPACE-e9f997fc-f96b-4ca3-a626-45388c55ba1c-lZnIeUL Live the Molecule ONGC ONGC Videsh MRPL OMPL OPaL OTPC 1. Audit Committee 1. Audit Committee 1. Audit Committee 1. Committee of 1. Audit Committee 1. Audit 2. Nomination and Remuneration 2. Financial 2. Stakeholders Directors 2. Human Resource Committee Committee Management Relationship 2. Nomination and Committee 2. Nomination and 3. Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee Committee Remuneration 3. Project Review Remuneration Committee 3. Project Appraisal 3. Corporate Social Committee Committee Committee and HSE Responsibilty 3. Audit and Ethics (NRC) 4. Project Appraisal and Review 4. Marketing Committee Committee & Sustainable Committee Committee 3. CSR Committee 4. Human Resource Development 4. Corporate Social 4. Operation 5. Health, Safety and Environment 5. Financial Management and (CSR & SD) Responsibiity Review Committee Management Remuneration Committee Committee Committee 6. Committee on Dispute Resolution Committee Committee 4. Nomination, 5. Share Transfer 7. Corporate Social Responsibility 6. Nominaton & 5. Corporate Social Remuneration and Allotment Committee Remuneration Responsibilty and Human Committee Committee 8. Committee for Issue of Share and Sustainabilty Resource Certificates Management 7. Share Allotment Committee Committee Committee 9. Risk Management Committee 5. Project Appraisal 8. Empowered 10. Research and Development and Execution Committee Committee (PAE) Committee 9. Corporate Social 11. Asha Kiran 6. Operation Review Responsibility / HSE Committee Committee 10. Risk Management Committee 11. Operation Review Committee Committees of the Board at ONGC Group victimization. It is applicable to all employees of the company Identifying risks and opportunities and has been uploaded on the company website. In addition, ONGC has a full-fledged Vigilance Department headed ONGC’s Risk Management Policy by Chief Vigilance Officer (CVO), who holds the rank of a “ONGC shall identify the possible risks associated Functional Director of the company. With a view to maintain with its business and commits itself to put in place his independence, the CVO reports to the Chief Vigilance a Risk Management Framework to address the risk Commissioner of the Government of India. [Refer ONGC involved on an ongoing basis to ensure achievement Annual Report for more details] of the business objective without any interruptions. ONGC shall optimize the risks involved by managing their exposure and bringing them in line with the acceptable risk appetite of the Company.” ONGC Group recognises the importance of timely identification of risks and opportunities for our consistent organizational growth. The Board of Directors have constituted a Board Level Risk Management Committee, 31 which has conducted four meetings till date for reorganising The following are some of the major risks ONGC’s risk management strategy. Currently, ONGC Group faced by ONGC Group: has an Enterprise-wide Risk Management (ERM) framework in line with the requirements of SEBI (Listing Obligations & Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015. ONGC Group has also rolled out a comprehensive Enterprise-wide Risk Management (ERM) Policy throughout the organization. The Audit & Ethics Committee periodically reviews the identified risks and the management options for these risks. In ONGC, a dedicated risk management cell is also functional with specific roles and responsibilities. The risk management covers three broad types of risks: a) Financial risk management through CSA module in SAP b) Strategic risk management (This is dealt with separately under the domain of strategic and corporate planning.) c) Process risk management for the business units across the enterprise Category Risk Description Economic Commodity Price Volatility in oil or natural gas prices affecting operating margins results and future prospects Environmental Natural Disaster Natural catastrophe leading to interrupted or reduced production or industrial accident Operational Industrial Accidents Major accident or oil spill resulting in loss of life, environmental damage, regulatory fines, civil liability, loss of licence to operate and reputational damage Political Geopolitical risks Disruption of supply due to war, civil disturbance, terrorism or other political instability Resource availability Inadequate resource availability Material change in estimates regarding oil and gas reserves or development potential Table 2: Key business risks of ONGC Group ONGC Videsh has established and implemented ERM System factors are mapped in SAP system through workflow by risk as per ISO 31000:2009, wherein risk process to identify, coordinators and approved by risk owners. assess, record, monitor and review risks has been defined. For decision making by top management, risk dashboards Risk registers mapping the identified risks, with their drivers have been developed and rolled out, which shows projects and mitigating factors have been mapped as part of the ERM. on a global map with their risk scores, significant risks of For acquisition of overseas projects, a detailed ‘Zero Based projects on global map, risk heat maps and status of quarterly Risk Review (ZBRR)’ is prepared consisting of all types of risks, compliance. There is a system of internal and external audits covering ERM, HSE, financial, operational, commercial which helps the Management to take an informed decision etc. aspects, which are carried out at different levels and considering the risk profile of each project. ONGC Videsh sometime through joint teams with international partners has developed and implemented SAP GRC-Risk module for and through expert third parties and Government audits. optimal decision making and automated compliance. This Risk Management Committee meets once in six months or module is extensively used where Risk Monthly Report based earlier to review the ERM System and framework, significant on risk events and quarterly compliance of risk mitigation risks and emerging risks. Live the Molecule Reporting what is essential Stakeholder engagement ONGC Group continues to work towards a key input in our decision-making and policies. ONGC has maintaining long-term relationships with actively set up many collaborative platforms such as customer our valued stakeholders both internal and grievance mechanisms, customer satisfaction survey, annual external. We work in close collaboration with and quarterly meetings and employee feedback surveys are our stakeholders which enables us to continually utilised for engaging with our stakeholders. Our stakeholder address all challenges faced. These formal and engagement strategy enables us to identify internal and informal engagement outcomes are discussed at external stakeholders who are affected by our business regular intervals and form the basis of decision operations and further affect our business; this enables us to making by our management. develop platforms for stakeholder-inclusive decision-making. A structured process of stakeholder engagement is adopted During the reporting year, a stakeholder engagement process by ONGC Group to identify the needs and expectations of our was adopted by ONGC Group to identify stakeholders’ needs stakeholders. These identified concerns are incorporated as and expectations. The engagement process consisted of • Establishing the objectives and scope of stakeholder engagement • Identifying internal and external • Shaping the strategy of the stakeholders relevant to ONGC engagement Group & JVs • Setting up tentative means of engagement 1. Plan 2. Identify Stakeholder Centric Approach • Ensuring eﬀective and timely documentation of the 4. Report 3. Engage stakeholder engagement process • Ensuring ongoing engagement and • Exercising transparency in collating consultation with all stakeholders the responses from diﬀerent identified as relevant to the stakeholders organization Stakeholder Engagement Process four key phases — Plan, Identify, Engage and Report. In the stakeholders to understand their needs and concerns. The planning stage, tentative means of engagement were set results of the third phase were used to identify material to interact with key stakeholders identified in the second aspects that need to be communicated by ONGC Group to its phase. In the third phase, ONGC Group engaged with the stakeholders, in addition to reporting its performance. 33 While all stakeholders are important, we consider it essential Stakeholder engagement workshops were conducted in to prioritize the most relevant stakeholders in order to ensure FY’17, where various stakeholders from different functions an effective engagement strategy. Thus, after identification such as environment, safety, human resources, CSR, of stakeholders, we understand the dynamics of influenceadministration, commercials, fire department, legal and impact between identified stakeholders and ONGC. This mechanical were invited. The following types of stakeholders understanding helps us adopt a customized approach and were engaged during the workshop: engagement strategy for different sets of stakeholders. Customers High Shareholders & investors Influence of company over stakeholder Keep satisfied/monitor Key threat or opportunity Employees NGOs Trade Unions Suppliers Local communities Low priority Keep involved and informed Regulatory authorities Contractors Low Society-general public Low High Ability of stakeholder to impact ONGC Group Media Stakeholder Engagement Methods Stakeholder Consultation: FY’17 Key stakeholders identified Key functions consulted Regulatory authorities Health, Safety & Environment Customers Operations Media Human resources Local Communities CSR Vendors/Suppliers Administration Trade associations Commercials Shareholders/investors Fire Employees Legal Stakeholders consulted during materiality workshop Live the Molecule In addition to this stakeholder engagement exercise carried out in FY’17, the following stakeholder engagement methods are adopted by ONGC continue our engagement with stakeholders throughout the year. Key Basis of identification of Channels of Key topics and concerns Stakeholder Expectations of stakeholders stakeholders Communications discussed with stakeholders Group Shareholder, • The economic value • Annual and quarterly • Business growth and • Financial performance Investor of ONGC creates and meetings stability • Risk management distributes wealth for its • ONGC website: investor • Better quarterly reports shareholders. • Entry into new markets relations • Corporate reputation • Expectations of investors • Optimising operational costs can influence the financial • Transparency in corporate • Corporate governance and strategy. governance corruption Customer • Customers are the source of • Annual customer • Ethical and fair marketing • Resolution of customer wealth creation. satisfaction survey • Product quality complaints • Client satisfaction is • Marketing • Quality of products essential for ONGC for its • Pricing of products long-term success. Supplier • Suppliers are important • Pre-bid conference • Fair and accountable • Pricing, quality and safety of business partners for • Vendors’ meet transactions services ensuring sustainable • Transparency in tendering • Issues related to human rights growth. • Contract agreement process • Training and awareness programmes Employee • The capabilities and well• Complaint and • Career development • Career growth prospects being of our employees suggestion box • Performance feedback • Learning and development influence our operational • Grievance redressal programmes performance. • Fair evaluation and mechanism compensation • Trainings • Employees leave a • Seminars significant footprint in • Regard for human rights • Rewards and recognition the organizational work • Employee feedback policies • Occupational health and safety culture. surveys • A comfortable • Work environment and policies organizational culture • Grievance redressal mechanism • Ethics, transparency and accountability Local • Strong and healthy • Participating in • Minimum environmental • Social concerns in the region Community relationships with the local collaborative activities impact on the communities • Minimising negative cultural communities is essential in with NGOs • Recruitment of the people impact identifying needs. • Roundtable conferences from the community • A good environmental with local residents • Supporting the local and social performance • Inviting local economy strengthens the communities to ONGC’s relationship with the events communities. Regulatory • Stakeholders have the • Review meetings • Compliance with relevant • Regulatory compliance Authority capability to influence the regulations • Operational efficiency regulatory authority with • Compliance with national regard to the deployment of • Development of communities and regional policies new legislations or updating • Management of environmental existing legislations. impact Table 3: Stakeholder engagement methods at ONGC Group 35 Materiality Assessment As part of the materiality assessment, ONGC stakeholders. The stakeholder engagement exercise Group engaged with identified stakeholders to played a critical role in identifying and prioritizing understand the key sustainability issues material material issues pertaining to the environmental, to the organization and stakeholders. The principle social and governance aspects. ONGC Group is faced of materiality was applied to define and report with an extensive range of sustainability issues, the economic, social and environmental issues which have been narrowed down to prioritize the that matter the most to our organization and sustainability issues that are significantly material to stakeholders. Material issues are defined as those ONGC Group and our stakeholders. Our approach to of the highest concern to our organization and our materiality assessment is depicted below: • Identifying a laundry list of material issues • Engaging with through industry • Validating the identified Arriving at stakeholders to narrow research and peer and prioritized issues the material down the laundry list of review by the senior most issues which material aspects • Utilizing sources such management define our • Prioritizing the material sustainability as GRI Sustainability • Preparing the issues as Low, Medium approach Topics for Sectors and materiality matrix and High GRI Oil and Gas sectoral disclosures Materiality assessment process We consider materiality assessment as the foundation of consisted of seven phases — defining the scope, identifying forming our sustainability strategy, and therefore, a wellpotential issues, categorising the issues, prioritising the structured approach was adopted for the internal assessment material issues, stakeholder feedback, management buy-in of material issues. The materiality determination process and preparation of materiality chart. Materiality Determination Process Phase-1 Phase-2 Phase-3 Phase 4 Phase 5 Phase 6 Phase 7 Key Steps Involved Defining the Identifying Categorising the Prioritising the Stakeholder Management Materiality chart scope potential issues issues material issues feedback buy-in Defining the scope Creating a broad Categorising Prioritising Seeking feedback Validating • Finalising of the report list of material the identified the material from internal the identified the material in terms of the aspects relevant topics into issues based and external material aspects aspects of locations to the nature environmental, on the strategic stakeholders on internally from ONGC Group • ONGC of the business social and importance to the identified ONGC Group’s top by – ‘High’, • ONGC Videsh operations of economic aspects ONGC Group and material aspects management ‘Medium’ and • MRPL ONGC and its its stakeholders ‘Low’ • OMPL group companies • Preparing the • OPaL through a peer materiality • OTPC review chart Table 4: Materiality Assessment Phases The results of the materiality assessment were analysed and subsequently placed on the grid (see below) that depicts a dual perspective importance to the organisation and impact on society. The analysis of these results revealed an interesting comparison of the aspects. Live the Molecule • Energy security and High reserve accretion • Community • Climate change and engagement energy • Human rights • Water management Impact on Society • Economic performance • Environmental protection Medium • Business ethics and transparency • Supplier engagement • HSE & Security • Biodiversity • Workforce competency & engagement • Product quality • Geopolitics Low • Plant and system efficiency • Material consumption • Technology upgradation • Public policy Low Medium High Impact on ONGC Group Material issues identified by ONGC Group The materiality determination process was concluded with the issues identified as highly material, where the relevant key identification of 18 material issues, where 10 were identified performance indicator for each of the high material issue has as high material issues, five were identified as medium been measured and reported. In comparison to the previous material issues, and three were identified as low material reporting period, three additional material issues that were issues. The content of this sustainability report has been identified include – product quality, public policy, and plant developed to reflect our commitment to the sustainability and system efficiency. Low Medium High • Plant and system efficiency • Business ethics and transparency • Energy security and reserve accretion • Material consumption • Supplier management • Climate change and energy • Public policy • Biodiversity • Water management • Product quality • Economic performance • Geopolitics • Environmental protection • HSE and security • Workforce competency and engagement • Technology upgradation • Community Engagement • Human rights Environmental Social Economic List of material issues identified for ONGC Group 37 Creating economic value Economic performance ONGC Group’s economic performance has been FY’18 proved to be good for ONGC Videsh Limited in terms consistent due to its ability to adapt quickly and of economic performance. Following the acquisition of endure a challenging business environment. The significant stake in Russia’s Vankorneft in 2016, ONGC Videsh year FY’18 witnessed a lot of uncertainties, with led Indian consortium also acquired an important 10% macroeconomic changes having a positive as well stake in the UAE’s offshore oil and gas field (Lower Zakum) as negative effect on our business. Global crude in February 2018. Buoyed by incremental volumes from both prices recorded a strong recovery and more than these assets, overseas hydrocarbon output rose by over 10% doubled from early-2016 levels. This is a positive to 14.16 MMtoe in FY’18 versus 12.80 MMtoe in FY’17. The indicator for the health and growth outlook of consolidated revenue from operations and consolidated the Oil & Gas sector. Withdrawal of USA from PAT during FY’18 stood at INR 104,176 Million and INR the nuclear deal with Iran and subsequent re9,815 Million, as against INR 100,800 Million and INR 7,573 imposition of sanctions on the later demonstrated Million in FY’17, respectively. Going forward, ONGC Videsh’s the significant influence of geopolitics on oil international ventures are going to play a critical role in the and gas markets. Climate change concerns, the realization of ONGC’s long-term growth blueprint as well as remarkable growth of renewables and anticipated furthering sovereign energy diplomacy reach globally. energy transitions have added to the complexity of In the downstream business, MRPL achieved turnover of the industry landscape. INR 630,670 Million in FY’18 against INR 594,150 Million in During the year, ONGC recorded revenue of INR 850,041 FY’17. MRPL earned a profit after tax (PAT) of INR 22,240 Million from operations, as compared to INR 779,078 Million Million during the FY’18 against profit of INR 36,440 Million in FY’17. The company’s Profit after Tax increased by over 11% earned in FY’17. The refining unit also posted an 18% yearto INR 199,453 Million in FY’18, as against INR 179,000 Million on-year growth in its exports. in FY’17. Dividends to shareholder for FY’18 remained healthy ONGC Mangalore Petrochemicals Limited (OMPL), another with a total pay-out of INR 84,699 Million with impressive Petrochemical unit of ONGC having production capacity of pay-out ratio (including dividend distribution tax) of 51.13%. 1.2 MMTPA of Aromatics, initiated operations in FY’15. Close ONGC has consistently maintained a dividend pay-out ratio to 80% of its products, namely Paraxylene and Benzene, are exported. During the year, OMPL achieved a turnover of over 50% over the last 4 years. of INR 55,612.94 Million, and posted a loss of INR 4,468.35 The acquisition of majority stake in state refining entity, Million, mainly on account of lower margins & availability of Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL), was a defining feedstock, interest cost, depreciation and lower recognition move, one that significantly transforms ONGC’s downstream for deferred tax. portfolio. While ONGC in itself remains committed to ONGC Petro additions Ltd (OPaL), a 1.1 MMTPA Ethylene excellence in upstream business, HPCL fits well into the Cracker unit, is one of the largest dual-feed crackers in the group’s integrated energy strategy. HPCL will provide the world today. In a short span of time, the company has Company, a pure-play refining and marketing edge with an established itself in the domestic as well as international extensive retail presence (over 15,000 outlets) in the country, markets, both with respect to quality as well as price. The entailing significant diversification benefits. Together with capacity utilization of the plant was over 70% during the MRPL, the refining capacity of ONGC group today stands at over fiscal FY’19, further reaching 100% utilization toward the end 40 MMT, making us the third largest in the country in terms of of December 2019. installed capacity. Live the Molecule ONGC Tripura Power Company (OTPC), our Power JV in the is mainly due to increase in operations and maintenance cost country’s North-eastern State of Tripura which operates a and low fuel availability. However, OTPC is another noteworthy 726 MW Combined Cycle Gas Turbine Power Plant. During sustainability venture of ONGC group, and a greenest UNFCCCFY’18, OTPC registered total revenue of INR 12,852.90 Million certified power plant of the country. This plant meets about as compared to INR 12,978.90 Million during FY’17. The net 25% of power requirement of North Eastern States. profit for FY’18 has been INR 1,251.30 Million, as compared to The key highlights of ONGC Group’s economic performance profit of INR 1,303.70 Million during FY’17. The decline in profit are provided below: ONGC Economic Performance FY’18 ONGC MRPL OMPL OPaL OTPC Videsh Direct economic value generated (A) FY’18 (INR Million) Revenues — net sales, revenue from investments and 928,876.48 131,507.29 632,882.09 56,418.92 56,072.88 12,852.87 sale of assets Economic value distributed (B) FY’18 (INR Million) Operating costs 206,602.00 33,261.91 448,768.00 56,039.30 49,861.19 110,536.43 Employee wages and benefits 113,810.53 2,328.71 4,173.45 416.19 1,021.93 207.54 Payments to providers of capital (Dividend) 77,641.21 2,0643.60 Note3 4,721.92 Nil 1,685.01 Payments to government (Contribution to Exchequer) 376,088.00 8,666.37 146,330.58 Nil 13,423.19 328.61 Community investments 5,034.35 41.11 103.02 Nil 7.14 11.73 Economic Value Retained = (A B) 149,700.39 66,565.59 33,507.04 (4,758.49) 64,313.45 435.31 Table 5: Economic performance of ONGC Group Awards and recognition In recognition of our economic performance during the year, Indian Chamber of Commerce PSE Excellence Awards in ONGC Group has received some of the most prestigious September 2017. awards: • ONGC bagged the Dun & Bradstreet Corporate Award in • ONGC won the Dainik Bhaskar India’s Pride Award for the Oil and Gas Exploration Sector during the 11th edition ‘Excellence in the Maharatna Category’. The Hon’ble Chief of Dun & Bradstreet Corporate Awards-2017 ceremony Minister of Madhya Pradesh Mr. Shivraj Singh Chouhan held on June 1, 2017. Also ONGC bagged two top awards in ‘Mining: Crude Oil’ and ‘Best Maharatna’ categories, in presented the award at New Delhi on March 28, 2018. Dun & Bradstreet PSU Awards 2017, held on July 25, 2017. • ONGC was declared the Winners in four categories • ONGC ECPF Trust bagged the “Star Performer” award in Corporate Social Responsibility & Sustainability, Human ‘The Retirement Funds Conclave-2017’ on November 17, Resource Management, Corporate Governance and to 2017 in New Delhi on the basis of performance evaluation top it all The Company of the Year, Jury award, at the done by Employees Provident Fund Organization. 3 Finance cost of Rs. 4,404.57 million is included in operating costs. Dividend related to FY’17 amounting to INR 10,515.59 million and Dividend distribution tax of INR 2,140.73 million was paid during the year FY’18. 39 Promoting India’s energy security One of the prime objectives forming the foundation productivity and optimise operating costs, thereby improving of our operations is to promote energy security. India’s energy performance. ONGC has, over the years, proven its capability to During FY’18, ONGC Group contributed significantly to contribute effectively to larger national goals and improving the country’s energy security by expanding priorities. A lot of what we have achieved as the production and exploration volumes. Some of the major country’s flagship energy explorer, has been done achievements of ONGC Group companies are described to support our national goal of achieving longbelow: term energy security. ONGC ONGC Group has a mandate of securing the nation’s energy During the year, ONGC made as many as 12 hydrocarbon security by pursuing E&P activities in India and overseas, discoveries in various basins of the country. Two out of enabled by the best-in-class technologies and collaboration these 12 discoveries i.e., Mattur West-1 (Cauvery onland) with strategic partners. Our primary goals in FY’18 were to and Matar-1 (Cambay onland) have already been monetized keep up the healthy pace of project execution, improve and these prospects are producing since May 31, 2017 and Domestic Domestic Producing Producing AreasAreas Jodhpur Bokaro Gas: 0.006 BCM Gas: 0.002 BCM Assam Mehsana Oil: 0.820 MMT, Gas: 0.447 BCM Oil: 2.049 MMT, Gas 0.212 BCM Jorhat Ahmedabad Oil: 0.151 MMT, Gas: 0.060 BCM Oil: 1.286 MMT, Gas: 0.145 BCM Silchar Gas: 0.001 BCM Ankleshwar Oil: 0.917 MMT, Gas: 1.164 BCM Tripura Cond: 0.003 MMT, Gas: 1.440 BCM Cambay Oil: 0.203 MMT, Gas: 0.010 BCM Rajahmundry Oil: 0.322 MMT, Gas: 0.959 BCM Mumbai Offshore* Eastern Offshore Oil: 16.231 MMT, Gas: 17.243 BCM Oil: 0.008 MMT, Gas: 0.548 BCM (*Includes condensate) Karaikal HP-HT Oil: 0.312 MMT, Gas: 1.194 BCM Oil: 0.002 MMT, Gas: 0.054 BCM Production centres of ONGC across India Live the Molecule January 30, 2018 respectively. With a Reserve Replacement highlights our prudent reservoir management and effective Ratio (RRR) of 1.48 and a Reserve accretion (2P) of 67.83 technological interventions in improving the production. MMtoe, we expanded our hydrocarbon resource base for Natural gas production during FY’18 has been 23.48 Billion the twelfth consecutive year. This has been possible because Cubic Metre (BCM) against 22.09 BCM during FY’17; an increase of extensive exploration in known basins as well as frontier of 6.3% over the last year. This is a significant achievement as plays. E&P, the mainstay of our energy business, will continue it marks the second consecutive year that the Company has to be the principal focus area of the management strategy registered an increase in its domestic natural gas output. and investments in the years to come. Beyond E&P, acquisition of HPCL added further strength to our already respectable ONGC Videsh downstream portfolio. ONGC Videsh, a wholly owned subsidiary of your Company, Our crude production volumes remained steady with a registered highest-ever production of 14.16 MMtoe of O+OEG marked improvement in gas output. Domestic crude oil during the year. ONGC Videsh has a total of 41 projects, and natural gas production of ONGC along with the share in out of which ONGC Videsh is Operator in 14 projects; Joint domestic joint ventures (PSC-JVs) during FY’18 has been 50.04 Operator in 7 projects and remaining 20 are non-operated MMtoe, which is about 2.5% higher than FY’17 production projects. During the year, ONGC Videsh set its foot-prints in (48.80 MMtoe). On standalone basis, crude oil production Israel, Namibia and UAE. ONGC Videsh adopts a balanced from ONGC operated fields has been 22.31 Million Metric portfolio approach and has a combination of 15 producing, 4 Tonnes (MMT), against production of 22.25 MMT during FY’17. discovered/ under development, 18 exploration projects and Considering the largely mature producing field portfolio, it 4 pipeline projects. 70 4.81 Oil & Gas 60 4.37 9.35 ONGC (Oil) Production 50 8.43 1.18 1.13 3.13 ONGC (Gas) 3.28 40 PSC-JV (Oil) 22.09 23.48 30 MMT PSC-JV (Gas) 20 OVL (Oil) 10 22.25 22.31 OVL (Gas) 0 FY’17 FY’18 Oil and gas production from ONGC Group 41 ONGC Videsh led Indian Consortium including Indian Oil Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Corporation Limited (IOCL) and Bharat Petro Resources Limited (MRPL) Limited (BPRL) acquired 10% Participating Interest (PI) During the year, MRPL achieved the highest ever gross crude in Lower Zakum Concession, Offshore Abu Dhabi. The processed of 16.31 MMT, as against the previous highest of production from the field was around 419,000 bopd and the 16.27 MMT during FY’17, registering an increase of 0.25% share of production to Indian Consortium was around 42,000 in throughput. Some of the major highlights of FY’18 are as bopd, out of which ONGC Videsh’s share was around 16,800 under: bopd. An Exploration Block with License 412/“32” in Israel has been awarded by Petroleum Commissioner to Indian • MRPL’s Polypropylene production was 294.5 Thousand MT Consortium on March 27, 2018 with exploration duration of (TMT) during FY’18 as against 264 TMT in FY’17. MRPL’s 3 years. ONGC Videsh is the operator and each Partner of the Polypropylene dispatch was 278.16 TMT during FY’18 as Indian Consortium, i.e. ONGC Videsh, BPRL, IOCL and OIL hold against 263.6 TMT in FY’17. 25% Participating Interest (PI) in the License. To further expand • MRPL’s LPG production and dispatch in FY’18 was 876.8 its operations, ONGC Videsh signed the following memorandum TMT and 873.08 TMT respectively as against 857.9 TMT of understandings (MoUs) during the year: and 855.9 TMT in FY’17. • MoU with TPAO, Turkey: ONGC Videsh has signed a • MRPL has achieved MS Production of 1374.9 TMT in FY’18 MoU with TPAO on July 12, 2017 to evaluate Oil and Gas as against 1219 TMT in the previous FY’17. opportunities in upstream as well as any other mutually MRPL continued to include newer crude grades in the identified and agreed area. processing basket with an aim to diversify crude sourcing. • MoU with PEMEX, Mexico: Earlier, a MoU was signed Qarun Blend from Egypt and Southern Green Canyon from between PEMEX Exploration and Production and ONGC United States were processed in the refinery for the first time. Videsh on September 25, 2014, and the term of this Similarly, efforts to establish newer markets were fruitful when MoU has been extended till September 24, 2019, by MRPL exported approximately 7500 Tonne Polypropylene. an amendment to the original MoU. The MoU aims at The new initiatives of MRPL such as setting up of India’s cooperation in the upstream sector in Mexico, India and largest refinery site based solar power project commissioned third countries, and cooperation in fields of technology, in March 2018, is expected to continue improving the energy human resource, research and development. efficiency of the organization. • MoU with GeoPark, Latin America: ONGC Videsh and GeoPark Ltd., a Latin America focused E&P Company, ONGC Mangalore Petrochemicals Limited entered into a MoU on 16th February, 2018 for cooperation (OMPL) in upstream sector in Latin America. The MoU envisages a OMPL is among the top producers of Paraxylene and Benzene long-term strategic partnership between the companies in the country. OMPL’s main products namely, Paraxylene and to jointly acquire, invest in, and create value from upstream Benzene, are 100% exported. The production of Paraxylene oil and gas projects with the objective of building a largewent up from 687 KT during FY’17 to 701 KT during FY’18 (2% scale, economically profitable and risk-balanced portfolio increase). Paraxylene was exported mainly to South East and of assets and operations across Latin America. North East Asian countries during the year. India remained as During the year, the total oil & gas production of ONGC Group a net exporter of Paraxylene during the year and is likely to was 64.21 MMtoe of (O+OEG), an increase of 4.2% from 61.6 continue next year also. Paraxylene prices touched a high of MMtoe in the previous reporting year. USD 991/Mt during the year. Live the Molecule Similarly, Benzene production also increased from 184 KT units during FY’17. The reason for the marginal reduction in during FY’17 to 195 KT during FY’18 (6% increase). Exports of units sold was due to plant maintenance shutdowns, outages Benzene was mainly to Arab gulf. Benzene prices touched a due to grid disturbances and lower fuel availability during high of USD 954/Mt during the year. the year. On the power transmission front, a Joint Venture Company of ONGC Petro additions Limited (OPaL) OTPC, Power Grid Corporation of India Ltd (PGCIL) and NorthONGC Petro additions Ltd (OPaL), a 1.1 MMTPA Ethylene Eastern States has been created North Eastern Transmission Cracker unit, continues to be one of the largest dual-feed Company (NETC). This JV (NETC) has developed 400 KV crackers in the world today. In a short span of time, OPaL double circuit inter-state transmission line between Palatana, has established itself in the domestic as well as international Tripura to Bongaigaon, Assam for evacuation of power from markets, both with respect to quality as well as price. The OTPC’s 726.6 MW Gas Based Combined Cycle Power Plant capacity utilization of the plant was over 70% during the at Palatana, Tripura. The transmission line from Palatana is fiscal FY’19, further reaching 100% utilization toward the end connected to the States of Assam and Meghalaya through of December 2019. sub-stations at Silchar, Azara, Bongaigaon, all three in Assam ONGC Tripura Power Company (OTPC) and Byrnihat in Meghalaya. The transmission line of route length of 662.8 km passes through the highest wind zone in OTPC is playing a significant role in creating energy security for the country by meeting a major part of the energy the hilly terrain, reserved forests as well as cultivated lands in requirements of the North-Eastern region of India. It became the states of Tripura, Meghalaya and Assam. A Shareholder’s the first dividend-paying standalone gas-based power Agreement has been executed by and amongst OTPC, PGCIL, generation company in India in 2017. The power supply from Govt. of Tripura and NETC, and a Deed of Adherence has been OTPC is tied up through Power Purchase Agreements (PPA) entered into with Assam Electricity Grid Corporation Ltd. with states of Assam, Tripura, Nagaland, Meghalaya, Manipur, (AEGCL), Government of Mizoram, Government of Manipur, Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh. During FY’18, OTPC has sold Government of Meghalaya and Government of Nagaland about 3,894 Million units of electricity, as against 4,040 Million pursuant to acquisition of stake in NETC by them. 43 Moving towards a smaller environmental footprint ONGC Group has always remained committed Group has a Committee of Directors (COD) on to protection of environment and continued HSE chaired by an Independent Director. This to work towards initiatives that contributes Board Level Committee oversees and reviews positively to environmental conservation. decisions on policy matters related to HSE. The Group has an integrated HSE policy. We In line with its commitment, ONGC has also continually strive to mitigate the environmental implemented globally recognised Management impact that may arise from our business activities Standards, namely ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and such as exploration, drilling and production by OHSAS 18001, at all its operational work centres. investing in state-of-art technologies, effluent The environmental issues that have been identified as high and solid waste management, environment material issues in the materiality assessment exercise are monitoring and reporting, bio-diversity climate change and energy, water and waste management, conservation efforts, and upgrade and sustenance and biodiversity conservation. of environment management systems. The • Beyond compliance • Triple bottom line disclosure • Low carbon operations & growth • Business sustainability consistent wtih Corporate • DPE guidelines on SD for CPSE's Mission on carbon neutrality -Compliance implications • GHG Mitigation • 5% weightage in the perfor• Identify and develop GHG mance evaluation MoU of ONGC mitigation projects • Policy driven, project based • CDM Projects approach for SD • Carbon disclosure in the • Specific organizational structure company balance sheet • Steer SD projects and activities • Study of Alternate Energy Sources • Develop climate protection • Key responsibilities at various strategy and policy levels • Developing CDM projects • Develop Sustainability Report Alternate Energy & Carbon Management Carbon Management & Clean Development Group (CMG): 2007 Sustainability Group Mechanism (CDM): 2005 (CM&SG): 2012 The Sustainability Journey of ONGC Climate change and energy Climate change is a global challenge which poses significant India to achieve the targets for climate change mitigation and risks to human and natural ecosystems. Following the adaptation. As the leading CPSE in the energy sector of India, submission of India’s Nationally Determined Contribution ONGC Group considers it a major responsibility to actively (NDC) to UNFCCC and global signing of the Paris Agreement address climate change as an issue of pivotal importance. at COP 21 in 2015, various actions are being taken across In line with our responsibility, we design and implement Live the Molecule measures that contribute to a reduction in global Greenhouse ONGC Gas (GHG) emissions through our clean energy and waste FY’16 FY’17 FY’18 management projects, while also adopting measures that Energy Consumption (TJ) 181,362.3 162,542.384 156,033.71 can increase the adaptive capacity of ecosystems around Table 6: Energy Performance – ONGC our areas of operation through our biodiversity initiatives. ONGC is among one of the first few Indian companies to ONGC Videsh initiate climate change mitigation actions. We are aiming FY’16 FY’17 FY’18 to expand the share of renewable energy in our operations Energy Consumption (TJ) 13,637 12,912 9,419.36 through a portfolio of solar and wind power installations at Table 7: Energy Performance – ONGC Videsh multiple locations, and increasing the use of energy efficient infrastructure. To institutionalise our commitment of taking purposeful MRPL action on climate change, ONGC formed a dedicated Carbon FY’16 FY’17 FY’18 Management & Sustainability Group (CM&SG) in 2005, with Energy Intensity (MBN) 80.24 79.61 77.065 a specific mandate of positioning the organization as an Table 8: Energy Performance – MRPL industry leader in sustainable development, and to voluntarily take up carbon management for addressing issues related to OMPL climate change risks and opportunities. The management FY’17 FY’18 has been actively engaging with national and international Energy Consumption (TJ) 15,568.05 16,097.63 climate change forums to ensure the organization stays Table 9: Energy Performance – OMPL 6 current with global climate change negotiations and India’s domestic commitments. OPaL Energy performance FY’17 FY’18 ONGC Group has continued to work towards its commitment Energy Consumption (TJ) 17,400.31 37,736.66 of promoting sustainable energy and combating climate Table 10: Energy Performance – OPaL 7 change, which is showcased through its energy performance. The energy conservation and efficiency measures taken OTPC during the reporting year have led to a significant reduction FY’16 FY’17 FY’18 in the company’s energy consumption. The energy Energy Consumption (TJ) 519.53 634.75 657.75 consumption has showed a declining trend in the last three Table 11: Energy Performance – OTPC years in ONGC, ONGC Videsh, MRPL and OTPC as can be seen from the table below: 4 There is a small change in the energy consumption data of last two years for ONGC, as ONGC has reorganized its energy data by including renewable energy sources in use. 5 Due to a change in the process and unit of measurement of energy intensity at MRPL, the values would be reported in MBN Million British Thermal Units per Barrel of Crude per energy factor of secondary units. 6 Since this is the second sustainability report of OMPL, the data is being reported only for FY’17 and FY’18. The reported value for FY’17 has been updated due to accounting error in the previous year. 7 OPaL started commercial production in the month of Jan-17, hence, energy consumption data is being reported only for FY’17 and FY’18. In FY’17 only Captive Power Plant was in operation. Commercial production at DFCU and Polymer Plants started in 1st quarter of FY’17. Hence in FY’18 energy consumption was more as compared to FY’17. 45 Energy Consumption 310 304.25 from Wind & 300 Solar Power 290 288.2 (in TJ) Terajoule (TJ) 280 270 269 260 250 FY’16 FY’17 FY’18 Table 12: Renewable Energy Consuption in ONGC’s energy mix ONGC has been promoting the pursuit of renewable energy installations, and has been increasing the share of renewable energy consumption in its energy mix. The share of renewable energy in the total energy mix of ONGC is provided below8: ONGC FY’16 FY’17 FY’18 Direct energy consumption (in TJ) 178,940 160,856.25 154,336.20 Indirect energy consumption from purchased electricity (in TJ) 2,422.30 1,686.13 1,697.51 Total energy consumption (in TJ) 181,362.30 162,542.38 156,033.71 Energy consumption from wind and solar power (in TJ) 269.00 304.25 288.20 Share of renewable energy (in%) 0.15 0.19 0.18 The total renewable energy generation from some of the major renewable energy projects of ONGC and the consumption of renewable energy in its own operations is provided below: Renewable Power Plant FY’16 FY’17 FY’18 Total Energy Internal Total Energy Internal Total Energy Internal Generation Consumption Generation Consumption Generation Consumption (KWH) (KWH) (KWH) (KWH) (KWH) (KWH) 102 MW Jaisalmer (WIND) 122,730,000 0 131,860,000 0 116,041,531 0 51 MW Bhuj (WIND) 95,039,701 74,130,966.8 106,270,000 82,890,600 97,401,700 75,973,326 10 MW Hazira (Solar) 0 0 0 0 1,601,595 1,601,595 1 MW Rajahmundry (Solar) 0 0 872,030 634,530 1,457,338 1,131,438 Table 13: Renewable energy projects of ONGC Emissions In oil and gas operations, business growth and consequent dioxide makes up most of our GHG emissions, and it increase in production lead to an increase in GHG emissions, comes predominantly from our processing and downstream and we are continuing to work towards reducing emissions operations, including exhaust from combustion units and offsetting the impact of these emissions. Carbon and flares. 8 Energy outputs for plants with capacities < 1.0 MW are theoretically calculated with 18% cuf. For others the outputs were actually measured. Live the Molecule ONGC Group is committed to consistent reporting of OPaL10 GHG emissions. We have been following World Resources Emission type FY’17 FY’18 Institute (WRI) and World Business Council for Sustainable Direct emissions (MMT of 3.49 8.58 Development (WBCSD) GHG protocol for GHG accounting CO2e) and applied sector-specific guidance provided in the Indirect emissions (Scope 0.05 0.01 2) (MMT of CO2e) Compendium of Greenhouse Gas Emissions Estimations Table 18: Direct and Indirect Emissions for OPaL Methodologies for Oil and Gas Industry developed by the American Petroleum Institute (API). The global emission OTPC factors for estimating emissions of ONGC Videsh and MRPL Emission type FY’16 FY’17 FY’18 are sourced from the latest IPCC database and the grid Direct emissions (MMT of 1.22 1.44 1.42 CO2e) emission factor is sourced from CEA database version 11 Table 19: Direct Emissions for OTPC (published April 2016). ONGC Energy conservation measures taken in the Emission type FY’16 FY’17 FY’18 reporting year Direct emissions (MMT of 10.66 10.23 9.76 CO2e) Indirect emissions (Scope 0.55 0.38 0.39 ONGC 2) (MMT of CO2e) A holistic focus on sustainable growth and a strong intent Table 14: Direct and Indirect Emissions for ONGC to pursue renewable sources of energy enable us to reduce our internal carbon footprint and explore unconventional ONGC Videsh hydrocarbons. The following initiatives were undertaken for Emission type FY’16 FY’17 FY’18 energy conservation during the year: Direct emissions (MMT of 2.08 1.98 1.38 CO2e) Renewable energy: In line with ONGC’s commitment Indirect emissions (Scope 0.11 0.10 0.12 towards expanding renewable energy installations, a 2) (MMT of CO2e) significant capital investment of INR 532.44 Million has been Table 15: Direct and Indirect Emissions for ONGC Videsh made towards solar-based power plants commissioned MRPL during the year. The initiatives for utilizing alternate sources Emission type FY’17 FY’18 of energy taken during the year include: Direct emissions (MMT of 4.23 4.2 • Hazira Plant has installed 10 MWp Solar Power Plant and is CO2e) in operation, with total investment of INR 527.9 Million Indirect emissions (Scope 0.01 0.01 2) (MMT of CO2e) • Roof Top Solar plants of 100 KW and 60 KW have been Table 16: Direct and Indirect Emissions for MRPL installed at Vadodara, with total investment of INR 5.4 Million and INR 4 Million respectively. OMPL9 • 1 MW ground-mounted solar plant at Goa and 5 MW Emission type FY’17 FY’18 ground-mounted solar plant at Vagra, Ankleshwar are Direct emissions (MMT of 1.05 1.45 under execution. CO2e) Indirect emissions (Scope 0.02 • Roof Top Solar Projects are under execution in four states 2) (MMT of CO2e) and are expected to be completed in FY’19. The total Table 17: Direct and Indirect Emissions for OMPL capacity to be installed is about 7.5 MW (Gujarat 3.9 MW, Uttarakhand 1 MW, Assam 1.8 MW and Tripura 0.7 MW). 9 Since this is the second sustainability report of OMPL, the data is being reported only for FY’17 and FY’18. 47 10 OPaL started commercial production in the month of Jan-17, hence, emissions data is being reported only for FY’17 and FY’18. Energy-efficient lighting: One of the key initiatives for to monetize and otherwise flared). This OEM-supported improving energy efficiency has been installation of around technology has been implemented successfully for the first 115,000 LED lights across various work centers of ONGC, time in drilling rigs in India. The technology (called DGB under LED lighting program. This initiative is estimated to system) enables to run rig diesel engines on a mix of diesel reduce electricity consumption on lighting by 50% and is and gas, and facilitates substitution of diesel by gas by upto expected to realize into a saving of INR 180 Million annually. 60%. This substantially reduces the fuel cost as well as the Efficient gas utilization: To optimize gas utilization in greenhouse gas emissions. The success of the pilot project our operations, a study for efficient internal utilization of has resulted in saving of around INR 41.2 Million in FY’18 (after gas was carried out by Technical Services through PCRA, accounting for the cost of gas as well). ONGC is in the process which recommended energy conservation measures to be of implementing this technology at other work centres. implemented in one heater treater in Mehsana Asset on pilot Energy Audits: ONGC continues to conduct energy audits in basis. The implementation of these measures have resulted various rigs/ installations through in-house energy auditors, into a saving of about 33% in gas consumption. Based on the recommending measures for improvement in overall energy success of the pilot project, the initiatives are planned to be efficiency. A total of 218 energy audits were carried out in FY’18. replicated in all work centres across ONGC. Gas flaring reduction: The following measures are being Energy Management System – ISO 50001 is being taken in Onshore Assets towards Gas flaring reduction: implemented across ONGC in phased manner. Central • Augmentation of compression capacity by hiring of new Workshop Vadodara, became the 5th installation, after Uran compressor and revamping of existing compressors in plant, IDT, GCP & GGS-1 Kalol, where it is implemented. The Ankleshwar Asset. process of implementation of the management system at • Hiring of compressors at Geleki and commissioning four more installations is in process. of new 16” gas trunk pipe line from Geleki to Dikhow Dual fuel technology: As a measure to reduce carbon Junction Point (DJP) for transportation of excess gas from footprint, ONGC implemented dual fuel technology in EVGeleki to Lakwa in Assam Asset. 2000-II drilling rig of Ankleshwar Asset on a pilot basis in • Commencement of sour gas off-take by consumer from March April 2017, with the objective of utilizing the lowNarimanam GGS in Cauvery Asset. pressure gas (which is commercially not exploited/ difficult Flare Gas Reduction by Bassein and Satellite Asset (B&S Asset) Gas flaring is one of the most challenging energy and environmental problems facing the world today. It leads to rise of CO2, CH4 and other greenhouse gases (GHG) emissions in the atmosphere. On the other hand, the flared gas is very similar in composition to natural gas and is a cleaner source of energy than other commercial fossil fuels. Through the far sightedness of ONGC’s sustainable vision and efficient execution, B&S Asset achieved sharp reduction in flare gas from 1.93% in FY’16 to 0.86% in FY’18. This was mainly achieved by the following interventions: N.B. Prasad Field which is located in West India in deep waters of Mumbai is producing around 25,000 Barrels of sweet crude per day. Due to efficient execution, B&S Asset is now able to utilize 0.07 MMSCM per day flare gas generated from the process for power generation at FPSO (Floating Production, Storage and Offloading Vessel) and replace the conventional Diesel Generators. B-193 under B&S Asset produces around 12,000 Barrels sour crude everyday has Low Pressure Compressors in place to recover the low pressure associated gas produced along with oil from LP Separator and thus avoiding flaring. Another platform, BPA which presently processes around 13 MMSCM gas and 22,000 Barrels Crude oil per day has LP separators at BCPA2, BPA (ADVEP) and BCPA3 designed with ejector system to divert low pressure gas to process gas compressors and hence avoid flaring this low pressure gas. Live the Molecule Gas Flaring Gas Flaring % w.r.t Production 3.00% 1.93% 2.00% 1.52% 0.86% 1.00% 0.00% FY’ 16 FY’ 17 FY’ 18 Financial Year Gas Flaring All these measures have resulted in major reduction in flaring in B&S Asset. Also as part of the technological intervention, majority of wells of B&S Asset are covered under SCADA along with PSHL and can be remotely/automatically closed in case of tripping of free gas compressors. Through reducing flaring and increasing the utilization of fuel gas we are contributing to energy efficiency and climate change mitigation. To spread larger awareness about the importance of energy month-long ‘Saksham-2018’ and ‘Energy Conservation Day’, conservation, ONGC organized ‘Energy Conservation Awareness thereby educating the masses. Campaigns’ through various activities and programmes such as A Study on Climate Change Risks: Preparedness for Oil and Gas sector As a measure to strengthen the knowledge base on climate change induced risks, ONGC in association with other oil and gas sector PSUs, conducted a Scientific Study on “Climate Change Risks: Preparedness for Oil and Gas sector” by The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI) and Federation of Indian Petroleum Industry (formerly Petroleum Federation of India). The aim of the study is to understand and assess climate change risks to the upstream, midstream and downstream infrastructure of Oil & Gas sector in India, along with challenges due to emerging climate policies and to develop a framework to facilitate integrate climate change risks in to strategic decision making. This study is expected to be a future guidance document for ONGC Group in understanding climate change risks to its business, which would help us design meaningful strategy to address these risks. ONGC Videsh ONGC Videsh continued to put dedicated efforts towards gas. Implementation of this project will help in increasing energy conservation during the year. The key initiatives taken production without the need of flaring associated gas. during the year include: Imperial Energy has installed fuel gas treatment plant at OTF APG Project is in progress at Imperial Energy Russia at an Maiskoye at the inlet of gas based power generation system. approx. cost of USD 49 Million, which will process about 2.7 This resulted in enhanced capacity from 750KW to 900KW, lakh M3/day of rich gas producing LPG, condensate and lean which allowed to reduce number of running systems from 8 to 7. 49 MRPL MRPL accords highest priority for energy conservation and Distillation Unit-2 thereby recovering the heat available takes proactive measures through process optimization, with Crude Distillation Unit-1 Kerosene. implementation and continuous monitoring of several The total investment made by MRPL in energy conservation energy conservation interventions. Some of the major energy equipment during the year is INR 498.5 Million. This has conservation measures implemented during the year are: resulted in a significant reduction in energy consumption of • Flare Gas Recovery System for Phase-3 Hydrocarbon flare 19,635 Mtoe/year, due to energy conservation measures taken header by MRPL during the year. • Largest solar project within a Refinery site in India with an installed capacity of 6.063 MW Peak Annual Name of Initiative Unit Classification Savings • Routing of Crude Distillation Unit-1 Full Range Naphtha Flare Gas Recovery 7,208 Mtoe/ Energy to Crude Distillation Unit-2 Naphtha Splitter Unit, thereby System for Phase-3 year Efficiency & stopping Crude Distillation Unit-1 Naphtha Splitter Unit Hydrocarbon flare header Flare Loss reduction • Recovery of Heat from Crude Distillation Unit-1 short Largest solar project 2,667 Mtoe/ Renewable residue by generating Low Pressure Steam within a Refinery site in year Energy India with an installed Installation • Utilization of Condensate Transfer Pump for Heat capacity of 6.063 MW Recovery Steam Generator-1/2 Make up water heater peak service, thereby stopping of Makeup water heater pumps Routing of Crude 6,960 Mtoe/ Energy Distillation Unit-1 year Efficiency • Improving the Heat transfer efficiency of Heat Recovery Full Range Naphtha Steam Generator-2 by dry ice cleaning to Crude Distillation Unit-2 Naphtha Splitter These measures have resulted in estimated fuel savings Unit, thereby stopping (Standard Refinery Fuel equivalent) of 19,635 SRFT/Year, Crude Distillation Unit-1 Naphtha Splitter Unit equivalent to a net savings of nearly INR 461.2 Million/year, Recovery of Heat from 733 Mtoe/ Energy with an investment of nearly INR 498.5 Million. Crude Distillation year Efficiency In addition to these measures, the measures which are being Unit-1 short residue by generating Low Pressure implemented currently or are under consideration to reduce Steam of consumption of energy include: Utilization of Condensate 412 Mtoe/ Energy Transfer Pump for year Efficiency • Implementation of Diesel Pump around in Hydrocracker Heat Recovery Steam 1&2 Recycle Splitter Column Generator-1/2 Make up water heater service, • Heat recovery from Hydrocracker-1/2 Unconverted Oil by thereby stopping of Cold Demineralized Water Makeup water heater pumps • Routing of Amine Regeneration Unit-3 Flash drum off gas Improving the Heat 1,655 Mtoe/ Energy to incinerator for recovering heat of combustion. transfer efficiency of year Efficiency • O2 enrichment for Sulphur Recovery Unit-2 (SRU): By Heat Recovery Steam generator-2 by dry ice routing O2 enriched air from Nitrogen unit to SRU cleaning thermal reactor, more acid gas can be processed thereby Total (Mtoe/year) 19,635 increasing the steam generation. Table 20: Energy savings from energy conservation measures of MRPL • Routing of Crude Distillation Unit-1 Kerosene to Crude Live the Molecule MRPL’s Transition to Clean Energy – India’s largest Solar Power Plant in a Refinery MRPL has continued to make dedicated efforts in transitioning to a clean energy based model of operation. MRPL has successfully commissioned the largest solar power project located within a refinery site in India. The solar power project with a total capacity of 6.063 MWp is spread across 34 sites within the refinery premises comprising both RCC and sloping sheet steel roofs. Built at a cost of INR 260 Million, these solar plants generate more than 24,000 units per day amounting to more than 8.8 Million units per annum. This is a part of MRPL’s commitment to sustainable development with a focus on renewable energy generation and reduction in carbon emissions. The project is estimated to result in average annual savings of 2,667 Metric tons of Oil Equivalent (Mtoe) per annum, and emission reduction of 8,200 tCO2e. The equivalent monetary savings would be approximately INR 63.50 Million per annum. Energy conservation through optimization of power plant Condensate Transfer Pump capacity at MRPL In its bid to enhance resource and energy efficiency in plant operations, MRPL successfully executed a process modification in the power plant Phase-3 area, involving the interconnection of Makeup Water Heater (MUH) pumps with the Condensate Transfer Pump (CTP), thereby achieving energy savings through optimization of operating load as well as overall equipment running time. In Phase-3 of the power plant, 2 Gas Turbines (GT) along with Heat Recovery Steam Generators (HRSG) are available for cogeneration of power and steam. HRSGs have a provision for heating the MUH at a convection zone. Two MUH feed pumps (capacities 92.4 TPH and 132 TPH, driven by 75 KW and 150 KW motors respectively) are being operated to absorb waste heat before being rejected from the stack. After external audits and multiple rounds of internal discussions, it was observed that the CTP and the MUH pumps were under-loaded and the former contained adequate capacity to sustain the load of one or both of the MUH pumps. Consequently, it was proposed to interconnect CTP discharge to MUH pump discharge of HRSG-1 and HRSG-2, thus utilizing CTP capacity and conserving energy by stopping running MUH pumps. This initiative has brought about a net reduction in power consumption by 170 KWH (to the tune of 40%) and annual electrical power saving of 1360 MWH. Monetary saving due to stopping of the pumps is around INR 8.16 Million, which equates to approximately INR 6/KWH. 51 OPaL OPaL Petrochemical Complex has been designed following • Gas turbine air filter differential pressure is controlled by the best technologies conducive for maximum energy timely replacement of inlet air filters which has a direct conservation. During the financial year, the following effect on plant efficiency. initiatives were taken to promote energy efficiency: • Prompt actions are taken based on periodic performance Dedicated Energy management cell has been started by assessment of gas turbine, steam turbine and cooling CTS department to look after energy optimization and tower to improve the performance. conservation activities. • Cycle of Concentration (COC) optimization is being done In DFCU plant, HVAC chiller fan blades have been replaced by taking real time decision depending upon process from GI to FRP material, which has resulted in to saving of parameters. Maintaining COC on higher side for reduction 126MWH energy (approx.) of raw water consumption. Operational practices of DFCU furnace operations have OMPL been modified, which has resulted in to saving of approx. 100 tons of process steam and equivalent DM water OMPL is committed to addressing climate change by during each bringing up operation. adopting optimization techniques in energy management, as well as by using efficient production and utility systems. C4 Acetylene recovery started in fuel gas. This has reduced During the year, OMPL has commissioned Captive Power Plant requirement of hydrocarbon fuel in furnace leading to successfully, and a peak power load of 41.5 MW was achieved. saving of Ethane to fuel gas make up. Within the design stage of the plant, various conservation OTPC measures were taken and are now implemented effectively. The Process Heaters and Gas Turbines at OMPL are already At OTPC, energy and climate change is addressed by utilising designed to handle environment friendly LNG fuel, as and alternative sources of energy and promoting the use of when available. energy-efficient technologies. OTPC is making use of rooftop solar PV cell for supplying power to 35 garden lamps and In line with its commitment towards optimal use of energy, 5 numbers of street lights. The measures taken for energy OMPL successfully carried out in-house development & conservation during the year are: execution of Dynamic Alarm Limits for Dual Fired Heaters, as directed by CPCB to all refineries in India. Other energy • Reduction in Differential Pressure set points across flow conservation measures under consideration are: control valves resulting in reduction in Auxiliary power consumption by Boiler Feed Pumps. • Heat recovery from the waste process condensate to heat inlet DM water (increases temperature of DM water by • Regular updation and improvements in SOPs to minimise 70°C). the water and fuel consumption across various operations. • Condensate recovery system to minimize the water usage. • Regular training to O&M officials on improving plant efficiency and optimization of start-up time and thus • Recovery of boiler blow down and using it as a makeup to reducing start up energy consumption. cooling tower. • Reduction/removal of excess lights in indoor and outdoor • Installation of timers in all plant lighting systems for application & switching off unnecessary lighting in plant automatic switch on and off. areas. Clean Development Mechanism (CDM)11 • Survey routine has been built up in O&M practice for ONGC commenced its CDM journey in 2005 and has identifying and prompt maintenance of passing high registered 15 CDM projects so far with the United Nations energy valves. 11 The CDM allows emission-reduction projects in developing countries to earn certified emission reduction ( CER ) credits, each equivalent to one tonne of CO2. Live the Molecule Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) which Estimated S. yield (potential) Certified Emissions Reductions (CERs) of No. Project CER/ annum approximately 2.1 Million annually. During the year, ONGC has taken an initiative to extend the credit period permissible 11 Green Building at Kolkata 1,881 under CDM regulation, subject to the merit of the project, 12 Energy Efficient Green Building at New Delhi by 5,944 ONGC Ltd for another 7 years for 51 MW Wind Power Project Surajbari, Gujarat. The project was registered with UNFCCC as a CDM 13 Gas Flaring Reduction Project at GGS, Chariali, 15,172 Sibasagar, ONGC, Assam project in the year 2010 with a credit period of 7 years. The OTPC CDM project in Tripura is one of the largest CDM 14 Replacement of Main Oil Line (MOL) Pumps at 10,539 Neelam & Heera Asset of ONGC projects in the country and during FY’18, 1.69 Million CERs 15 102 MW Wind Power Project, ONGC, Rajasthan, 180,177 were issued to OTPC. India The list of CDM projects registered so far are as under: Total 2,102,769 Estimated Table 21: CDM Projects of ONGC Group S. Project CER/ No. annum ONGC Group’s management has been proactively engaging 1 Waste heat recovery from Process Gas 5,320 with national and international climate change forums to Compressors (PGCs), Mumbai high south (offshore platform) and using the recovered heat ensure the organization stays updated with global climate to heat process heating oil change negotiations and India’s domestic commitments. 2 Up-gradation of Gas Turbine 1 (GT 1) and Gas 7,802 Fugitive methane emissions from oil and natural gas systems Turbine 2 (GT 2) at co-generation plant of Hazira Gas Processing Complex (HGPC) of Oil and are primarily the result of normal operations and system Natural Gas Corporation Limited (ONGC) disruptions. These emissions can be cost-effectively reduced 3 Flare gas recovery project at Uran plant, Oil and 97,740 by upgrading technologies or equipment as well as by Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) Limited improving operations. In August 2007, the company tied 4 Flare gas recovery project at Hazira Gas 8,793 up with the Global Methane Initiative (GMI)12, then known Processing Complex (HGPC), Hazira plant, Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) Limited as the United States Environmental Protection Agency, 5 Amine Circulation Pumps Energy Efficiency at 4,043 to undertake Methane to Market projects and formed a Hazira works of ONGC dedicated in-house team and procured methane emission 6 51 MW wind power project of ONGC at Surajbari, 85,762 detection and measurement equipment, which resulted in Gujarat in India the reduction of about 16.7 MMSCM of fugitive methane over 7 Energy Efficient Green Building at Mumbai by 544 the years. ONGC has also drawn an effective plan to map all ONGC Limited its production installations for fugitive hydrocarbon emission 8 Green Building at Dehradun 735 and make them leak-free by conducting gas leak surveys and 9 Gas flaring reduction at Neelam and Heera Asset 65,811 using Gas Find Infrared Camera to identify methane emission reduction opportunities. 10 Natural gas based combined cycle power plant in 1,612,506 Tripura, India 12 The Global Methane Initiative (GMI) is an action-oriented initiative from USEPA to reduce global fugitive methane emissions to enhance economic growth, promote energy security, improve the environment, and reduce greenhouse gas emission. GMI facilitates cooperative mitigation activities that result in bringing more gas to markets through the Identification, Quantification, and Reduction (IQR) path. 53 Awards and recognition In recognition of our continued efforts towards ensuring Federation of Indian Petroleum Industry (FIPI) during a sustainable development, ONGC Group has received some of ceremony held on August 8, 2017 at New Delhi. the most prestigious awards. 2. ONGC was awarded Best Company in promoting Clean India during Swachhta Pakhwada 2018 instituted by ONGC: Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas, Government of 1. ONGC received the prestigious “Environmental India. Sustainability Company of the Year” Award from the Team ONGC receives the “Environmental Sustainability -Company of the Year” Award from the Federation of Indian Petroleum Industry (FIPI) ONGC awarded Best Company in promoting Clean India; Dr MM Kutty, Secretary MoPNG gives away the Swachhta Award to Mr Shashi Shanker, CMD ONGC Live the Molecule 2. Strategic Performance award instituted by Governance Now in the 5th edition of its PSU awards ceremony. 3. ICICI Lombard & CNBC-TV18 India in the category Best Risk Management Framework & Systems – PSU. MRPL: 1. MRPL was recognized with Silver Medal by International Research Institute for Manufacturing (IRIM) as part of Team ONGC receives the “Environmental Sustainability Research and India Green Manufacturing Challenge (IGMC) for the year Development” Award at 5th Governance Now PSU Awards 2017. 3. ONGC was conferred with “Environmental Sustainability Research and Development” Award by Governance Now OTPC: in its 5th edition of PSU Awards during a ceremony held on 1. Environment Excellence Award 2017 for Clean Generator February 27, 2018 at New Delhi. of the Year – Gas by Mission Energy Foundation, New 4. ONGC received ‘Environment Management Award 2017’ Delhi on 23rd September, 2017. in Platinum Category which was awarded to Hazira plant 2. FAME Excellence Award 2017 in Platinum (Environment of ONGC on August 3, 2017 during a function conducted Management) category by Foundation for Accelerated by Grow Care India Foundation (GCI) at Chandigarh. Mass Empowerment (FAME) New Delhi on 24th September, 2017. IPSHEM-Goa bags prestigious Grow Care India 3. National EHS Award 2017 for Outstanding Contribution Environment Gold Award second time in a row for Carbon Emission Reduction by World Quality Congress, Institute of Petroleum Safety, Health and Environment Mumbai on 23rd November, 2017. (IPSHEM), Goa won the ‘Grow care India environment 4. CII-ITC Sustainability Award 2017 for Excellence in Gold Award’ in recognition of its outstanding Environment Management category by CII-ITC Centre of achievement in Environment Management in Excellence for Sustainable Development, New Delhi on Petroleum Sector on August 3, 2017 at Chandigarh. 12th December, 2017. ONGC Videsh: 1. Golden Peacock Award 2017 in the category PSU (oil production). Team OTPC with CII-ITC Sustainability Award 2017 Golden Peacock Award 2017 in the category PSU (oil production) awarded to ONGC Videsh 55 Water and waste management Water is an essential natural resource, not only ONGC for our operations, but also for the society and Total (in Billion litres) 24.29 17.66 19.32 ecosystems. However, growing demand for Table 22: Sources of water consumption at ONGC freshwater sources and reduction in freshwater ONGC Videsh supplies due to increasing usage has restricted Water Source FY’16 FY’17 FY’18 the availability of good quality water for all. In the Ground water (in Billion litres) 4.78 4.79 4.76 same context, the oil and gas industry faces risks Municipal water (in Billion 0.21 0.22 0 litres) of physical, reputational and regulatory challenges, Surface water (in Billion 0.001 0.0007 0.00097 in terms of access to water. Pursuant to these litres) conditions, ONGC Group has adopted a proactive Total (in Billion litres) 4.99 5.01 4.76 and prudent approach towards management of Table 23: Sources of water consumption at ONGC Videsh water in its operations. MRPL Water Source FY’16 FY’17 FY’18 ONGC Group is committed towards reducing the overall Ground water (in Billion 0 (Note-1) 0 (Note-1) 0 water footprint of our operations. At ONGC Group, the focus litres) is to further efficiently manage water usage by minimizing Collected rainwater (in 0.34 0.38 0.38 the share of fresh water and increasing the share of recycled Billion litres) Municipal water (in Billion 4.42 3.33 3.53 water in the overall water consumption in its operations. litres) Some of the operational areas of the Group are remote, Surface water (in Billion 0 0 19.22 litres) where access to clean water for communities is a challenge. Total (in Billion litres) 22.30 18.86 23.13 The group takes due cognizance of the criticality of water (Note-1) (Note-1) resources for the local community and the ecosystem. To Note-1: Data changed from previous reports track the water consumption and to explore opportunities Table 24: Sources of water consumption at MRPL of further reducing it, regular monitoring and evaluation OMPL is being carried out. Environmental statements are duly Water Source FY’17 FY’18 submitted to the respective regulatory authorities to comply Surface water (in Billion litres) 1.98 2.17 with statutory obligations. Total (in Billion litres) 1.98 2.17 Key highlights of our water performance for FY’18 are as Table 25: Sources of water consumption at OMPL below: OPaL ONGC Water Source FY’17 FY’18 Water Source FY’16 FY’17 FY’18 Surface water (in Billion 9.58 13.06 litres) Ground water (in Billion 1.13 3.34 9.24 Total (in Billion litres) 9.58 13.06 litres) Municipal water (in Billion 5.49 5.08 4.39 Table 26: Sources of water consumption at OpaL litres) OTPC Surface water (in Billion 17.67 9.24 0.95 Water Source FY’18 litres) Surface water (in Billion litres) 4.78 Other sources13 (in Billion 4.74 litres) Total (in Billion litres) 4.78 Table 27: Sources of water consumption at OTPC 13 Other sources include packaged water, desalinated water, rain water and other smaller sources. Live the Molecule Company FY’16 FY’17 FY’18 Volume of Percentage Volume of Percentage Volume of Percentage produced of produced produced of produced produced of produced water (Billion water recycled water (Billion water recycled water (Billion water recycled litres) / reused litres) / reused litres) / reused ONGC 48.92 5.78 58.9714 1.62 60.96 4.82 ONGC Videsh 21.47 5.00 20.80 5.71 14.53 5.90 Company FY’16 FY’17 FY’18 Volume of Percentage of Volume of Percentage of Volume of Percentage of waste water waste water waste water waste water waste water waste water (Billion litres) recycled / (Billion litres) recycled / (Billion litres) recycled / reused reused reused ONGC 0.78 55.80 MRPL 6.19 53.00 6.19 58.46 OMPL 0.42 15 63.00 0.36 34.00 OPaL 0.36 9.95 3.75 72.00 Table 28: Produced / waste water across ONGC Group Sustainable Water Management ONGC is committed to the development of water projects are given below: management practices in a sustainable and responsible o 29 ground water recharge wells at various locations of manner as an integral part of its corporate vision of sustainable Ahmedabad Asset growth. The company has rolled out a policy on Sustainable o Rainwater from rooftop and surface run off harvesting at Water Management (SWM) in the year 2011; incorporating the Green Building, Mumbai principles of Reduce-Reuse-Recharge-Replenish philosophies o Percolation well for ground water recharge at a residential of water management. We exercise responsible stewardship complex, Ankleshwar Asset in various aspects of water management such as freshwater o RWH system as an integral part of C2-C3 plant, Dahej, access and use, handling of produced water during Gujarat extraction, treatment of waste water, and the use of brackish o RWH at Rajahmundry Asset Base Complex or saline water. We proactively undertake initiatives such as water footprint studies, construction of sewage treatment o 16 infiltration wells in IPSHEM, Goa plants, rainwater harvesting systems, setting up of seawater o 2 ground water recharge wells at IRS, Ahmedabad desalination plants, etc. o 6 ground water recharge wells at KDMIPE, Dehradun The major initiatives taken by ONGC for efficient water o 1 ground water recharge well at Base Complex, RFB, management include: Jodhpur o RWH system at K. V. School, NOBH and officers’ club at Water Conservation through Rainwater Agartala, Tripura Asset Harvesting o RWH system at PPCL building, Uran Plant, Raigad, To conserve fresh water, ONGC Group has a rainwater Maharashtra harvesting policy that is mandatory for all future projects. o Bhavale Hill RWH system, Panvel, Maharashtra The details of the company’s existing rainwater harvesting o RWH system at SPIC campus, Panvel, Maharashtra 14 Units of a few data was misquoted in cubic meter instead of Barrel. The error has been rectified and the corrected data is given in this report. 15 The data reported for OPaL and OMPL in FY’17 was inadvertently printed in Billion Liter. 57 o RWH systems at various locations at Western Onshore Waste Management Basin, Vadodara Undertaking waste management practices in a structured manner is integral throughout the oil and gas exploration Waste Water Management and production operation in order to minimize localized One of the major outputs of ONGC’s operations is the risks to the environment and communities, to improve the formation of produced water which is discharged from oil and utilization of resources, and to potentially reduce costs. gas production operations. This water needs to be monitored At ONGC, waste management is considered to be a critical and controlled on a regular basis, since it contains process component of operational efficiency. Environmental issues chemicals as well as contaminants (such as hydrocarbons, have been identified and actions have been initiated based heavy metals, salts, etc.) which occur naturally in oil and gas on the management hierarchy of preventing pollution at reservoirs. We have installed Produced Water Conditioners source, recycling and reuse of waste, treatment and disposal (PWCs) for treatment of produced water across sites. They of the waste. ensure that pollutants stay within prescribed limits before The waste production of ONGC Group and JVs is reported discharging them onshore / offshore. below: ONGC Group monitors the quality of effluent discharge to ONGC return the treated water to water cycle with minimal impact Source FY’16 FY’17 FY’18 on environment. The Group strives for optimal treatment Hazardous Waste (in MT) 27,519 25,220 54,012 of water to recycle produced water for various operational Non-Hazardous Waste (in MT) 30,193 24,157 46,818 processes, such as drilling and water injection. To achieve Table 29: Waste Production at ONGC this, 26 ETPs have been installed across various work centers ONGC Videsh to treat waste water produced during E&P operations. This is Source FY’16 FY’17 FY’18 done along with the processing of oil and gas to meet statutory Hazardous Waste (in MT) 312.0 337.8 332.9 requirements for discharge of treated effluent at surface/ Non-Hazardous Waste (in MT) 851.0 805.7 626.6 subsurface. Drilling rigs have been provided with mobile ETPs Table 30: Waste Production at ONGC Videsh to treat the waste water produced during exploration and MRPL production operations. In order to cope up with enhanced Source FY’16 FY’17 FY’18 liquid production due to high water cut from aging of oil Hazardous Waste (in MT) 2,501 4,800 3,240 fields, 17 new ETPs have been planned to be installed. Non-Hazardous Waste (in MT) 2,035 1,299 2,164 Lining of Drill Site Waste Pit with HDPE Sheets Table 31: Waste Production at MRPL To avoid contamination of ground water quality of OMPL surrounding areas, High Density Polyethylene (HDPE) lining Source FY’17 FY’18 is laid in the waste pit at drill sites. This prevents percolation Hazardous Waste (in MT) 197.85 16 180.50 of waste water into the ground during drilling of wells, thus, Non-Hazardous Waste (in MT) 10.06 7.80 helping us monitor and protect ground water quality. Table 32: Waste Production at OMPL Offshore Monitoring to check Marine Pollution at Indian OTPC Western and Eastern Coasts: Source FY’16 FY’17 FY’18 To study the impact of exploration and production operations Hazardous Waste (in MT) 7.2 3.0 3.9 on marine environment, ONGC has instituted regular offshore Non-Hazardous Waste (in MT) 8.6 7.5 11.2 monitoring at West Coast and East Coast covering the entire Table 33: Waste Production at OTPC operational areas. Monitoring reports are regularly submitted to the regulatory authorities. 16 The value reported for FY’17 has been revised due to improved reporting process being implemented from this year. Live the Molecule ONGC Group has adopted several methods for scientific reprocessing of hazardous wastes such as used/waste oil, disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous waste generated used lead acid batteries and other non-ferrous metal waste. during operations. A three pronged approach is followed for Such waste is sold or auctioned to only those units which waste management: possess Environmentally Sound Management (ESM) facilities o Know your waste footprint – Establish the waste base line and are registered with regulatory authorities. Similarly, for o Undertake waste management project wherever feasible ensuring safe disposal of e-waste, ONGC invites tenders from and apply the firms registered with Central Pollution Control Board for o Manage waste and reporting e-waste disposal, and the items of e-waste are sold to them. ONGC has updated its e-waste management practices, in Drilling waste is a mining/oil and gas industry specific waste, line with the requirements under the E-Waste (Management) and comprises of drilling mud and rock cuttings. These Rules, 2016. may contain additives and contaminants that are naturally occurring in oil and gas reservoirs, including hydrocarbons, Some of our key initiatives in the area of waste management salt, and heavy metals, and can create harm to the during the reporting period are as below: environment if handled in an irresponsible and unplanned o Oily sludge generated during various field activities are manner. Drilling waste and cuttings are disposed, re-used hazardous in nature. For environmentally safe disposal of in land filling or sold to authorized vendors as per industry these wastes, ONGC has established a Joint Venture with TERI which has developed a state-of-the-art “Oil-Zapper” practices. Other wastes generated during exploration and to efficiently biodegrade the oily content in the waste production operations include chemical sludge and tank before its disposal to comply with Hazardous and Other bottom sludge (hazardous in nature). Chemical sludge is Waste (Management and Trans-boundary Movement) collected in lagoons with leachate collection feature where Rules, 2016. water is drained to reduce the quantity of sludge. This chemical o Halon is a liquefied, compressed gas that stops the sludge is disposed by land filling in accordance with norms spread of fire by chemically disrupting combustion. It of the State Pollution Control Board. To treat tank bottom is an extraordinarily effective fire extinguishing agent, sludge, which is mainly organic in content, bio-remediation even at low concentrations with a key benefit is its ability techniques are employed. After the oil is recovered from to extinguish fire without the production of residues the oily waste produced during drilling operations, the that could damage the assets being protected. Montreal remaining waste and oil contaminated soil is subjected to Protocol in 1989 determined the depletion of ozone bioremediation, where the oil content is reduced to less than layer due to Halon and the US Environment Protection Agency banned its manufacture since 1994, the Halon 1% TPH by using a consortium of hydrocarbon degrading was to be replaced with clean agents. However, in vital bacteria developed by the OTBL since March 26, 2011. During oil and gas ONGC offshore installations, replacing Halon the reporting period, an amount of 54,012 MT of oily sludge / based fire extinguishing system is yet to be implemented. oil contaminated waste has been bio-remediated. Therefore, to sustain the existing system, clarification ONGC has well-established systems for management of was obtained from Ozone Cell, MoEFCC that recycled hazardous chemicals and materials. Separate designated Halon 1301 can be purchased only through registered vendors with MoEFCC to continue the operations of areas are provided for storage of hazardous chemicals and all existing fire systems. personnel are provided with Personnel Protective Equipment (PPE), first aid training, and training for safe handling practices o ONGC has revised its Environment & E-Waste Policy in line with newly enacted environmental regulations. of hazardous chemicals. ONGC Group ensures compliance with all the requirements of the regulatory authorities, which regulates the recycling/ 59 Biodiversity Biodiversity is an integral part of our ecosystem potential risks through our operations on local communities. which affects the environmental, social and During EIA study, the baseline environmental status of economic well-being of the country. At ONGC air, water, land and biological environment is carried out. Group, we link business success with our Moreover, ONGC is the first PSU to have mandatory NABETenvironmental and social performance, and have QCI accreditation for conducting EIA studies. The baseline consequently spearheaded several initiatives status of biological environment is established by studying to showcase our stewardship in biodiversity the distribution pattern, community structure, population conservation. We strive to make a positive dynamics, and composition of species of flora and fauna. This contribution to biodiversity conservation, and information plays a major role in preparing the environmental minimize any negative impacts that may occur management plan for the respective site. However, sites on the ecosystems around our areas of operation. allocated prior to the enforcement of EIA notifications may By integrating biodiversity considerations into not necessarily have the baseline assessment data. During our enterprise level decision making process, we the reporting period, Ministry of Environment, Forest and have identified and developed effective strategies Climate Change (MoEFCC) has granted 21 Environment and programs aimed towards conservation of Clearances for Exploration, Development and Production flora and fauna. We have gone beyond applicable activities. These include clearance for 441 wells in onshore legislative requirements across all jurisdictions and offshore; Combined Cycle Power Plant at Hazira; where we operate, to incorporate an inclusive set Desalination Plant and LPG Storage Bullets at Uran; and Shale of management actions comprising of mitigation, Gas exploration in Cambay and KG-PG Basin. compensation and investments towards ONGC, its group companies and joint ventures regularly conservation of biodiversity. organize plantation drives across their operations. Green ONGC Group follows an Environment Management System belts are developed and maintained around major based on the precautionary principle. Therefore, no activity installations to retain the biodiversity of the surrounding is carried out in areas notified as environmentally sensitive. areas, in compliance with various permits obtained from the We practice the implementation of inclusive, scientifically respective regulatory authorities. Tree plantation is carried sound and transparent procedures that integrate land use out by selecting trees as per bio-geo-climatic conditions of planning, biodiversity conservation, and exploration. Prior the area to ensure a desirable rate of survival. The measures to all new ventures and sizeable modifications of existing taken by ONGC Group for biodiversity conservation include processes, our assets incorporate biodiversity considerations flagship programmes which have been ongoing since a long into their environmental impact assessments, along with any time, and some initiatives introduced during the reporting year. Tree Plantation Initiatives ONGC, with the assistance of Gujarat Forest department, has committed to develop nearly 250 acres of land in Gandhar and Vagra areas belonging to ONGC Ankleshwar asset in Gujarat. A tree plantation activity was undertaken on the World Environment Day, for which around 200 saplings of neem species were procured from Gujarat Narmada Valley Corporation (GNVC) Bharuch. Forest department officials not only provided around 5000 saplings of various fruit bearing species (Amla, Jamun, Lemon, Pomegranate, and Guava), but also actively volunteered in the plantation of saplings. The large scale sapling plantation was made possible by the active participation of ONGC and CISF personnel along with Mahila Samiti members, collectives and support workers at Gandhar. Live the Molecule Green Hub Project This is a unique initiative to train 20 youths of the Northeast every year in wildlife videography and documentation. The Green Hub project is implemented in partnership with the Northeast Network. The main objective of the project is to create a team of environment enthusiast having expertise in conservation. In the last three years, 60 youth and women have been trained. The Centre was recently been conferred with Manthan Awards in the category of Environment & Green Energy for leveraging the power of youth to conserve biodiversity through a digital platform. An amount of INR 6 Million has been sanctioned towards implementing this project in the last three years. Mansarovar Energy: Strengthening the production and commercialization of Cocoa Mansarovar Energy, a joint venture of ONGC Videsh and Sinopec Corp., has taken up an ambitious project of strengthening the production and commercialization of Cocoa in Colombia. The project is focused on working with 350 farmers within the Ciénaga del Opón district of the municipality of Barrancabermeja (Santander), area of influence of the Velásquez Galán Pipeline, in order to improve technique and institutionalize their production practices, provide training for sustainable production through better agricultural practices, build capacity of community members through permanent accompaniment to be able to develop and consolidate new markets, both locally and nationally. This project seeks to link rural cocoa producers to the market under advantageous conditions, through an inclusive business model that promotes the work of the communities of the Ciénaga del Opón in the different links of the value chains, creating mutual benefits for the private sector as well as for the communities (shared value). The foregoing, in order to contribute to the reduction of poverty through the generation of capacities, the transfer of technology and the improvement of the economic viability for families. This strategy will benefit the social development, the improvement of the productive capacity, the strengthening of the local management, the promotion of the active participation, the respect of the human rights and the development of healthy environments in the areas of influence of Mansarovar Energy. 61 Mangrove Plantation Project The ‘Mangrove Plantation’ project is a flagship project being undertaken by ONGC for several years, with the aim of protecting and stabilising the shoreline close to ONGC Assets. During Phase-I of the project, plantation of a total of 17,85,250 mangrove saplings, seedlings and propagules in 100 hectare area of Gandhar field, Ankleshwar in Gujarat; and in Phase-II, plantation of a total of 2.16 Million mangrove saplings, seedlings and propagules in Gandhar field, Ankleshwar and near Hazira Plant in Gujarat were taken up. Environmental Protection ONGC strives for excellence and effective management of adopted numerous practices such as maintaining pollution its environmental impacts throughout its value chain, right inventories through monitoring and dissemination of data from research, development and production up to sales on ambient environment and pollution loads, cleaner and end use. Environmental protection is an integral part of production techniques backed by commitment from sustainable development for ONGC. A holistic approach is management, environmental management systems based followed across the organization to devise and implement on continual environmental improvement, and entering operational strategies in a cognitive and accountable manner, into negotiated agreements and government-industry while undertaking corrective actions whenever necessary. partnerships for achieving defined environmental goals. We ensure strict compliance with environmental laws across There were no statutory penalties or fines paid by ONGC all areas where we operate. In order to foster a culture of Group during the reporting period. proactive industrial environmental compliance, we have World Environment Day at OMPL OMPL celebrated the World Environment Day with a tree plantation programme held within OMPL premises and neighbouring schools, in association with Forest Department. During the event, a jute bag was presented to the Karnataka State Environment Minister, followed by distribution of 1,000 jute bags to the participants. Live the Molecule ONGC Videsh also participated in the World Environment Day celebrations, to promote public awareness about nature and environment conservation. World Environment Day at ONGC Videsh World Environment Day was celebrated at ONGC Videsh with the commitment to “Beat Plastic Pollution”. Managing Director and CEO, Mr. Narendra K. Verma, while addressing the gathering, encouraged all employees to re-dedicate all employees for adopting international best practices for sustainable development. Talking on the above theme, MD in his clear actionable message not only directed ONGC Videsh to prohibit the use of plastic water bottles, disposable cups, plastic folders, etc., but also advised all employees to avoid the usage of the same. Celebrating World Environment Day at ONGC Videsh with tree plantation drive in Tomsk, Russia 63 Our People, Our Strength Our human capital We believe that our people are our torchbearers to a path of excellence. ONGC Group strives to build a work culture with ONGC Group has a well-structured human resource a strong value system based on the principles department and effective HR policies in place to retain talent of transparency, inclusivity and diversity. We and promote human capital development. The HR Manual understand that an organization’s human capital and Code of Conduct define organization-level policies is its strongest pillar in creating and maintaining which our employees need to comply with. These policies the economic value of the organization. Our are designed to communicate the ethical values which ONGC objective is to empower and inspire our employees Group aims to imbibe across the workforce for a successful by providing them with continued learning and work culture. The details of our current human capital are development opportunities, periodic incentives provided below: and benefits, and constant knowledge creation. ONGC Group : Workforce Headcount Trend Workforce Headcount FY’16 FY’17 FY’18 ONGC + ONGC Videsh 33,927 33,660 32,265 MRPL 1,812 1,917 1,916 OMPL 465 457 476 OPaL 587 774 951 OTPC 68 66 74 Table 34: Workforce Headcount at ONGC Group ONGC and ONGC Videsh: Total Workforce by Age group Age SC ST OBC GN Total Nos Group Nos % Nos % Nos % Nos % Nos % < 30 626 12.66 427 13.07 1,809 27.50 2,303 13.18 5,165 16.01 30-50 1,803 36.45 1,523 46.60 3,082 46.85 4,654 26.64 11,062 34.28 50-60 2,517 50.89 1,318 40.33 1,688 25.66 10,515 60.18 16,038 49.71 Grand 4,946 100.00 3,268 100.00 6,579 100.00 17,472 100.00 32,265 100.00 Total Table 35: Total Workforce by Age group Live the Molecule ONGC and ONGC Videsh Total Workforce by Employment type, Employment Contract and Region broken down by gender Workforce Strength as on 31-03-2018 SECTOR Gender Regular Tenure Term Deputation In Male 3,216 2 16 1 01Headquarters Female 526 01Headquarters Total 3,742 2 16 1 Male 6,893 80 1 1 02Mumbai Sector Female 608 3 2 02Mumbai Sector Total 7,501 83 3 1 Male 9,197 51 03Western Sector Female 401 1 03Western Sector Total 9,598 52 Male 5,624 15 04Eastern Sector Female 316 1 04Eastern Sector Total 5,940 16 Male 3,618 482 1 10 05Southern Sector Female 240 8 1 05Southern Sector Total 3,858 490 2 10 Male 1,541 7 1 2 06Central Sector Female 85 1 06Central Sector Total 1,626 7 2 2 Grand Total 32,265 650 23 14 Table 36: Total Workforce by Employment type, Employment Contract, Region and Gender As workforce demographics across the world are shifting organizational culture, we strive to maintain diversity in with the emergence of global markets, ensuring workplace our workforce across age groups, gender, and region of diversity has become a business necessity. ONGC Group employees, which is reflected in our hiring practices. Our continuously strives to improve its human resource objective is to imbibe the values of embracing change and management strategy by strengthening the ability to diversity in our organizational policies and practices, which attract diverse and qualified employees. We believe that it is reflected in our workforce. The details on the breakup of is critical to implement inclusive recruitment practices to current workforce by age group, gender and region across ensure optimal acquisition of talent. To promote a healthy ONGC Group is provided below: 65 ONGC and ONGC Videsh Total number and rate of employee turnover by Age Group, Gender and Region & Number of New Hires during FY’18 Employee Turnover during FY’18 Parameters Total Separations New Hires Rate of Turnover < 41 years 119 918 41-45 years 3 3 Age Group 45-50 7 1 50-55 32 4 55-60 2,135 6 Attrition= 0.4% Total 2,296 932 (Resignations/ Average Manpower) Male 2,173 833 Gender Female 123 99 Employee Turnover= 7% Total 2,296 932 (Total Separations/ Average Manpower) Headquarters 314 46 Mumbai Sector 499 245 Average Manpower during the year: 32,946 Western Sector 636 251 Region Eastern Sector 490 80 Southern Sector 204 272 Central Sector 153 38 Total 2,296 932 ONGC and ONGC Videsh ONGC and ONGC Videsh: Breakdown of Employees per Employee Category according to Gender and Minority group Gender Total Strength as on Employee Category Minorities 31-03-2018 Male Female Executives 20,965 19,475 1,490 1,834 Non-Executives 11,300 10,614 686 987 Grand Total 32,265 30,089 2,176 2,821 93% 7% 9% Table 37: Total number and rate of employee turnoverONGC and ONGC Videsh Live the Molecule We believe in workforce that comprises of a good mix of both seasoned and youthful employees. From young professionals to experienced employees, members of different generations are helping us further build our business. Following is the age wise division of our employees working at executives and non-executive positions. Age group wise division of employees at ONGC and ONGC Videsh 51-60 yrs Grand Total 16,038 5,165 11,062 30-50 yrs 3,594 <30 yrs Non-Executives 5,490 2,216 12,444 Executives 5,572 2,949 0 5,000 10,000 15,000 20,000 Table 38: Employee categories ONGC and ONGC Videsh Table 38 Employee categoriesONGC and ONGC Videsh MRPL Total number and rate of employee turnover by Age Group, Gender and Region & Number of New Hires during FY’18 Employee Turnover FY’18 Parameters Total Separations Only Resignations New Hires Rate of Turnover < 30 years 3 3 12 Age Group 30-50 years 4 3 9 >50 years 13 Attrition= 0.31% Total 20 6 21 (Resignations/ Average Manpower) Male 16 4 21 Gender Female 4 2 Employee Turnover= 1.04% Total 20 6 21 (Total Separations/ Mangalore 19 6 18 Average Manpower) Bangalore 1 3 Average Manpower Region Mumbai during the year: 1919 Delhi Total 20 6 21 Table 39: Employee turnover – MRPL 67 OMPL Total number and rate of employee turnover by Age Group, Gender and Number of New Hires during FY’18 Employee Turnover FY’18 Parameters Total Separations New Hires Rate of Turnover < 41 years 12 29 Attrition= 2.57% (Resignations/ Average Age Group 41-45 years 0 0 Manpower) 46-50 years 0 0 Employee Turnover= 2.57% > 51 years 0 0 (Total Separations/ Average Total 12 29 Manpower) Male 10 27 Average Manpower during the Gender Female 2 2 year: 466 Total 12 29 Table 40: Employee turnover – OMPL OPaL Total number and rate of employee turnover by Age Group, Gender and Number of New Hires during FY’18 Employee Turnover FY’18 Parameters Total Separations New Hires Rate of Turnover < 41 years 36 197 Attrition= 4.73% (Resignations/ Average Age Group 41-45 years 1 7 Manpower) 46-50 years 2 7 Employee Turnover= 4.98% > 51 years 5 (Total Separations/ Average Total 39 216 Manpower) Male 38 212 Average Manpower during Gender Female 1 4 the year: 782 Total 39 216 Table 41: Employee turnover – OPaL OTPC Total number and rate of employee turnover by Age Group, Gender and Region & Number of New Hires FY’18 Employee Turnover FY’18 Parameters Total Separations New Hires < 41 years 1 7 41-45 years Attrition= 2.7% Age Group 46-50 years 1 2 (Resignations/ Average 51-55 years Manpower) 56-60 years 1 Total 2 10 Employee Turnover= 2.7% Male 2 9 (Total Separations/ Average Gender Female 1 Manpower) Total 2 10 Headquarters 0 4 Average Manpower during the Region year: 74 Palatana Tripura 2 6 Total 2 10 Table 42: Employee turnover – OTPC Live the Molecule Workforce Competency and Engagement ONGC Group attaches utmost importance to the systems and processes for knowledge management, we development of its human resources. Our continuous are striving to create an ecosystem for knowledge-sharing training programs are developed to build skills across across the Group. These programs not only help the various domains such as business process and behaviour, employees to remain abreast with the new developments technology ethics and are designed to keep the in the sector, but also help them to build a lifelong career competencies of our experienced employees, current trajectory at ONGC Group. These trainings are conducted by and relevant to the business needs. Through our effective various training institutions of ONGC. Institutes Institutes of ONGC of ONGC ONGC Academy KDMIPE Management Development G&G Basin Modeling GEOPIC CEWELL Seismic Data Processing Technology hub Well Logging Dehradun IDT SMP Jorhat Drilling Technology Oil Field Equipment Maintenance Ahmedabad Vadodara IRS Panvel INBIGS Reservoir Management Geo-microbial Prospecting Goa GHRTC IEOT Gas Hydrate Geotechnical & Structural Engineering IPSHEM IOGPT Health, Safety & Environment Production Engineering In order to absorb new and emerging technological advancements pertaining to FY’18 Highlights Trainings oil and gas exploration and production, 1,066 training programmes, including 34 • 167,369 executive man-days spent foreign faculty programmes pertaining to functional disciplines, were organized by on training 17,947 executives ONGC with the best of faculties from India and abroad, during the year. To solidify • 17,898 non-executive man-days the understanding of our employees on business fundamentals, global business spent on training 5,319 nonenvironment and leadership skills, 11.9% of ONGC and ONGC Videsh Executives of executives E-5 level and above were provided with an opportunity to participate in trainings through Centres of Excellence viz. IITs, IIMs, NITs, ICAI etc. To provide intelligence 69 on innovations pertaining to technologies, products, and through which 302 participants got the requisite exposure. processes, along with strategic insights, in the upstream and During the year, OTPC has also constructed a training center, downstream processes in the oil and gas industry, 14 training and planning for external trainings through collaborations programmes were conducted through foreign faculty, with reputed institutions is ongoing. ONGC Total number of training programmes and training man-days during FY’18 Non-Executives Executives No. of No. of Non-ExNo. of Total Name of ProNonecutives FeExecutive FeSl. SC ST OBC ExecuSC ST OBC ManInstitute grammes ExecManmale Man-days male tives days organized utives days ONGC 276 0 0 0 0 0 0 8,876 134,015 1,284 489 1,072 749 13,4015 1 Academy SDC, 31 748 1,620 134 56 264 146 352 673 61 26 42 48 2,293 2 Mumbai SDC, 41 396 1,570 91 13 189 23 536 1,607 125 20 137 28 3,177 3 Chennai SDC 38 624 3,254 43 81 345 10 371 933 32 48 183 125 4,187 4 Sivasagar SDC 104 1,135 3,586 154 164 366 81 1,176 2,109 146 98 132 37 5,695 5 Vadodara IOGPT, 40 0 0 0 0 0 0 684 5,392 91 50 345 49 5,392 6 Panvel IPSHEM, 212 1,544 4,529 195 240 481 22 3,378 8,318 490 223 191 26 12,847 7 Goa SMP, 160 450 1,758 78 70 202 20 782 5,215 143 99 159 21 6,973 8 Vadodara IDT, Dehra 164 420 1,581 41 59 167 2 1,792 9,107 288 130 439 40 10,687 9 Dun Total 1,066 5,319 17,898 736 683 2,014 304 17,947 167,368 2,660 1,183 2,689 1,164 185,266 Table 43: Training man-days at ONGC Training in overseas between April 2017 to March 2018 for ONGC and ONGC Videsh No. of Name of No. of Executive Sl. Programmes SC ST OBC Female Institute organized Executives Man-days 1 ONGC 34 381 6,131 61 35 52 18 Academy Percentage 16% 9.18% 13.64% 4.72% Table 44: International trainings – ONGC and ONGC Videsh During the year, ONGC Group also conducted various business games to build the business acumen of its executives in a competitive scenario under simulated business constraints. As business games involve constant interaction with group members and solving problems using suitable strategies, it improves the leadership and management skills of employees. On the same lines, Fun Team Games (FTG) were organized for employees to inculcate Multi-disciplinary Team concept and spirit of belongingness to the organization. Around 476 employees participated in the event which was very well received and appreciated by them. Live the Molecule ONGC Group believes that the quality of benefits for our to the benefits for full-time employees, there are collective employees is a key factor in improving employee retention bargaining agreements in place under which 32% of ONGC and enhancing their productivity. With this perspective, ONGC and ONGC Videsh employees are covered. The agreements Group extends various welfare benefits to its employees cover matters related to pay, allowances, perks, social security and their families in the form of comprehensive medical and employee welfare. The details of welfare benefits for full care, education, housing and social security. In addition time employees of ONGC Group are provided below: ONGC and ONGC Videsh OTPC Type of benefits offered to full time employees Group Term Life Insurance Group Term Life Insurance Employee Deposit Linked Insurance Annual Health Check-Up Personal Accident Policy Personal Accident Policy The Post Retirement Benefit Scheme (PRBS) Trust Group Mediclaim Policy Medical Benefit Scheme for the Regular Employee Medical Reimbursements The Composite Social Security Scheme (CSSS) Disability Leave Disability Leave Paternity Leave Paternity Leave Children Education Allowance Child care leave Leave Travel Allowance Child adoption Leave Maternity Leave Maternity Leave Shift Allowance Superannuation Fund Gratuity Gratuity Fund Trust Provident Fund Provident Fund National Pension Scheme Employee Pension Scheme Reimbursement of Newspaper and Magazine Expense Sahyog Trust (ex-gratia financial grant for sustenance, medical assistance, treatment, rehabilitation, education, marriage of female dependent, alleviation of any hardship or distress) Asha Kiran Scheme (for emergency needs of the ex-employees retired prior to January 01, 2007) Performance linked incentive Employee loans and education loans Table 45: Employee benefits ONGC, ONGC Videsh and OTPC ONGC Group has been persistent in promoting gender Over 2,000 employees across ONGC underwent online diversity in its workforce and promoting women gender sensitization module. ONGC actively supported and empowerment within the organization. As of March 2018, nominated its women employees for programmes organized 6.7% of ONGC’s workforce comprised of women employees, by reputed agencies. with nearly 2,208 permanent women employees. We are In line with the requirements of the sexual Harassment of continuously putting efforts in improving the gender Women at the Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition & Redressal) balance of our workforce by putting in place womenAct, 2013, ONGC Group has an Anti-Sexual Harassment centric HR policies and promoting an inclusive work Policy. In ONGC and ONGC Videsh, during FY’18, the Internal culture. With this objective, various programmes on women Complaint Committee (ICC) has received four complaints on empowerment and development, including programmes sexual harassment. Reports of ICC have been submitted in all on gender sensitization, were organized during the year. the cases. There were no cases filed on Sexual Harassment of 71 Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) our employees are: Act, 2013 in OMPL, MRPL, OTPC and OPaL. • Paid maternity leave and extended maternity leave • Paternity Leave At ONGC Group, we strongly believe that a good work• Child care leave life balance for employees can improve staff motivation, • Sabbatical for Higher Education increase staff retention rates, reduce absence, attract new • Flexi-hours talent, and reduce employee stress. Some of the benefits • Adoption leave provided to employees to support the work-life balance of • Provision of crèche facility at all work centres ONGC Number of employees that took parental leave in FY’18 Number of employees who returned to work after parental leave Total Total 205 195 MRPL Number of employees that took parental leave in FY’18 Number of employees who returned to work after parental leave Male Female Male Female 128 11 128 5 OMPL Number of employees that took parental leave in FY’18 Number of employees who returned to work after parental leave Male Female Male Female 19 3 0 0 OTPC Number of employees that took parental leave in FY’18 Number of employees who returned to work after parental leave Male Female Male Female 5 0 5 0 Table 46: Parental leave – ONGC, MRPL, OMPL, OTPC A structured and a robust employee grievance redressal for settlement of grievances in case the location Channels are mechanism is in place for employees and the CDA (Conduct, not effective in resolving the grievance. Further, provision for Discipline and Appeal) rules have been outlined along with representation through Chief Liaison Officers of SC/ST/OBC the procedures to support employees to communicate in the Appeals Committee has also been in-built to protect their grievances to the management. ONGC’s Grievance the interest of reserved category employees. ONGC has Management System for employees provides a three-tier also implemented an effective online response mechanism channel for grievance redressal with an Independent Appeals (https://grievance.ongc.co.in) since 2015 to enable all Committee at Corporate Level, which is chaired by an external stakeholders including employees, to register and get online professional to ensure transparency and justice. The Appeals redressal to their grievances related to any operational wing. Committee situated at Corporate Office can also be accessed For ONGC Group, our people are our greatest assets. We Live the Molecule treat the information about human capital with similar rigor with employees and contractors. Employees are encouraged and accountability as is afforded to our financial capital. to report any instances of violations of the human rights. We We are striving to understand employee capacity as well as ensure compliance with all applicable regulations related to the potential and quality of our leadership for continuous human rights such as Payment of Wages Act, 1936; Minimum improvement of our organizational culture. Wages Act, 1948; Equal Remuneration Act, 1976; Industrial Dispute Act, 1947; ESI Act, 1948; Employees Provident fund Human rights and Miscellaneous Act, 1952; Contract Labour (Regulation ONGC Group has a strong commitment towards ensuring & Abolition) Act, 1970; Child Labour (Prohibition and high standards in anti-corruption, labour rights, and human Regulation) Act, 1986. As a responsible principal employer, rights, in alignment with international best practices. We take ONGC Group ensures that contractual labour is treated fairly consistent measures to undertake periodic review of our and immediate corrective actions are taken in response human rights practices to update them in a timely manner. to any complaints or disputes. Various in-house policies of Across ONGC Group, we maintain our systems and processes ONGC Group such as service rules, leave rules, gratuity rules, in a manner that minimizes human rights violations in CPF rules, and other employee welfare measures like house our operations as well as our supply chain. We ensure that building advance, conveyance advance, medical facilities, regular due diligence is undertaken to prevent exposure to and education loans also confirm to Human Right values. risk arising out of human rights violations. ONGC Group is also fully committed to the principles of ONGC Group employees represent people from diverse United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) on human rights, and nationalities, age groups, cultures and all levels of physical ensures adherence to these principles, in all its operations. ability. We follow a multi-pronged approach to promote diversity and inclusion within the group. At ONGC Group, we The key principles on which human rights principles of ONGC believe in acting ethically and with transparency in all dealings Group are based on include: Child Labour Forced and Bonded Labour Non-Discrimination Operational Responsibility ONGC Group prohibits child labour ONGC Group respects the dignity ONGC Group prohibits any form At ONGC group, implementation in its business activities. In order of labour and denounces all forms of discrimination or harassment and monitoring of aforesaid Human to ensure this, every prospective of forced and compulsory labour. on the basis of age, caste, sex, Rights policies and Code of Conduct employee is required to submit a The Group therefore, ensures religion or any other ground. lies on the Human Resource (HR) proof of age including contractual that its terms of employment are Equal remuneration is provided Head at each facility reporting to employees. In addition there are transparent and voluntary. The to the male and female members the Corporate HR Head. HR Head regular internal and external audits. Company encourages its suppliers of the workforce for the similar set oversees the implementation of The Company also encourages and service providers to adhere to of work. During FY’18 no case of the human rights policies and its suppliers to work towards a no a no forced and compulsory labour discrimination was reported to the takes responsibility of resolving child-labour policy. There were Code. No incident of forced or Ombudsman’s Office. any violations. ONGC has Whistle no cases of child labour reported compulsory labour at the suppliers Blower Policy and a dedicated within the Organization or came end came to group’s notice during Ombudsman office for addressing to Company’s notice involving its this reporting period. employee grievances in neutral suppliers during FY’18. and unbiased manner. Human rights principles ONGC Group 73 Safety and Security Safety and security has consistently been among requirements related to occupational health and safety is the core values of ONGC Group. Maintaining ensured across operations. plants and equipment to be safe, reliable, secure In its endeavour to achive mission “Zero Fatality”, ONGC had and efficient is not only essential for mitigation of adopted “Ten Safety Rules”, as below, which serve as the operational hazards, but also for the creation of cornerstone of safety across the organization. a productive and hospitable workplace. Oil and gas operations, being susceptible to catastrophic hazards owing to the slightest neglect, must 1. Keep Your Workplace & Environment Clean 2. Do Not Use Mobile Phones in Operational Areas develop, implement and execute coordinated 3. Safe Handling of Loads plans together with managerial control to ensure 4. Safe Working at Height plant integrity, equipment reliability, security 5. No Smoking, Use of Illegal Drugs, Consumption of of installations and safety of all associated Alcohol stakeholders. At ONGC Group, all aspects of 6. Obtain Authorisation Prior To Bypassing ‘Safety Critical operations including occupational safety and Equipment’ security have been comprehensively designed, 7. Ensure Safe System of Work constructed, tested, operated, inspected and 8. Work with a Valid Permit when Required maintained in a sustainable and systematic manner, 9. Protect Yourself by using PPE thus ensuring safety of our workforce, plants and 10. Drive Safely equipment. Occupational Safety Various key executives, line managers, and HSE managers Safety is the fulcrum of all operational activities at ONGC are entrusted with the responsibility of ensuring the Group. There is a strong commitment from top management implementation of these rules across installations, rigs, and towards safety and use of effective risk management tools field operations. To ensure the acquaintance of all employees and techniques. We ensure that a safe and healthy work and contractual workers with these rules, they have been environment is provided to our workforce. All the functional condensed into a handy and user-friendly manual which is heads, supervisors, workmen and contractual employees available in several regional languages such as Assamese, are empowered to exercise safe practices in everyday work Bengali, Gujarati, Tamil and Telugu, in addition to English and also in operational planning and development activities. and Hindi. ONGC Group has undertaken proactive measures ONGC Group has identified key areas to further strengthen towards ensuring holistic implementation of these rules its safety and security domain, which include occupational across operations, by working progressively with concerned health & safety management system and environmental stakeholders. Over 29,000 persons have been trained till date protection & conservation. on these safety rules. At ONGC Group, leaders establish the vision, communicate Globally recognized HSE Management System is implemented the key principles of safety, provide the requisite tools and across all work centres. This system is designed to assist resources, engage the workforce, monitor progress, adapt employees in understanding the hazards in oil and gas field to changes and recognize accomplishments related to operations, and to comply with the best safety, health, and occupational safety. All employees are inculcated with a environmental practices. All ONGC work centres are ISO 9001, sense of personal responsibility in preventing injury to ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 complied. ONGC Videsh and themselves, their fellow workers and the public in general. MRPL are also certified for ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS Strict compliance with all statutory, and other applicable 18001 at company level. Corporate guidelines on online Live the Molecule incident reporting, investigation and compliance monitoring technical directorate under the Ministry of Petroleum of various rules and regulations have been developed and Natural Gas which conducts External Safety Audits and implemented for maintaining uniformity throughout on regular basis, averaging around 50 ONGC facilities the organization in line with international practices. We annually. During FY’18, External Safety Audit / Surprise periodically measure our safety performance through regular Safety Audit at 34 on-shore installations, 13 off-shore monitoring and reporting in line with international standards installations and 2 Gas Processing plants were carried out. and practices. Additionally, pre-commissioning Safety Audit of Navagam To check the conformity and alignment of activities to Koyali pipeline and two units of Hazira Gas processing prevalent regulations, guidelines, standards and rules, ONGC plant were carried out during FY’18. As on 31st March 2018, has instated an all-inclusive audit routine comprising of status of compliance of OISD recommendations is 92%. internal as well as external audits. Internal Safety Audits (ISA) • Directorate General of Mines Safety (DGMS): DGMS is are conducted at regular intervals based on the risk matrix a regulatory agency under the Ministry of Labour and of the functional units to comply with the respective QHSE Employment, Government of India, in matters pertaining Management System. In FY’18, a total of 250 ISAs have been to occupational safety, health and welfare of persons conducted. Status of compliance of ISA recommendations employed in mines (Coal, Metalliferous and oil-mines). It is 92% as on 31st March 2018. External Safety Audits (ESAs) carries out periodic inspections of ONGC onshore facilities. conducted at ONGC are of the following types: As on 31st March 2018, status of compliance of DGMS • Oil Industry Safety Directorate (OISD) audits: OISD is a recommendations is 93%. SAFETY RULES Ten Safety Rules of ONGC 75 The table below indicates the safety performance of the organization: ONGC ONGC Videsh MRPL OMPL OPaL OTPC Parameter FY’16 FY’17 FY’18 FY’16 FY’17 FY’18 FY’16 FY’17 FY’18 FY’17 FY’18 FY’17 FY’18 FY’17 FY’18 Fatality 9 6 8 2 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 LTIF17 0.44 0.402 0.47 0.38 0.53 0.13 0 0 0.30 0 0 0 0 0 0 TRIR 18 0.80 0.92 0.82 1.14 1.49 0.52 0 0.000015 2.55 0.103 0.233 0 0 0 0 Recordable 483 755 631 44 59 19 0 2 3 4 5 3 2 0 0 incidents Lost -days 818 747 1,761.9 214 220 55 0 394 119 0 0 0 0 0 0 Near-miss 6,572 7,153 8,822 11,577 15,732 14,260 19 11 72 714 116 221 109 161 204 323 Table 47: Incidents data ONGC Group Process Safety Safety Training At ONGC Group, Process Safety Management (PSM) is a critical To enhance the competency of employees and contractors component of the overall QHSE Management System, which engaged with ONGC Group various capacity building primarily targets prevention and control of events that have programs have been established. ONGC has invested heavily the potential to release hazardous materials and energy which into ensuring safety of all employees using a combination result in toxic exposure, fire, explosion, and could ultimately of proactive and reactive measures. The primary objective lead to serious incidents including fatalities, injuries, property of these initiatives is to enable employees to effectively damage, lost production and environmental damage. identify hazardous situations, ensure proper mitigation and To avoid the occurrence of such incidents, a comprehensive control measures, prevent incidents, injuries and illnesses, process and technique for hazard management has been and understand their responsibilities if confronted with a instated at ONGC Group. This process and technique is potentially dangerous situation at work. based on a systematic approach for identifying, analyzing, At ONGC, training needs assessment is carried out centrally evaluating, and controlling hazards of pertinent processes, by the ONGC Academy, Dehradun and Institute of Petroleum carried out by a combination of internal teams and external Safety, Health and Environment Management (IPSHEM), Goa experts with proficiency in engineering and process which serve as the organization’s specialized training arms. operations. These management techniques are updated ONGC also has its own Regional Training Institutes (RTIs) and revalidated periodically according to the best industry for delivery of training programmes to its employees. Upon practices, as applicable. identification of training needs, both ONGC Academy and IPSHEM publish yearly calendar. These institutes cater to the Contractor Safety training requirements of the overall ONGC Group. ONGC Group has established a comprehensive and systematic contractor safety management program to Instructor-led classroom safety training sessions (practical ensure well-being and occupational safety of all partners, and vocational) are conducted by industrial experts from contractors, and employees. It is targeted towards reducing external agencies as well as in-house faculty comprising of the damage to facilities and equipment, and reducing the functional heads, department heads, and line managers, number of occupational safety related incidents in order to among others. Additionally, other initiatives targeted towards curtail project overruns and regulatory implications. capacity building and awareness of employees have been 17 Lost time injury frequency (LTIF): The number of lost time injuries (fatalities + lost work day cases) per million hours worked. 18 Total recordable injury rate (TRIR): The number of recordable injuries (fatalities + lost work day cases + restricted work day cases + medical treatment cases) per million hours worked. 19 ONGC Videsh includes reporting of unsafe acts and unsafe conditions, along with near miss incidents. Live the Molecule ONGC CONTRACTOR SAFETY MANAGEMENT PRGRAM SAFETY MANAGEMENT PLAN CONTRACTOR SELECTION PROCESS Contractor develops a written plan that identifies specific objectives and Prior to selection and on-boarding , the contractors exhibits that their documents necessary procedures with clearly defined accountabilities, employees are qualified to perform the work to be done, based on a performances measurements and evaluation criteria, alongside comprehensive review and understanding of the scope of work, and provisions for meetings regulatory requirements. associated HSE legal requirements. INBUILT HSE CLAUSES IN BID PACKAGE PRE-JOB VERIFICATION All bid packages prepared by ONGC include requisite HSE related Contractors thoroughly acquaints their employees with the location, clauses based on legal regulation, applicable and accepted industry facility, personnel, management program, process hazards, facility HSE practices, requirements of management systems and international requirement and other information before commencement of work. standards, etc. SAFETY ORIENTATION OF THE CONTRACTUAL WORKFORCE VERIFICATION OF PRE-REQUISITE MANDATORY TRAINING FOR Contractors are mandated to identify and present to their employees CONTRACTORS various important safety rules, applicable to working in ONGC facilities. ONGC validates the completion of all mandatory trainings for This information may be communicated through written material, contractor, fitness/medical test certificates by competent verbal instructions, presentations, etc. agencies, etc. MONITORING WHILE WORK IN PROGRESS WORK EVALUATION ONGC continuously supervises and monitors contractors’ activities At the completion of the contracted work, ONGC evaluates the overall during execution of projects. Periodic reviews are jointly conducted performance of the contractors, and determines the safety results to with the contractors’ supervisors. Random work-site inspections and qualify the contractors as eligible for bidding in future works. mock drills are conducted by ONGC. initiated by ONGC, which include awareness and wellness organic chemicals that have a high vapor pressure at programmes, safety committee meetings, toolbox talks, and ordinary room temperature, and many VOCs are toxic for a variety of other engagement activities involving various environment and health. Lectures were taken by experts stakeholders critical to operations. in this domain from CPCB, NEERI and IIT-M. Under Mines Vocational Training (MVT) Rules, 1966, trainings • To create awareness among the updated OMR-2017, are provided to full time employees as well as contractual Corporate HSE in association with Mehsana Asset workers involved in working in mines on the surface or in organized a two day workshop on “Oil Mines Regulations opencast, with a view to make them aware of the dangers 2017” named as “Viniyaman Sangam” from 15th to 16th of working in mines so that they can work safely. A total of September 2017. The first day session was chaired by 2,034 personnel (523 ONGC employees and 1,511 Contract Director General-DGMS, Mr. P.K. Sarkar, and the second persons) have been imparted trainings during FY’18. day session was chaired by the then Director (Onshore) Details of key seminars and trainings related to occupational Sh. Ved Prakash Mahawar. As the new OMR-2017 is OISD safety conducted during the reporting period are as under: standard based, ED OISD also attended the program which was also attended by more than 110 participants • As per the mandate given by Ministry of Environment, including officials from DGMS, OISD, CHSE and Key Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC) for creating executives and officers from Mehsana, Ahmedabad, awareness towards Environmental, Safety and Health Ankleshwar, Cambay and Jodhpur Assets. aspects of Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) & Hydrocarbons, Corporate HSE and HSE Cauvery Basin • A two day workshop on “Transformation of the Safety in technical collaboration with Central Pollution Control Culture in ONGC through Behavior Based Safety (BBS) Board (CPCB) organized a two day training program Process” was organized by Corporate HSE on 5th and 6th on “Volatile Organic Compounds & Hydrocarbons: September 2017 at Deendayal Urja Bhawan, inaugurated Monitoring and Management” at Chennai from 17th to by Director (Exploration)-I/c HSE. The workshop was 18th August 2017 to sensitize the Scientists, Technocrats, conceptualized by Corporate HSE to take a step further Environmentalists, Consultants and other concerned towards strengthening and improving safety culture communities. This was second such program conducted in ONGC in the coming years and was attended by on VOCs. Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) are HSE personnel from various work centers. Leading 77 BBS companies like DuPont, ERM, Ernst & Young, Case Study: E&P Park Cholamandalam, Dekra Insight etc. gave detailed For providing first-hand knowledge and training to students presentations on implementation of BBS in ONGC. from schools and colleges about the activities under • ONGC participated in Global HSE 2017 International exploration and production, an Exploration & Production Conference & Exhibition for Health, Safety & (E&P) Park was constructed at Ankleshwar ONGC Colony. Environment at Hyderabad from 21st to 22nd September Geological Model, Oil Samples, Core Samples, Artificial Lift 2017. Conference was held in association with the Model, a workover rig, sucker rod pump, mud pump, CMT Ministry of Labour and Employment, Government of module, group separator, test separator, gas flaring facility, India, National Safety Council, PETROTECH Society, heater treater, x-mas tree, knock out facility & flexible water OISD and major corporate organizations, trade bodies tank were shown to provide insights in E&P operations and & government entities. Director (Onshore), ONGC gave equipment. ONGC plans to use the facility to give training to keynote address to the gathering of organizational local ITI students, on-the-job and MVT trainings. leaders, senior managers and HSE practitioners. ONGC representatives also held panel discussions and gave Case Study: Oil Spill Management – technical presentations at the conference. Response and Combat • A workshop on Oil Mines Regulations-2017 was organized at Rajahmundry on 26th & 27th February 2018 ONGC’s E&P operations, especially in offshore areas, where nearly 240 officers and staff from all southern face high risks of Oil Spill incidents which can lead work centres attended to understand the nuances of to disastrous consequences to environment and the recently promulgated Regulations. This was second economy. To handle such incidents, depending upon such workshop, the first one was held at Mehsana in the severity, ONGC has three tier preparations: September 2017. TIER – I (up to 700MT) • Corporate HSE organized a conference on new ISO TIER – ll (up to 10,000MT) facilities are in place standard 2015 on 22nd December 2017 at Delhi office for to handle of oil spillage using its oil spill response preparation of QHSE documents and implementation. equipment kept on different MultiSupport Vessels Lectures were given by internal faculty to take up the For larger spills (TIER-III) arrangements with M/s Oil issues regarding changes in standards. Spill Response Limited, UK are in place. The average safety training hours for ONGC and its group Further, ONGC is also involved in following exercises companies are indicated in the table below: regarding oil spill management: Average training hours on safety – Full time employees a) Mock Drills and Exercises Parameter FY’16 FY’17 FY’18 Exercise “Prasthan” was conducted by Regional ONGC and ONGC Videsh 12,029 12,107 12,847 Contingency Committee (RCC, West) on 21st to 22nd (man-days) November 2017 by activating Regional Contingency Plan (RCP), Western Offshore. The purpose of Regional MRPL 11,144 11,568 Contingency Plan (W) is to outline procedures for OPaL 1,872 3,960 coordinated joint action, should a major emergency OTPC 275 389 984 occurs during peacetime, involving installations of Table 48: Average training hours spent on safety trainings ONGC Group the Exploration & Production (E&P) member operators off the Western Coast of India within the Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ). RCC comprises of 12 agencies Live the Molecule viz. Navy, ICG, Air Force, ONGC, JV, Cairn, DG Shipping, Andhra Pradesh Pollution Control Board participated MbPT, JNPT, Govt of Maharashtra, Gujarat, and SIB. in the exercise. b) Oil Spill Exercise by Indian Coast Guard c) Further, mock drills are being regularly conducted An Oil spill Response exercise was conducted by at Offshore Process Complexes, Offshore Drilling Rigs, Indian Coast Guard on 13th & 14th March 2018 off FPSO (Floating Production Storage and Offloading) Kakinada Coast in Eastern Offshore. ONGC, Reliance and Multi Support vessels to check the level of India Ltd., Vedanta Cairn India Ltd., Kakinada Sea Ports preparedness, identify grey areas and take corrective Limited, District Disaster Management Authority and actions. Fire Fighting training at ONGC’s premier safety institute IPSHEM, Goa ONGC regularly conducts mock drills at various work-centres periodically to be prepared for any eventuality 79 Security Ensuring security for the workforce is the first and foremost modern security gadgets like CCTVs, Flap barriers etc. are also concern for ONGC Group. ONGC is committed to secure its in various stages of installation. men, material, data and operations. A dedicated Security Given the global nature of operations at ONGC Videsh, it is Policy at the corporate level ensures full-proof physical imperative to ensure the adoption of comprehensive security security for installations and workers across all work centres. practices to safeguard its employees at all times. ONGC Videsh This policy assesses present threats and vulnerabilities, and holds contract with International SOS (ISOS), who along with ensures infallible security for installations and workers across consortium partner Control Risk provides ‘Comprehensive all work centres. This policy also delineates the organization’s membership for medical and security emergencies for ONGC security philosophies, strategies, goals, programs, and Videsh expats and travelers’ along with travel tracker. ISOS processes. It is used to guide the organization’s development sends travel advisory to each individual based on ticket and direction in these areas in a manner that is consistent booking. Apart from this the employees can get latest with the company’s overall business plan. Industrial Security updates through ISOS app on mobiles or contacting their Inspection Team of Intelligence Bureau (Ministry of Home call centres worldwide. In case of any security or medical Affairs, Govt. of India) is mandated to carry out periodic emergency, ISOS is obliged to provide services at cost to security inspection of our installations and internal security company. audits are frequently conducted by the senior officers of ONGC Group to identify gaps and areas of improvements. Other key initiatives taken by ONGC for improvement of operational security are as below: The Onshore Assets of ONGC are protected by various Government Security Forces like Assam Armed Police Bn. • Besides periodic reviews on security matters at Corporate (Assam), CISF (Assam, Gujarat, Mumbai, Andhra Pradesh, level and implementation of OSCC’s decision, Annual and Dehradun), SRPF (Gujarat), APSPF (Andhra Pradesh), Security Conference followed by a Review Meeting of TSR (Tripura) etc., who work under the overall supervision of Security executives is conducted every six months to ONGC departmental Security. Additionally, at some locations, deliberate upon various issues for improving security contractual security guards/ex-servicemen are deployed provisions and to curb theft/pilferage of crude oil/other for the security of ONGC Work Centres. The choice of the material in the affected areas and arrests of culprits force for guarding a particular ONGC Work Centre depends thereof, monitoring trials in the Courts, incidents of on the sensitivity and threat perception, which is carried sabotage, if any, etc. out and reviewed periodically. The overall responsibility of • Sensitizations of the Coastal population, especially securing the Offshore Installations of ONGC lies with Indian fishermen, is being conducted with the help of Security Navy/Indian Coast Guard and is coordinated by Flag Officer agencies on regular basis by ONGC on Coastal and Offshore Defence Advisory Group (FODAG), situated at Offshore Security, including theft from unmanned Mumbai. Seamless Surveillance of Offshore Development platforms, as it can result in serious collateral damages, Areas is done through Vessel and Air Traffic Management etc. Short Sensitization film for fishermen community System (VATMS), installed at both the East Coast (Kakinada) has been translated (sub-titles) in six languages and West Coast (Mumbai). Besides, an area extending up to viz., Marathi, Gujarati, Tamil, Telugu, English & Hindi 500 meters around ONGC offshore structures/platforms is for making it useful on Pan-India basis in all ONGC identified as notified/designated area and any unauthorized operational area. It is screened during civic action/ access to offshore structures/platforms in this zone is liable community programme. for prosecution. On board security is the responsibility of ONGC and ONGC has deployed Marine Security Supervisors • The Oil Sector Infrastructure Protection Plan (OSIPP) (MSS), who are ex-naval sailors for the same. Furthermore, approved by MoP&NG is already under implementation. Live the Molecule • In view of the continuous threats to Offshore/Oilfield of Right of use in Land) Amendment Act, 2011 and PNGRB Development Areas (ODAs) and gaps identified by the Act 2006, regarding theft, pilferage, tampering and other Security & Intelligence Agencies, the Comprehensive damages caused to oil and gas pipelines. Security Solution (CSS) for the Offshore Assets has been • Enterprise Wide Access Control System (EACS), through prepared after getting inputs and presentation from M/s. M/s. BEL, is under implementation. This would help in BEL, ECIL and other reputed private security companies further strengthening the Access Control and monitoring on the matter. Board approval has been accorded to the the incidents of theft & pilferage as well as sabotage. proposal and necessary action is being taken as per the • Benchmarking of 28 security gadgets for all Work decision of the Board. Centres/Installations of ONGC and their procurement • With the help of Police and local administration, special has been approved as a part of the implementation of sensitization programmes were organized for villagers the Oil Sector Infrastructure Protection Plan. residing around the oil fields in Gujarat, Assam and Karaikal. • Oil tankers are equipped with Global Positioning System These programmes also included scrap-dealers and (GPS) at Ahmedabad, Ankleshwar, Mehsana Asset & Hazira brick kiln workers for their sensitization against possible Plant. Similarly, Rajahmundry and Assam Asset are also dangers from theft and pilferages of crude/metal parts initiating case to install GPS on oil tankers. Ahmedabad from ONGC oil wells/establishments. In order to educate and Mehsana Assets have already introduced GPS system the local population about serious environmental, safety to monitor the movement of Line walkers on our Trunk and fire hazards involved in crude oil theft and pilferage, Pipelines. presentations were also organized in the villages. The villagers are also being sensitized to various stringent • Security and Fire Mock Drills are being conducted provisions of Petroleum & Mineral Pipelines (Acquisition regularly in the various Work Centres. At ONGC, security and safety in all areas of operations is top priority; Above picture taken during offshore safety and security drill conducted in coordination with Indian Coast Guard at Mumbai offshore 81 Information Security Digital proliferation has empowered us to access and India. The data centres of ONGC are ISO 27001:2013 certified, interact with data and information in innumerable ways and which are audited by both internal and external auditors. through various systems, applications and devices. Increase ONGC has also dedicated one day as Information Security in the volume of organizational data means they are further Awareness day during its annual Security Awareness Week exposed to a slew of other vulnerabilities and compliance to create awareness on cyber security issues. The CISO team violations. ONGC understands the importance of Cyber is continuously involved in spreading awareness amongst Security as a domain and has been a pioneer amongst the ONGC employees by organizing sessions on information PSUs to implement commensurate security measures for security. Besides, to inculcate awareness amongst Graduate mitigating the risks emanating from the Cyber World. EC Trainees of ONGC, lectures are organised for them during approved Information Security Policy has been in place since induction training at ONGC Academy. Additionally, 2009 and is being reviewed and updated on a regular basis publishing monthly e-newsletter and conduct of online quiz as per the need. ONGC has also implemented Information competitions on information and cyber security etc., using Security Management System (ISMS) which is in line with intranet platform are done for awareness generation of the the National Information Security Policy of Government of stakeholders concerned. Awards and Recognition 1 Shri Ram Nath Kovind, Hon’ble President of India, conferred National Safety Awards (Mines) for 2013 and 2014 of Directorate General of Mines Safety in August 2017 in following categories: a) Ahmedabad Oil Mine for Longest Accident Free Period for the year 2013 (Oil Mines producing less than 7 Million cubic meter of oil or oil equivalent gas). ONGC receiving National Safety Awards (Mines) from Shri Ram Nath Kovind, Hon’ble President of India Live the Molecule b) Mehsana Production Oil Mine for Lowest Injury Frequency 2015-16 & 2016-17 on 13th January 2018 at Bhubaneshwar Rate for the year 2013 (per lakh man-shift oil mines). in following categories: c) Mehsana Oil Mine for Longest Accident Free Period for the a) Best Offshore Platform: BPB, B&S Asset, Mumbai (2015-16) year 2013 (Oil Mines producing less than 7 Million cubic b) Individual Award: Shri Labeeb Baasit, E.E. (Mech), Sagar meter of oil or oil equivalent gas). Ratna (2015-16) d) Krishna Godavari Drilling Mine for Lowest Injury Frequency c) Best Onshore Asset: Rajahmundry Asset (2016-17) Rate for the year 2014 (per lakh man-shift oil mines). d) Best Offshore Asset: Mumbai High North with Drilling Rig 2 Hon’ble Minister of Petroleum & Natural Gas presented Valient Driller (2016-17) ONGC with prestigious OISD Safety Awards for the year ONGC receiving OISD Safety Award 3 Corporate HSE has been selected as Best Performing OPaL’s Strategic Business Unit in Corporate Services category OPaL’s commitment towards excellence in the area of by Performance Management and Benchmarking Group occupational health and safety performance received (PMBG) for FY’17. The then CMD ONGC conferred the industry-wide recognition when the organization was award on 15th August 2017 at Dehradun. conferred with the Green Tech Safety Award in Platinum Category (the highest award in its class) for noteworthy safety performance and commissioning of the Mega Petrochemical Complex in FY’18 without significant setbacks or incidents. This recognition was extended to OPaL at the 17th edition of the awards during November 2018 at Guwahati in the presence of several industry delegates as well as government officials. This award corroborates OPaL’s highest level of commitment towards promoting best in class safety at various work Best Performing Strategic Business Unit award by PMBG centres. 83 Supply Chain ONGC Group’s supply chain consists of multiple exploration and production operations (Assets and tiers of suppliers, contractors, JVs/partners and Basins), processing plants and institutes. For the governments due to the diverse geographic reporting year, ONGC engaged with 11,032 new spread and coverage of its operations. The Group’s suppliers and the amount of business volume with reporting boundary comprises of ONGC’s domestic suppliers was over INR 7,454.83 Million. The details of new suppliers created by ONGC Group of companies during the reporting year are provided below: New Suppliers S.No Description Indian Overseas Total ONGC 1 No. of new suppliers created during FY’18 (Goods & Services) 10,880.00 152.00 11,032.00 2 Total value of orders placed on the above suppliers during FY’18 (in INR Million) 5,552.30 1,902.53 7,454.83 ONGC Videsh 1 No. of new suppliers created during FY’18 (Goods & Services) 210.00 15.00 225.00 2 Total value of orders placed on the above suppliers during FY’18 (in INR Million) 111.49 16.92 128.41 MRPL 1 No. of new suppliers created during FY’18 (Goods & Services) 1,275.00 87.00 1,362.00 2 Total value of orders placed on the above suppliers during FY’18 (in INR Million) 1,717.03 418.73 2,135.76 OMPL 1 No. of new suppliers created during FY’18 (Goods & Services) 584.00 11.00 595.00 2 Total value of orders placed on the above suppliers during FY’18 (in INR Million) 412.80 105.47 518.27 OPaL 1 No. of new suppliers created during FY’18 (Goods & Services) 409.00 48.00 457.00 2 Total value of orders placed on the above suppliers during FY’18 (in INR Million) 22,397.10 1,863.50 23,760.60 OTPC 1 No. of new suppliers created during FY’18 (Goods & Services) 14.00 0.00 14.00 2 Total value of orders placed on the above suppliers during FY’18 (in INR Million) 5.20 5.20 Table 49: New suppliers added by ONGC Group in the financial year Live the Molecule ONGC Group is highly committed to ensuring all vendors excellence in quality of products and processes. ONGC operate in a healthy and safe working environment and Group complies with ISO 9001:2015, thus, demonstrating maintain a high quality of services. A systematic approach its ability to consistently provide products and services is deployed to ensure compliance with applicable labour that meet customer requirements and applicable statutory practice regulations including child labour and human rights requirements, and to enhance customer satisfaction through aspects, across our supply chain. Compliance to applicable the effective application of the system. The three key products legal and HSE requirements are incorporated in all of our of ONGC are Crude Oil, Natural Gas & Liquefied Petroleum service contract agreements with suppliers and is ensured Gas. All the products of ONGC Group conform strictly to during execution. We continue to engage with all supplier the respective product-making-procedures, laws, statutes segment and focus on conducting training on Health and and standards governing their production. The exploration Safety, Compliance and Anti-Corruption, the protection and production (E&P) business activities are pursued and of Human Rights and Anti-Harassment. ONGC has also aligned in a way that E&P of resources is done in a sustainable introduced an E-Grievance handling mechanism for quick manner throughout their life cycle. For crude oil sale, batch redressal of grievances from all stakeholders including wise certificates are issued, which includes various quality suppliers. The vendors and suppliers of ONGC Group also parameters including the BS&W. Product labelling related have the facility of approaching Independent External to storage procedures and safety precautions is clearly Monitors to redress their grievance. indicated at ONGC installations holding the crude. All natural gas supplied by ONGC to various customers conforms to the Product Quality agreed contractual specifications. ONGC Group has consistently followed an integrative We also place tremendous importance on updating our management philosophy embedded in its systems and product quality with evolving global and national standards. processes, aimed at continuously improving the quality of MRPL has taken up the enhancement of the refinery’s products and processes to achieve customer satisfaction. capacity with low cost revamping. At OPaL, Quality Policy One of the most important missions of the Group is to strive and Objectives have been approved by President, OPaL for customer delight through quality products and services. and are displayed at prominent places in laboratory. Their The adoption of the integrated management philosophy Quality Labs have Service Level Agreements (SLA) for includes customer focus, leadership commitment, continual inspection and testing of Product Quality as per applicable improvement, employee empowerment and supplier testing protocols such as ASTM, BIS, APHA, UOP, Licensors support in the continuous and sustainable improvement of Methods and laboratory validated methods to meets products, processes and services. This commitment delivers customers’ expectations. OPaL has also designed and improved productivity, enhanced quality, increased customer implemented ‘Quality Manual’ in line with ISO 17025:2005, satisfaction, reduced costs and increased competitive ‘General Requirements for Testing and Calibration advantage. Laboratories’. The company is drafting an IMS Policy in line ONGC Group has appropriate policies and guidelines in place with the requirements of ISO 9001:2015, ISO 14001:2015 for determining and maintaining product quality across and ISO 45001:2018 which is in process for approval. OPaL all of our product categories. The guidelines are primarily has gone another step ahead to set goals and targets for focused on satisfying internal customers, external customers FY’19 for maintaining product quality & norms developed and the business associates through maintaining continual for all three Polymer Plants. 85 Customer satisfaction is of paramount significance at ONGC of Delegated Powers 2015. These agreements incorporate Group. We interact with our B2B customers on a regular suitable provisions with regard to the quality and quantity basis, with respect to product quality and pricing. This kind of the product being supplied by ONGC. The Company has of engagement with our partners enables us to identify and therefore laid down policies and guidelines for engaging address all concerns related to our products and services by with and providing value to their customers and consumers any of our customer/consumers immediately. The Company in a responsible manner. The specifications of product quality engages with customers and consumers in a manner that and measurement in COSA/GSA are in accordance with demonstrates best business practices and is a win-win international standards and guidelines of the Government proposition for all parties doing business with ONGC Group of India. The agreements also have an in-built mechanism in line with mutually agreed upon business principles and for stakeholders’ grievance redressal. ONGC Group has a deliverables. The Company’s main customers are Oil Refining structured and dedicated marketing department to oversee & Gas Marketing Companies to which the Company’s implementation of relevant policies in this regard. Further, produce (oil and gas) is allocated by the Government of India. the general guidelines on standard terms of business and The Company enters into a Crude Oil Sale Agreement (COSA) also contract terms and conditions of conducting business with the Oil Marketing Companies (OMCs) and Gas Sales with ONGC are available on the company’s website. Agreement (GSA) with GAIL to whom it sells the Crude Oil & Maintaining strong customer relations is a key priority Natural Gas. The COSA/GSA of ONGC Group have been arrived at the ONGC Group in line with the quality policy of the at in consultation with OMCs and Gas marketing companies respective Group companies. Any incidents or complaints on mutually agreed principles. Other sales or purchase concerning provision of our products and services are duly agreement are also agreed mutually, and are signed by the addressed and resolved with the customers at the work designated authorities after seeking approval as per Book center level. Live the Molecule Towards self-sustaining communities Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is a strong Vision: pillar of our value system in ONGC Group. We To support responsible and sustainable initiatives, consider it as a strong opportunity for social value while taking care of the concern for People, Planet and creation in alignment with the Triple Bottom Profit. Line Approach People, Planet & Profit. The approach is to create a positive impact on the society to develop stakeholder-inclusive models Mission: of development. In line with Companies’ Act 2013 Continually enhance the triple bottom line benchmarks and Companies (CSR Policy) Rules 2014, ONGC has of economic, environmental and social performance put in place a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) through committed involvement of the employees. To & Sustainable Development (SD) policy. The CSR develop social wealth for the communities we engage SOPs have been standardized across various work with. Promote efficient usage of scarce resources, centres through CSR Manual of the Company. encourage green energy initiatives and develop CSR activities are identified by the need of the community innovative solutions to fulfil the vision by stepping and CSR projects are implemented in project mode as per beyond the mandatory provisions. focus areas defined under Schedule VII of the Companies Act, 2013. CSR projects are preferably undertaken in operational areas. These projects are monitored continuously through CSR Journey of ONGC a systematic approach followed by the management, with ONGC has been a pioneer in implementing initiatives for appropriate controls and review mechanisms. community development way back since 1980 even before its inception as a Company, in the name of Socio Economic CSR Expenditure 6,000 of ONGC 5,000 5,260 5,034 in the last three years 4,000 4,210 (in INR Million) 3,000 2,000 1,000 0 FY’16 FY’17 FY’18 Table 50: CSR Expenditure of ONGC in the last three years 87 Development Program (SEDP). It has history of earmarking To promote sustainable development and inclusive growth in 0.75% PAT for CSR in 2003 with well documented Corporate a streamlined manner, ONGC’s CSR activities are guided by a Citizenship Policy which was revised in 2006 and allocation project-based approach. ONGC’s CSR initiatives have helped of CSR budget was increased to 2% of PAT. The company the organization in making a positive impact in lives of the was first time to issue separate CSR Guidelines in 2009 beneficiaries. The CSR projects of the company have resulted which prepared base for DPE Guidelines 2010. Today, after in creation of social infrastructure and capacity building of enactment of Companies Act, 2013; the Company has a the communities surrounding its operations. separate CSR&SD Policy and SOP Manual approved by CSR In FY’18, ONGC has spent an amount of INR 5,034 Million for its & SD Committee headed by an Independent Director. It is various CSR programs spanning from healthcare, sanitation, not just compliant with statutory provisions but also future education, skill development, environment sustainability, ready. The Company has today capacity to spend an average rural development as the major themes covered under budget of INR 5,000 Million on CSR activities with more than section VII of the Companies Act. 2,500 projects in a year. CSR Expenditure of Group Companies (in INR Million) FY’16 FY’17 FY’18 ONGC Videsh 89.33 (outside India) 40.02 (outside India) 41.11 (outside India) MRPL 41 14.5 103 OPaL 0.06 4.1 OTPC 3.6 3.7 11.7 Table 51: CSR Expenditure across ONGC Group of Companies Thematic areas of ONGC ONGC's CSR Expenditure Preservation of Promotion of Sports heritage INR 125.97 Million INR 112.04 Million Enviornment Women Sustainability Empowement INR 277.05 Million INR 122.7 Million Education and Skill Development Healthcare INR 1,250.76 Million INR 1,421.87 Million Drinking water and Sanitation Rural Development INR 1,314.85 Million INR 195.88 Million Enviornment Sustainability Education and Skill Development Rural Development Drinking water and Sanitation Healthcare Women Empowerment Promotion of Sports Preservation of heritage ONGC’s theme wise CSR Expenditure Live the Molecule The company, through its CSR initiatives, is committed to ensuring equitable and sustainable growth in its areas of bring a positive change in the community, and create positive operations. More than 2,400 projects have been taken up value for all its stakeholders. under CSR across different states in the FY’18 under the themes As a leading Indian corporate, ONGC is fully engaged in are mentioned below: CSR in ONGCTouching lives across India Jammu and Kashmir Delhi 0.95 20.30 State Wise CSR Expenditure (FY’18) Himachal Pradesh (All figures in Rs. Cr) 0.77 Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand 2.72 23.01 Sikkam Punjab • Chandigarh Bihar 0.02 0.15 Uttar Pradesh 7.39 Arunachal Pradesh 20.93 2.81 Haryana Assam 7.78 65.59 Nagaland Rajasthan 0.20 Meghalaya 4.29 0.52 Tripura Gujarat 7.24 81.17 Manipur 0.17 Mizoram Maharashtra 0.08 Chhattisgarh 119.31 0.56 Jharkhand Goa 8.61 0.68 Orissa West Bengal 23.86 4.71 Karnataka 19.04 Telangana 3.53 Kerala Andhra Pradesh 0.99 48.09 Pondicherry 1.00 Andaman and Nicobar Islands Tamil Nadu 0.06 25.91 ONGC CSR Outreach across India Linkage with Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Introduced as part of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable CSR initiatives of ONGC and its JVs are mapped against the Development, the SDGs are aimed at ending poverty, respective SDG in which they are contributing. protecting the planet and ensuring that all people enjoy peace ONGC has identified the following CSR focus areas, which are and prosperity. SDGs serve as a global reference framework aimed at resolving specific social and community issues, and for supporting ONGC in improving its Corporate Social enabling the beneficiaries of these programmes to secure a Responsibility (CSR) engagement in a way that contributes to better future. sustainable development. In the following section, the major 89 • Setting up of B.Ed. College in Arunachal Pradesh • Support to KV schools • Project Saraswati • Organic Farming Training & • Construction of IHHLs, School • Promotion of Sanskrit • Construction of IHHLs, School Research Centre at Telangana Toilets language Toilets • Contribution to Skill • Solar roof top systems in • Tapas PU College at • Information, Education & Development Institutes schools & public area Bangalore Communication (IEC) • Goatary Development in • Women Skilling & • Mid-Day Meal • School and Hostel Buildings activities Mayurbhanj Entrepreneurship Programs at various schools across India • Cleanliness drives at various Development through Khadi • Skill Training through CIPET Solar Charkha • ONGC Antyodaya • ONGC Super 30 locations • Pradhan Mantri Krishi Kendra • Goatary Development in Prakalp • Ekal Vidyalaya Abhiyan • Solar Water Pumps, RO Units at Gumla Mayurbhanj 2 4 6 8 11 CLEAN WATER DECENT WORK SUSTAINABLE ZERO QUALITY AND & ECONOMIC CITIES AND HUNGER EDUCATION SANITATION GROWTH COMMUNITIES 3 5 7 10 15 AFFORDABLE GOOD HEALTH GENDER AND REDUCED LIFE & WELL-BEING EQUALITY CLEAN ENERGY INEQUALITITES ON LAND • Support to National Cancer • Women Skilling & • Solar Street Lights in villages • Scholarship to SC/ST • Eastern Swamp Deer Hospital, Nagpur, Maharashtra Entrepreneurship • Solar roof top system in meritorious students for Conservation project • Varishthajan Swasthya Sewa Development through Khadi schools & public area pursuing higher professional • Support to Plant & Animal Abhiyan • Solar Charkha • Bio-CNG plant at Haridwar courses Welfare Society for • Support to Integrated • Water Hyacinth Craft • Smoke Free Villages in • Development of Model publishing books on flora & Muscular Dystrophy • Construction of new operational areas Village at Karbongpara, fauna Rehabilitation Centre ONGC-MRPL wing of Tripura • Project to reduce • ONGC Multispecialty Hospital Government Lady Goschen • Multi-purpose skill Human-Leopard conflict • Support to Indian Menopause Hospital development and community • Nature linked livelihood Society • Girls Hostels at various places center in Assam programs through Titli Trust • Menstrual Hygiene awareness 17 1 16 2 15 3 14 Climate & Energy 4 Redefining 13 Value 5 Cities Food & Land 12 6 11 7 10 9 8 SDG Mapping of ONGC's CSR activities Live the Molecule ONGC has identified the following CSR focus areas, which are 11 new MMUs. As a result, currently 31 MMUs are providing aimed at resolving specific social and community issues, and door step medical consultation, medicines, basic diagnostics enabling the beneficiaries of these programmes to secure a test, home care visits for bedridden elderly, Physiotherapy better future. Care, Palliative Care and Training and Health Education & Awareness to lakhs of senior citizen, women and children Health Care Initiatives residing in remote corners of our country. The total amount ONGC strives to improve the health conditions in the sanctioned towards implementing this project from 2010 to country by providing better health facilities in remote areas; 2019 is INR 364 Million. This project has been successful in establishing mobile medicare units for elderly people; providing more than 2.5 Million treatments. creating awareness about cancer and providing affordable The MMU Team comprises of a Medical Consultant, a Social medical treatment for patients suffering from cancer. Some Protection Officer, a Nurse, a Driver and a Physiotherapist. of the major initiatives in this field are: National Cancer Institute, Nagpur Key Highlights The National Cancer Institute at Nagpur, will be 455 bed quaternary care oncology centre. The centre will provide • INR 1,421 Million worth of projects implemented towards Health Care Initiative. Sickle Cell and Thalassemia Prevention • INR 3,130 Million MultiSpeciality Hospital project Control and Research Programme launched at Sivasagar, Assam. supported by ONGC Ankleshwar • 541,208 Nos. door step medical treatment provided through Mobile Medical Unit in FY’18. Sickle Cell Anaemia is a public health problem in • INR 1,000 Million sanctioned towards setting up of Gujarat, responsible for lower life expectancy and National Cancer Institute at Nagpur. higher rates of infant mortality in people suffering from such illness. Prevalence of Sickle Cell gene is 5% to 34% in certain communities which are socio-economically Varisthajana Swasthya Sewa Abhiyan: disadvantaged and are frequently medically Doorstep medical treatment for elderly, underserved. ONGC Ankleshwar is working with women and children Gujarat Red Cross on Sickle cell & Thalassemia screening Varishthajana Swasthya Sewa Abhiyan (VSSA) is ONGC’s programme. This project covered nearly 1,500 people initiative in partnership with HelpAge India to implement from villages of Dediyada & Sagbara taluka of Narmada Mobile Medicare Units (MMUs) across India. The objective District. Blood samples including children, youth and of this project is to provide healthcare support to India’s elders were taken for this research project. excluded elderly population to help them live their lives with Among them sample population, 23.68% were dignity. This section of population usually faces challenges detected as sickle cell trait, whereas 1.20% was in getting proper access to healthcare delivery facilities affected by sickle cell disease, 0.26% was found as either due to poor level of services by the existing healthcare Thalassemia minor, among the population 0.53% are facilities or lack of financial resources or other physical / having Iron Deficiency and 0.20% were detected as mobility reasons. other Haemoglobinopathies. Studies of these nature The project was initially launched from 2010 to 2016 with are imperative to minimise the rate of Sickle cell and 20 MMU’s through which more than 1.58 Million treatments Thalassemia disease from the society. Both ONGC were provided to the needy population. Based on the impact Ankleshwar and Gujarat Red Cross have pledged to assessment report of the first phase, approval was accorded work for this continuously. for extension of the project till 2019 along with engaging 91 comprehensive cancer treatment, patient care and research Swachh Bharat Initiatives through sustainable charity. In addition to providing general During the year, number of flagship initiatives have cancer care, the institute will also create specialty groups been undertaken under Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, with an of highly skilled professionals. The institute also plans to expenditure of INR 1,844.6 Million. The company has not only start an University recognized training courses for nurses, paramedical staff and medical fraternity including super Swachh Bharat Initiative: specialty training in Oncology and PhD programs. Key Highlights ONGC has extended support of INR 1,000 Million for construction of first, second floor and procurement of medical • INR 1,844.6 Million worth of CSR projects/Program equipment for radio diagnostic facilities (like MRI, CT scan, implemented across the country ultrasound, mammography, x-ray and bone marrow density • 21,085 Individual Household Latrines (IHHL) meter etc.) for the hospital. The equipment has already been constructed across India commissioned on the ground floor of the hospital and is • 53 community toilets projects successfully executed already being used for investigations of patient. Dr. Aabaji • 234 school toilets constructed Thatte Seva Aur Anusandhan Sanstha is the implementing partner for this project. Primary beneficiaries of the project • 181 Water RO Plant/ Water ATM projects executed will be patients referred by NGOs, local physicians in and • 358 Tube Wells were installed around 500 km radius of Nagpur. It is expected to benefit • 11 Solid Waste Management projects initiated people from Vidharbha region of Maharashtra, parts of • 14 projects on Smoke Free Village Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh. • 3 projects on development and beautification of parks Project Saraswati The ancient and mythological river Saraswati has been known since the Indus valley civilization. There are several places in Haryana, Punjab and Rajasthan where evidence is found of its existence, as the water from this river is known to surface at several places. To tap the water of river Saraswati which is flowing several hundred meters below the surface, Haryana Saraswati Heritage Development Board (HSHDB) approached ONGC. A survey was conducted by a team of experts from ONGC to locate the paleo-channels existing underground in the northern part of indo-gangetic plains. Accordingly, it was agreed by ONGC for drilling of 10 wells, where there is a high possibility of tapping water. An agreement was signed with Water and Power Consultancy Services Limited (WAPCOS) for drilling these wells. Nine out of ten wells have been successfully drilled and producing water in good quantity. ONGC is further getting this water tested through the National Institute of Hydrology-Roorkee, for its quality and carbon dating to ascertain whether it is actually Saraswati water. Live the Molecule constructed toilets, but is also working on the root cause of the problem like improper maintenance of toilets due to lack Solid Waste Management of awareness and other behavioural issues in the community. Project at Rameswaram ONGC is also conducting educational campaigns on the With a vision to make the city of Rameswaram Clean importance of health, hygiene and good sanitation facilities. and Green, “Green Rameswaram” Initiative was ONGC’s contribution to Swachh Bharat Abhiyan envisages launched by the Former President of India, Late Dr. A P the promotion of health of the community by providing J Abdul Kalam. Vivekananda Kendra Vidyalaya, Nardep clean environment and thus breaking the cycle of disease. committed itself to turn the vision of the former President a reality and started cleaning initiative Constructing toilets to curb open defecation along with not-for-profit organization ‘Hand In Hand’. ONGC has undertaken an initiative for making villages near its The initiative was targeted at four municipal wards area of operation Open Defecation Free (ODF). The Company of Rameswaram, located around 25 km from ONGC has taken this initiative for construction of Individual Household Ramnad GCS. Being close to ONGC’s operational area Latrine across the country in partnership with district and considering the positive impact of the project on administration and other NGOs. In FY’18, more than 21,085 community, ONGC contributed INR 9.5 Million towards IHHLs were constructed in and around ONGC’s operational the initiative. The project activities include setting up areas in Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Jharkhand, Assam and other of robust infrastructure for solid waste management, providing vehicles for door to door waste collection, states of the country with an investment of INR 846.6 Million. developing and putting in place systems and human The company is ensuring the sustainability of this intervention resources for ensuring cleaning of roads, drains, by involving communities from the very beginning. collection of garbage and waste, segregation of waste into recyclable and biodegradable categories and Clean Himalaya Initiatives processing of the waste in both the categories in a sustainable manner. ONGC became the leading company to spearhead the Swachhta initiative in the Himalayas. The project Based on the success and the impact of the first phase is being implemented in partnership with the Indian of the project, the second phase of the project was Mountaineering Foundation (IMF) at a cost of INR 8.76 extended and an amount of INR 9.49 Million has been Million. sanctioned towards implementing the second phase. • Thirteen cleaning expeditions undertaken in Himachal Pradesh & Uttarakhand in last three years • Tons of garbage brought and disposed in an ecofriendly manner. Glimpses of ONGC’s Clean Himalaya Initiative Temporary storage and segregation of solid waste 93 Harit Moksha This is a unique CSR initiative of ONGC undertaken with Mokshda Paryavaran Evam Van Suraksha Samiti (MPEVSS) to reduce burning of fossil fuel by setting up Mokshda Green Cremation Systems (MCGS). This is an ongoing project commenced in 2010 with 30 units of green cremation system installed in 8 cities of 7 different states with a budget of INR 91.9 Million. The project was successfully completed and has resulted in savings of approximately 13,700 tonnes of wood and 26,500 tonnes of GHG emissions till date. Considering the impact of this project, 4 new centers have been installed in Pilibhit and Delhi. Green cremation system installed by ONGC Bio-CNG Plant at Haridwar ONGC has undertaken a unique initiative in Haridwar to convert cow dung to useful fuel and value added products by setting up Bio-CNG cum Fertilizer & Bottling Plant at Haridwar at a cost of INR 16 Million. The plant will be run by the largest Gaushala in Uttarakhand and will help maintaining clean hygienic waste management in the Gaushala premises. It will facilitate availability of clean environment to the local population of Haridwar and also help in protecting the fauna i.e. 2,200 non-milching cows at Gaushala by way of making the Gaushala self-sustaining from the revenue generated from the project. The plant will also produce organic solid and liquid fertilizers which will be distributed among the local farmers thereby promoting organic farming. Live the Molecule Restoration of Kunds in Varanasi ONGC has been consistently taking concrete steps to revive the vividity of Varanasi city. It took the responsibility of cleaning and beautification of four famous Kunds of Varanasi namely Durga Kund, Lakshmi Kund, Lat Bhairav Kund and Karim Kund at a cost of INR 114.6 Million. This initiative is supporting Swachh Bharat Abhiyaan driven by Government of India. The project is being implemented in partnership with National Buildings Construction Corporation Ltd and Nagar Nigam Varanasi. Restoration of Kunds in Varanasi Promoting education, skill development and livelihood enhancement ONGC’s initiatives under this thematic area covers a wide range of subjects from promoting Sanskrit language to setting up a B.Ed. College to establishing Ekal Vidyalayas. ONGC has undertaken various projects for the promotion of education, skill development and enhancement of livelihood. Some of the major initiatives in the field of education and skill development are as follows: Key Highlights • Project worth INR 1,250.76 Million implemented towards education, livelihood and skill development. • Imparted skill development training to 6,058 youth and women. • Created employment opportunity for 4,821 youth & women. • Spent more than INR 192 Million towards creating the infrastructure like class rooms, hostels and smart class rooms. • Funded for 420 Ekal Vidyalayas in the remote areas of the country. • Assistance in the form of Scholarships amounting to INR 4,000/p.m. to more than 1,500 students belonging to SC/ST and BPL families across the country. 95 ONGC Skill Development Institute at Ahmedabad In line with the Skill India Mission of Government of India, Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas has taken the initiative to set up six Skill Development Institutes (SDI) across the country with funding from Oil sector PSEs. ONGC was directed to set up a SDI at Gujarat. NSDC and KPMG was engaged to carry out a detailed need assessment survey to start the SDI in Gujarat. Based, on the report of these two expert agencies, SDI Ahmedabad was set up by engaging M/s Aspire Disruptive Skill Foundation as the training partner for the institute. The training was imparted in three different trades namely Fitter Fabrication, Industrial Welding and Technician (Production), with 30 students in each batch. The first batch of 90 students has successfully completed their training in 3 different courses in March 2018. All the 90 students were successfully placed in different companies located near Ahmedabad. Considering the success of the first batch, the number of trades will be increased from three to nine from next year onwards benefiting 780 youths. ONGC contributed an amount of INR 136.20 Million towards setting up of these 6 SDIs across India. Students at SDI , Ahmedabad Revival of Sanskrit Language To revive the Sanskrit language, the company has taken up revival of Sanskrit in India and abroad. Research on Sanskrit an initiative through the Sanskrit Promotion Foundation with education, nationwide survey and data collection are some a total financial implication of INR 57 Million. This project highlights of this project. The Phase-2 of the project has been includes the development of online tools and tutorials for launched from November 2017, for which an amount of INR students, teachers and guardians at formal and in-formal 59 Million has been sanctioned. school levels. This project is a step-forward towards the Live the Molecule Ekal Vidyalaya Understanding the significance of quality education for children, especially in their early years, ONGC has partnered with Bharat Lok Shiksha Parishad for reaching remote villages across the country in its operational area for providing free education to children through ‘Ekal Vidyalaya’. This project covers 420 Ekal Vidyalayas, in rural, tribal and backward areas in 10 states. It is targeted to impart free basic informal education to 24,000 students, with a financial implication of INR 19 Million, for a period of two years. Ekal Vidyalaya class in progress ONGC Super 30 Under an innovative initiative to support willing and hardworking students to get admission in premier institutes of India, ONGC has set up an ONGC Super 30 centre at Sivasagar. This is a flagship programme of ONGC, where the objective is to train 30 aspiring students every year to get admission in IITs and other premier engineering institutes of our country. A total of 85 students in three batches have already completed the training since 2014 out of which 18 secured admission in institutes like IIT’s and NIT’s, 54 got admission in other premier institutes and the remaining 13 students opted for other courses. The fourth batch of 30 students are currently undergoing training at Sivasagar, “ONGC Super 30 centre”. The project is being undertaken in partnership with an NGO Centre for Social Leadership. An amount of INR 28 Million has been sanctioned towards this project since the last four years. ONGC Super 30 centre at Sivasagar 97 Skill Development through CIPET Rural Development Projects Two separate projects were undertaken with CIPET for training economically underprivileged youth in plastic Model Village Development for Revival technology at Bhubaneswar and Jaipur respectively. A total of Korbong Community at Tripura of 217 youth have been trained in two different courses With a surviving population of only 120, the Korbong in tool room mechanic operator and injection moulding community of Tripura was on the verge of extinction. machine operator. The total cost for both projects is INR 15 To save this rapidly disappearing community, ONGC Million. After completing 6 months residential training, all the partnered with Tribal Engineer’s Society to develop 217 youth have been placed at different companies related to this village into self-sustained model by utilising the plastic engineering. Integrated Village Development approach. As part of this project, permanent infrastructure was developed Water Hyacinth project for for community centre, market shed, toilet blocks and rural women of Sivasagar irrigation facilities. Also, livelihood opportunities were Through this CSR initiative of ONGC, 50 women of created for piggery, goatery, fishery, etc. It was a holistic Sivasagar district, Assam have been trained by North intervention for revival of the Korbong community Eastern Development Finance Corporation Ltd. (NEDFi) with a financial implication of INR 6.5 Million. to develop product from water Hyacinth. 20 of these women were further trained by experts from National Institute of Design to make superior products, as per the demand of the market. The complete value chain has been mapped under which a facilitation centre has been set up at Nimajan in Sivasagar and a retail outlet has been opened for selling the finished products. The women trained under this program are currently imparting training to others. An amount of INR 3.3 Million has been sanctioned towards implementing this project. Community Center at Korbong, Tripura Key Highlights • INR 196 Million worth of rural development projects undertaken. • Undertaken infrastructure development work for two Model Village project Under Sansad Adarsh Gram Yojna at Yigi Kaum village in Arunachal Pradesh and Natun Jelom village, in Assam. • Undertaken 67 different projects for strengthening Women trained by North Eastern Development Finance Corporation Ltd. (NEDFi) rural roads near ONGC operational areas. Live the Molecule CSR interventions have been taken up which include open ONGC Solar Street Lights project defecation free Initiative by constructing 1,300 Individual Household Latrine (IHHL), lightning the dark alleys of the ONGC has sanctioned 8,853 solar street lights worth village by installing 200 Solar lights, creating drinking and INR 177 Million for lighting remote villages of the portable water facilities, providing 12 nos. of boats to the country in the last one year. MNRE recognized partners villagers for creating sustainable livelihood, construction of are empanelled by the Company for installing the 40 nos. of school toilets and several livelihood generation solar street lights as per the predefined specifications. and infrastructure development project in the last one year. These agencies also ensure maintenance of these ONGC has contributed INR 63 Million for this project. street lights through AMC. Awards and accolades ‘Good Corporate Citizen’ PHD Chamber Awards PHD Chamber of Commerce bestowed ‘Good Corporate Citizen’ award to ONGC during Annual Awards for Excellence-2017 in October 2017. The award was given to ONGC for its meaningful CSR policies as well as a robust Health Safety & Environment (HSE) framework in operations. Solar Street Lights installed by ONGC Indian Chamber of Commerce PSE Excellence Development of Mangalajodi, Odisha Awards Chilika Lake, the largest brackish water lake and a unique ONGC was declared the Winner in the Corporate bio-diversity of our country attracts Millions of migratory Social Responsibility & Sustainability, Human Resource birds from across the globe. Mangalajodi, a tiny village Management, Corporate Governance categories in the PSE located at the backwater of Chilika Lake has been the host Excellence Award. These awards were given away during the to these birds. ONGC is in the process of taking up a project 7th Summit of the Indian Chamber of Commerce in September with UNESCO to help declare Chilika Lake as a World Heritage 2017. ONGC was also bestowed with the Company of the site. But, prior to taking up the project with UNESCO, the Year, Jury award. Company has taken up a 360 degree approach to develop Mangalajodi village. Based on need assessment, multiple Ankleshwar bags Governor’s Award for CSR ONGC Ankleshwar Asset has been awarded special award for promotion of Thalassemia Prevention by Indian Red Cross Society, under CSR. The award was presented during an award ceremony held at Raj Bhavan, Gandhinagar. ONGC Videsh All of ONGC Videsh’s operations are based outside India. However, ONGC Videsh has been undertaking community development projects in and around its project locations (i.e. outside India) as per local requirements/guidelines/practices prevailing in the countries of operations as per contractual Mangalajodi village, Odisha 99 requirements without using the CSR funds. For FY’18, the of Anganawadis has helped in nurturing the children company spent a total of INR 41.11 Million towards CSR and pregnant women. Physically handicapped persons activities outside India directly or through its JVs. For the are supported with the help of artificial limb in the camp previous FY’17, its CSR expenditure was INR 40.02 Million. organized by MRPL and also with the aids and equipments Carrying forward the spirit of parent company towards CSR, provided through the District Health Department. Villagers are benefitted by the services of the doctor & free medicines Imperial Energy (part of ONGC Videsh), Tomsk organized are given by MRPL in the neighbouring two villages. several welfare related events in Tomsk region of Russia during FY’18. Shiksha Samrakshan MRPL Activities that promote education, especially in Anganawadis, government and government aided schools. Under the focus Since its inception, MRPL has been undertaking CSR activities area of education, MRPL is working for the betterment of under the name ‘Samrakshan’. Pursuant to the introduction of schools by facilitating mid-day meals in schools, distributing the Companies Act, 2013, followed by the release of Company books and building toilet blocks in schools located around (CSR Policy) Rules, 2014 by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs the refinery. MRPL has also organised a programme on and Guidelines on CSR and Sustainable Development (SD) for environment protection and emergency, LPG safety for 4 PreCPSEs by the Department of Public Enterprises (DPE), MRPL university colleges and High Schools around the refinery. The is rededicating itself to ensuring sustainable and equitable company has also aided in development of Science Lab at development through a well-orchestrated CSR programme. Govt. P.U. College, Krishnapura. The key focus areas of MRPL’s CSR activities are rural transformation, health, education, sanitation. The company Arogya Samrakshan has taken up programs that benefit the communities in and MRPL is promoting health care, by way of running Primary around its operational areas, which results in enhancing the Health Centres in rural areas. MRPL is running a free PHC at quality of life & economic well-being of the local populace Chellairu Rehab Colony. The company is also promoting over a period of time. MRPL focuses on such CSR initiatives preventive healthcare by taking steps towards making which results in community goodwill for MRPL and help Jokatte, Permude, Soorinje and Chelaieru Grama Panchayat reinforce a positive & socially responsible image of the smoke-free villages. Company as a corporate entity. During the FY’18, MRPL has contributed INR 103.0 Million towards various community Bahujana Samrakshan development initiatives as against INR 14.5 Million spent in This is an umbrella Integrated Village Development thematic FY’17. area for MRPL. As part of this programme, infrastructural support is being provided to the villages near the operational CSR in the area of health and sanitation areas. The sub-projects implemented under this programme The CSR initiative taken up by the company has been are specially designed for vulnerable population like women, successfully adopted by the community. There are lots of children, SC/ST communities and physically and mentally improvements in the area of education, sanitation, health, challenged population. infrastructure development, environment in rural and downtrodden communities of the society. The quality of Prakriti Samrakshan living with respect to hygiene has improved in rural SC/ST MRPL is working towards providing infrastructural support for communities. Smoke free village programme initiative taken drinking water supply to the neighbouring villages. As part by the company has helped in improving the health condition of the larger gamut of the project, awareness programmes of the women in village. Solar street lights installed in villages are also being conducted in the schools and villages on have helped the villagers to save energy. Construction environment management. Live the Molecule Sanskriti Samrakshan improvements in extra-curricular activities of the students. Similarly, feedback on improvement of the living standard MRPL is continually striving towards protection of local historical of the village residents is taken from the Gram Panchayats, and cultural artefacts, historical monuments and heritage where various CSR projects involving construction of class sites. The company is also taking steps towards promotion of rooms, science/ computer laboratories, toilets, distribution local artisans, craftsmen, musicians and artists to preserve our of scholarship, uniform, books, furniture such as class room culturally rich art forms. desks/ benches, computers, are taken up. Swachhta Mission ONGC Mangalore Petrochemicals Ltd. (OMPL) MRPL is actively supporting the Swachh Bharat Mission by OMPL is fully committed to ensuring equitable and Government of India. Under the initiative, MRPL is providing sustainable growth of society in and around the area of its financial assistance to Swachh Mangaluru Abhiyan, which operations besides complying with government directives is being implemented in association with the Ramakrishna to discharge its social responsibility. CSR activities are Mission. As part of Swachh Vidyalaya Abhiyan, MRPL is also essentially guided by project based approach in line with providing support for construction and maintenance of the provisions of Companies Act, 2013. A CSR Policy has toilets in government schools. been approved by the Board of Directors in its 55th meeting MRPL also conducts impact assessment studies after held on August 01, 2016, which is uploaded on OMPL’s completion of every CSR project, by taking feedback from website. The Committee has not made any provision for CSR the beneficiaries. Different mechanisms are used to gather activities during FY’18 as there was no average net profit feedback from different set of stakeholders. In order to during the immediately preceding three financial years. provide, robust school infrastructure in schools, feedback is However, OMPL continues to engage with the surrounding collected regarding impact indicators such as improvement communities to promote sustainable development through of attendance, academic performance of the students, and the following initiatives: Blood Donation Camp OMPL, in association with AJ Hospital in Mangalore, organised a blood donation camp at OMPL on 9th August 2017. A total of 125 members participated in the blood donation camp. Swachh Bharat Abhiyan in OMPL An employee volunteering activity for Swachh Bharat Abhiyan was organised by OMPL in Kateel Area and Bajpe area (in association with Bajpe Grama Panchayat). The event witnessed participation from 150 employees of OMPL, who also performed street plays after the cleanliness drive. Eight dustbins were also distributed to the temple authorities after the event. 101 Joint Ventures CSR Expenditure ONGC Petro additions Limited (OPaL) OPaL aims to harmonise its core values and business For its CSR programmes, OPaL has identified three key areasoperations to meet the expectations of all stakeholders. education including skill development, healthcare and Since its inception, OPaL has been implementing numerous infrastructure development for improving the quality of life social welfare activities for the benefit of the local population. of the local population near the Dahej site. With the issuance of DPE guidelines on CSR for PSUs, OPaL In FY’18, OPaL’s CSR expenditure has been INR 4.1 Million. has re-invigorated the CSR programme in right earnestness. Over the years, OPaL has contributed towards providing OPaL’s CSR objective is to continue and strengthen the drinking water facilities, organising health camps in villages, neighbourhood development programme (NDP)/CSR and providing school bags and other articles for school activities for achieving inclusive growth of the surrounding students. population. ONGC Tripura Power Company (OTPC) OTPC has always considered CSR as its responsibility and a part of its extended business activity. The company believes that giving back to society is not a mandate but something that is integral to its vision and values. The total CSR budget of OTPC for the reporting year was INR 13.5 Million. During FY’18, the company, based on the need assessment study, took various CSR initiatives for promoting education, sports, health, sanitation, skill development and community development in the nearby areas of its power plant in Palatana, Tripura. This aided in enhancing the quality of life and economic well-being of the general public and weaker sections of the society. OTPC spent INR 11.7 Million in this process. OTPC could not spend INR 1.8 Million during FY’18, as a major CSR project on development of Rural Road could not be undertaken due to General Elections in the State of Tripura, leading to non-identification of suitable road in due time by the authorities. The project will be taken up in FY’19 and the budget has been carried forward for the same. OTPC considers education as key focus area for creating impact. With this view, OTPC implemented CSR projects aimed at construction of infrastructure for schools at various locations during the year. OTPC believes that for long-term sustainability of the projects, it is imperative to involve the community. Thus, the CSR activities are carried out with the involvement of local panchayats, authorities, bodies and local villagers. Initiatives undertaken by the company were appreciated by local community. In addition, OTPC has organised general health check-ups and free distribution of medicines for villagers at Purbo Mugpushkarni Gram Panchayat, Tripura. The company is keen to work towards the betterment of sports in the state. In order to strengthen sports in schools, the company is laying a strong foundation by distributing sport equipment. One such example was distribution of sports equipment at Jamjuri HS School and Kakraban Girls High School in Tripura. Live the Molecule 103 105 Annexures CONTENT INDEX Disclosure Description Report Section for Cross Reference Page No. GRI 102: Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of the organization About the report Page 20-21 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services About the report Page 20-21 102-3 Location of headquarters About the report Page 20-21 102-4 Location of operations ONGC – A Pioneer in Energy Sector Page 22-29 102-5 Ownership and legal form ONGC – A Pioneer in Energy Sector Page 22-29 102-6 Markets served ONGC – A Pioneer in Energy Sector Page 22-29 102-7 Scale of the organization About the report Page 20-21 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Our People, Our Strength: Our Human Capital Page 64-73 102-9 Supply chain Supply Chain Page 84-85 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain Supply Chain Page 84-85 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach ONGC – A Pioneer in Energy Sector Page 22-29 102-12 External initiatives ONGC – A Pioneer in Energy Sector Page 22-29 102-13 Membership of associations ONGC – A Pioneer in Energy Sector Page 22-29 GRI 102: Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Statement from the Management Page 6-19 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Corporate Governance Page 29-32 GRI 102: Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Corporate Governance Page 29-32 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Corporate Governance Page 29-32 GRI 102: Governance 102-18 Governance structure Corporate Governance Page 29-32 102-19 Delegating authority Corporate Governance Page 29-32 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, Page 29-32 Corporate Governance and social topics 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and Page 36-37 Materiality Assessment social topics 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its Page 29-32 Corporate Governance Committees 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Corporate Governance Page 29-32 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body Corporate Governance Page 29-32 102-25 Conflicts of interest Corporate Governance Page 29-32 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, Page 29-32 Corporate Governance and strategy 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body Corporate Governance Page 29-32 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance Corporate Governance Page 29-32 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, Page 36-37 Materiality Assessment and social impacts 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes Corporate Governance Page 29-32 107 Disclosure Description Report Section for Cross Reference Page No. 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics Materiality Assessment Page 38-39 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting Corporate Governance Page 29-32 102-33 Communicating critical concerns Corporate Governance Page 29-32 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns Materiality Assessment Page 36-37 102-35 Remuneration policies Our People, Our Strength: Our Human Capital Page 64-73 102-36 Process for determining remuneration Our People, Our Strength: Our Human Capital Page 64-73 GRI 102: Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder Engagement Page 33-35 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Our People, Our Strength: Our Human Capital Page 64-73 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Stakeholder Engagement Page 33-35 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder Engagement Page 33-35 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Stakeholder Engagement Page 33-35 GRI 102: Reporting Practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements About the report Page 20-21 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries About the report Page 20-21 102-47 List of material topics Materiality Assessment Page 36-37 102-48 Restatements of information About the report Page 20-21 102-49 Changes in reporting About the report Page 20-21 102-50 Reporting period About the report Page 20-21 102-51 Date of most recent report About the report Page 20-21 102-52 Reporting cycle About the report Page 20-21 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report About the report Page 20-21 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards About the report Page 20-21 102-56 External assurance About the report Page 20-21 GRI 201: Economic Performance GRI 103 Management approach disclosure Economic Performance Page 38-39 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Economic Performance Page 38-39 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans Our People, Our Strength: Our Human Capital Page 64-73 201-4 Financial assistance received from government Economic Performance Page 38-39 GRI 302: Energy GRI 103 Management approach disclosure Climate change and energy Page 44-45 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Energy performance Page 44-45 302-3 Energy intensity Energy performance Page 44-45 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Energy conservation measures taken in the Page 44-45 reporting year GRI 303: Water GRI 103 Management approach disclosure Water Management Page 56-59 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Water Management Page 56-59 303-3 Water recycled and reused Water Management Page 56-59 GRI 103 Management approach disclosure Biodiversity Page 60-63 Live the Molecule Disclosure Description Report Section for Cross Reference Page No. 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, Page 60-63 protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside Biodiversity protected areas 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on Page 60-63 Biodiversity biodiversity 304-3 Habitats protected or restored Biodiversity Page 60-63 GRI 305: Emissions GRI 103 Management approach disclosure Page 44-55 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Page 44-55 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Moving towards a smaller environmental Page 44-55 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions footprint Page 44-55 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Page 44-55 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Page 44-55 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Waste Management Page 56-59 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste GRI 103 Management approach disclosure Page 56-59 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination Page 56-59 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Water and Waste Management Page 56-59 306-3 Significant spills Page 56-59 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste Page 56-59 GRI 307: Environmental Compliance GRI 103 Management approach disclosure Biodiversity Page 60-63 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Biodiversity Page 60-63 GRI 401: Employment GRI 103 Management approach disclosure Page 64-73 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Page 64-73 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not Our People, Our Strength: Our Human Capital Page 64-73 provided to temporary or part-time employees 401-3 Parental leave Page 64-73 GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes Our People, Our Strength: Our Human Capital Page 64-73 GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety GRI 103 Management approach disclosure Safety and Security Page 74-83 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint management–worker Page 74-83 Safety and Security health and safety committees 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost Page 74-83 days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related Safety and Security Fatalities 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with Page 74-83 Safety and Security trade unions GRI 404: Training and Education GRI 103 Management approach disclosure Page 64-73 Our People, Our Strength: Our Human Capital 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Page 64-73 109 Disclosure Description Report Section for Cross Reference Page No. 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition Page 64-73 assistance programs 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and Page 64-73 career development reviews GRI 406: Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Human Rights Page 73 GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom Page 73 Human Rights of association and collective bargaining may be at risk GRI 408: Child Labor 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of Page 73 Human Rights child labor GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of Page 73 Human Rights forced or compulsory labor GRI 410: Security Practices GRI 103 Management approach disclosure Safety and Security – Security Management Page 74-83 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights policies Safety and Security – Security Management Page 74-83 GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment GRI 103 Management approach disclosure Page 73 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures Page 73 412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts that Human Rights Page 73 include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening GRI 413: Local Communities GRI 103 Management approach disclosure Towards self-sustaining communities Page 87-102 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact Page 87-102 Towards self-sustaining communities assessments, and development programs GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment GRI 103 Management approach disclosure Supply Chain Page 84-85 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Supply Chain Page 84-85 GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and Corporate Governance Page 29-32 economic area Water and Waste Management Page 55-59 Biodiversity Page 60-63 Safety and Security Page 74-63 Live the Molecule ABBREVIATIONS List of Abbreviations API American Petroleum Institute BCM Billion Standard Cubic Meter bopd Barrels of oil per day CDM Clean Development Mechanism COD Committee of Directors CPSE Central Public Sector Enterprise CSR Corporate Social Responsibility CVO Chief Vigilance Officer DFCU Dual Feed Cracker Unit DGMS Directorate General of Mines Safety DPE Department of Public Enterprise EMS Environment Management System ETP Effluent Treatment Plant ETCS Effluent Treatment and Collection System FIPI Federation of Indian Petroleum Industries FY Financial Year GHG Greenhouse Gas GOHDS Gas Oil Hydro-De – Sulphurising GMI Global Methane Initiative GRM Gross Refining Margin GRI Global Reporting Initiative GNPOC Greater Nile Petroleum Operating Company HPDE High Density Polyethylene HSD High speed diesel HSE Health, Safety and Environment IPPAI Independent Power Producers Association of India IPSHEM Institute of Petroleum Safety, Health and Environment Management ISO International Organisation for Standardisation JV Joint Venture KDMIPE Keshav Dev Malviya Institute of Petroleum Exploration KTPA Kilo-Tonnes Per Annum LNG Liquefied Natural gas LPG Liquefied PetroleumGas MCA Ministry of Corporate Affairs MECL Mansarovar Energy Columbia Ltd. MMSCM Million Metric Standard Cubic Meters MMT Million Metric Tonnes MMtoe Million Metric Tonnes of Oil and Oil Equivalent Gas MMTPA Million Metric Tonnes per annum MRPL Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Limited 111 MSEZ Mangalore Special Economic Zone NELP New Exploration Licensing Policy NGO Non-Governmental Organization OGSS Oil and Gas Sector Supplement OHS Occupational Health and Safety ONGC Oil and Natural Gas Corporation ONGC Refers to ONGC group of companies ONGC, ONGC Videsh, MRPL and Joint VenturesOMPL, OPaL and OTPC Group OMPL ONGC Mangalore Petrochemicals Limited ONGC ONGC Videsh Limited Videsh OISD Oil Industry Safety Directorate OPaL ONGC Petro additions Limited OTBL ONGC Teri Biotech Ltd. OTPC ONGC Tripura Power Company OVVL ONGC Videsh Varkorneft Pte. Limited O+OEG Oil and Oil Equivalent of gas PMHBL Petronet MHB Limited PPE Personal Protective Equipment PX Para-xylene PWC Produced Water Conditioner SCOPE Standing Conference on Public Enterprises SDG Sustainable Development Goal SKO Superior Kerosene Oil UNFCCC United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change UNGC United Nations Global Compact UNISDR United Nations International Strategy for Disaster Reduction WBCSD World Business Council for Sustainable Development WRI World Resource Institute ZBRR Zero Based Risk Review Live the Molecule
