Banking for better, for generations to come ABN AMRO Group N.V. Integrated Annual Review 2018 Welcome to ABN AMRO’s 2018 Integrated Annual Review. The theme of this report is our purpose: Banking for better, for generations to come. This means better for stakeholders and better for society as a whole. 4 About This 2018 Integrated Annual Review explains how, over time, ABN AMRO creates values for its stakeholders and society – this not only as a bank and provider of financial services, but also as an employer and investor. This Review describes our business, strategy and performance; it also explains our system of governance, and report how we take decisions in the long-term interests of both ABN AMRO and its stakeholders. Statement from our Executive Board As ABN AMRO’s Executive Board, we take responsibility for short, medium and long term. This Review also addresses the content and accuracy of this report. Our Integrated Annual ABN AMRO’s most important risks and opportunities from ABN AMRO ABN Bank AMRO N.V.N.V. Group ABN ABN AMRO Bank AMRO Group N.V.N.V. ABN AMRO Group N.V. Annual Report 2018 Additional Pillar 3 Other sustainability disclosures disclosures Review gives a fair and balanced picture of ABN AMRO’s both a financial and non-financial viewpoint. It is intended performance, strategy and management, as well as the bank’s for all stakeholders, but is of particular interest to providers ability to create value for stakeholders and society over the of financial capital. ABN AMRO takes a ‘core and more’ approach to reporting. This Review is our ‘core’ report. We publish a series of other ‘more’ reports. These include our Annual Report, which contains the bank’s financial statements, as well as our Executive and Supervisory Board reports. We also issue regular Pillar 3 disclosures and updates on ABN AMRO’s sustainability performance, Kees van Dijkhuizen Clifford Abrahams Tanja Cuppen Christian Bornfeld human rights, value-creating topics and stakeholder engagement. Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Chief Risk Officer Chief Innovation & Technology Officer For more information about our approach to reporting, see page 47 or go to abnamro.com/annualreport. We have used the International Integrated Reporting Framework as the basis for this Review. This framework is issued by the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). EY, our assurance provider, has also verified that this Review is in accordance with the IIRC’s framework (see page 53). 5 Contents The world Our performance Governance Our bank around us Our strategy & outlook & leadership Appendix 6 16 21 27 37 46 6 Our bank 8 What we did in 2018 17 The world around us 20 Opportunities & risks 22 Our strategy 24 Key indicators & targets 28 Performance: clients 30 Performance: employees 38 Interview with our Supervisory Board Chairman 47 Our approach to reporting 50 Income statement 10 Interview with our CEO 25 Front runners 33 Performance: society 40 Governance & leadership 51 Statement of financial position 12 Creating value for 35 Performance: investors 44 Executive Committee 52 Non-financial indicators our stakeholders 36 Outlook 45 Supervisory Board 53 Assurance Report 14 How we create value from independent auditor 6 Our bank / Our bank Our bank ABN AMRO is one of the Netherlands’ leading banks. We have a clear purpose: Banking for better, for generations to come. This means supporting clients in their transition to sustainability, reinventing the customer experience and building a bank that is fit and ready for the future. In the Netherlands, more than one in five people bank with ABN AMRO. To our clients, we provide loans, mortgages and other banking services and we lend to business. In doing so, we help drive economic growth. Geography Rest of the world Europe Number of employees (in FTEs) 18,830 By business segment By geography (in FTEs) (in %) 2 2 1 4,445 12 6,328 2,734 2,528 2,795 83 Retail Banking Netherlands Commercial Banking Rest of Europe Private Banking USA Corporate & Asia Australia: Sydney Asia: Shanghai, United Arab Emirates: USA: Dallas, Hong Kong, Tokyo Dubai (to be closed) New York, Chicago Institutional Banking Rest of the world Brazil: São Paulo and Singapore Group Functions Subsidiary Branch offices Main European operations 7 Loans and advances to customers (2018) Operating income by business (2018) Net profit Retail sales made digitally (in EUR billions) (in EUR millions) (in EUR millions) 42.52 3,517 220 2,116 2,325 >70% 41.75 (vs. EUR 2,791 million in 2017) (vs. 37% in 2017) 148.79 1,899 12.26 1,340 Return on equity Employee engagement Residential mortgages Consumer loans Commercial banking loans Corporate & Institutional banking loans Retail Banking Commercial Banking Private Banking Corporate & Institutional Banking 11.4% (vs. 14.5% in 2017) (vs. 79% in 2017) 80% Group Functions We have four businesses: Retail Banking, Commercial Banking, Private Banking and Corporate & Institutional Banking. The Netherlands accounts for approximately 80% of ABN AMRO’s revenues. We are focused on Northwest Europe and are active in specific markets globally. To support our business, we have a number of centralised group functions, based at our head office in Amsterdam. Retail Banking Commercial Banking Private Banking Corporate & Institutional Banking In the Netherlands, we have approximately Our Commercial Banking operations serve around ABN AMRO is one of the eurozone’s leading private Our Corporate & Institutional Banking business five million retail clients. We’re the country’s 365,000 small and medium-sized businesses (each banks, serving around 100,000 clients with over has around 3,000 clients in the Netherlands and second largest provider of home loans and with an annual turnover of up to EUR 250 million). EUR 180 billion in client assets. We provide wealth internationally. It works with large companies and a significant provider of savings products. Most clients are based in the Netherlands, but we management, investments, finance and estate multinationals in sectors like food, manufacturing, We provide full-service banking: loans, mortgages, also serve companies in France, Germany, Belgium planning. ABN AMRO MeesPierson is a market retail and utilities. We’re also a global leader bank accounts, savings accounts, investments and the UK. leader in the Netherlands. Our other local brands in clearing. and credit cards. We have a network of 135 bank include Neuflize OBC in France, Bethmann Bank in branches across the Netherlands. Germany, ABN AMRO Private Banking in Belgium and ABN AMRO Channel Islands in Guernsey. 8 Our bank / What we did in 2018 What we did in 2018 January ÅÅ ABN AMRO launches Franx, March a digital platform ÅÅ Christian Bornfeld is for forex trades appointed ABN AMRO’s May and international new Chief Innovation ÅÅ ABN AMRO launches payments. & Technology Officer. its EUR 200 million ÅÅ The bank suffers ÅÅ Through its Digital Energy Transition Fund. a series of DDoS 1 Impact Fund, ABN AMRO ÅÅ The bank joins a new attacks, disrupting buys a stake in German initiative to halve online services. FinTech SolarisBank. business travel by 2030. February April June ÅÅ Olga Zoutendijk steps ÅÅ ABN AMRO issues ÅÅ ABN AMRO enters down as Chairman its third green bond, into a partnership of ABN AMRO’s worth EUR 750 million. with Opportunity Supervisory Board. Network, an online ÅÅ ABN AMRO signs a new platform for collective labour agreement entrepreneurs. with Dutch trade unions. ÅÅ ABN AMRO agrees to sell its Private Banking operations in Luxembourg. 1 Distributed Denial of Service. 9 July ÅÅ Shareholders vote to appoint November Tom de Swaan as the bank’s ÅÅ ABN AMRO unveils its new Supervisory Board strategy refresh, based on the Chairman. purpose ‘Banking for better, ÅÅ ABN AMRO announces for generations to come’. the acquisition of Societe ÅÅ The European Banking Authority Generale’s Private Banking (EBA) confirms ABN AMRO’s business in Belgium. strong capital position after ÅÅ ABN AMRO agrees to speed September its latest stress tests. up compensation to clients for ÅÅ komgo is launched – ÅÅ ABN AMRO organises its first interest rate derivatives. a new digital commodity Investor Day in London. ÅÅ ABN AMRO, ING and Rabobank trade network based on ÅÅ Two new members are issue new guidelines to blockchain technology. nominated to ABN AMRO’s encourage investments ABN AMRO is one of Supervisory Board: Anna in circular economy projects. 15 backers. Storåkers and Michiel Lap. August October December ÅÅ ABN AMRO makes ÅÅ ABN AMRO’s Groenbank ÅÅ Along with two other it easier for clients reopens its doors as investors, ABN AMRO’s over 56 to take out demand increases Energy Transition Fund new mortgages or for green financing. buys a 100% stake in withdraw equity wind power company from their homes. De Wieken. ÅÅ ABN AMRO reaches agreement to sell part of its stake in the investment funds belonging to ABN AMRO Participaties. 10 Our bank / Interview with our CEO Interview with our CEO It’s been an eventful year for ABN AMRO. CEO Kees van Dijkhuizen talks about the bank’s refreshed strategy, the importance of sustainability and being able to do your banking anywhere, any time. It’s been three years since the IPO. In the past, sustainability wasn’t really for this from employees. Ninety-three percent say they How is ABN AMRO doing? a priority for banks. What’s changed? want to build a sustainable bank. The fact is, we can’t We’re doing very well. We made a lot of promises at We spent a lot of time with clients. You don’t need to do this if we don’t have committed staff. the IPO. We’ve kept those promises, even outperformed explain to them how important sustainability is! We have them. We’re proud of that. The bank is more profitable. companies that want to change their business models – This idea of ‘Banking for better’ isn’t just about We’ve brought down our cost/income ratio. We have a retail clients who want to make their homes more sustainability, is it? strong capital position. And this year, we have a refreshed sustainable. Sustainability is a business opportunity for us. No, it’s not. It’s also about being there for our clients. strategy and a new purpose – Banking for better, for We won’t be the only bank doing this – but we do want to Look at the work our financial coaches are doing, for generations to come. be a front runner. And, importantly, there’s strong support example. We have 38 of these coaches; they work directly with retail clients who are in debt or financial difficulty – to help them with digital banking and to get their finances in order. That’s also ‘Banking for better’. Banking these days is increasingly done digitally. What are the developments here? How are you approaching open banking? We are investing in our digital proposition. Take mortgages – With open banking, I don’t want other companies coming two-thirds is now done online or by video calls. You can see to our clients and saying, ‘look, we can do this better than your advisor in the evening or at weekends. For clients, it’s easy your bank’. We should be developing our own products, – and much quicker. We’re also giving clients the opportunity like Tikkie. And also engaging with new partners to see to use ‘wearables’ – so they can pay, for example, with a watch how we can work together. We should think more in or a ring. With all apps, it really is like having ‘a bank in your terms of ‘customer journeys’. What does it take to pocket’. And our big advantage is we can help clients protect their open a new business, for example? Or buy a home? data at the same time. This is about trust – these days, privacy What steps are there? At the moment, maybe we’re and trust are the bank’s crown jewels. involved in two or three of those steps. Why can’t we be involved in more? 11 With digitalisation, what’s the effect on employees? Mortgages account for nearly 60% of your loan book. The workplace is changing. Within ABN AMRO, we’re working in You’re not worried this is too much? a much more agile way. And we’re helping employees progress No. In some areas of the Netherlands, it’s true, the housing and develop – and learn new skills. Unfortunately, because of market is overheated. Overall there’s still a shortage of houses. digitalisation, we need fewer people in our branches and offices. It’s difficult to build new houses quickly in the Netherlands. For those affected, we try to find positions elsewhere in the We see very few mortgage defaults, and almost no negative bank – it’s not always possible. We hope that if people do leave, equity. Also, more clients now have these low interest rates wherever they go, they become ambassadors for ABN AMRO. locked in for twenty years or more. I have to say, these are the best assets on our books. I’m very happy with them. “We spent a lot of time with clients. How do you look back on 2018? You don’t need to explain to them It’s definitely been a year of ups and downs. We had some how important sustainability is.” legacy issues, such as interest rate derivatives and cum/ex transactions. And there were changes in our Supervisory Board. I hope, in 2019, we’ll be in calmer waters. Above all, in 2019, With low interest rates and volatile markets, we should see our efforts start to bear fruit – and show we where do you see growth coming from? are now more client-oriented, more sustainable, with a highly We’ve had low interest rates for some time. Once rates engaged workforce. I thank our staff for their commitment normalise, we’ll see moderate growth return – certainly and our clients for their trust in ABN AMRO. in our mortgage business and in Commercial Banking, both in and outside of the Netherlands. Looking at the last employee survey, not all results “I thank our staff for their were positive. How are you addressing that? commitment and our clients And at Corporate & Institutional Banking? Overall, engagement was up. That’s good news. Client focus, for their trust in ABN AMRO.” In CIB, we are refocusing our business – to make sure it’s too. We know what the issues are. It’s about not setting priorities, profitable and can grow again. To do that, we’ll concentrate not taking decisions quickly enough. But we will tackle this. on specific sectors – where we can be a leading player. Don’t forget the survey took place before we announced Clearing is a good example – globally, we’re consistently the refreshed strategy. With this and the purpose, we’ve given in the top three for clearing. Overall with CIB, as with all our the bank a clear, new direction. businesses, we’re aiming for a return on equity of at least 10%. 12 Our bank / Creating value for our stakeholders Creating value for our stakeholders We’re committed to creating long-term value for our stakeholders. This value may be financial, social or environmental. For our clients, peace of mind may be the most important value we offer. We recognise however that, through our business activities, we may also decrease value – when we close bank branches, for example, or invest in projects that impact the environment. Our model (on pages 14 and 15) shows the flow of this value – from the resources Our business model or ‘capitals’ we consume in our business to the financial, social, environmental or ÅÅ As a bank, a large part of our revenue comes from net interest income – economic value we create or deplete as a result of our activities. This model is based that’s the difference between the interest we pay on deposits and wholesale on the framework developed by the International Integrated Reporting Committee (IIRC). funding and the interest we charge on loans and mortgages. For more information, see our separate Value Creation Report, available online. ÅÅ We also offer other products and services – these include investments, payment services and financial transactions. We offer insurance to retail clients. To our How we Our purpose Outputs & outcomes corporate clients we provide strategic advice and access to capital markets. create value Banking for better, for generations to come Financial ÅÅ We sell most products directly to clients – online or through our branches. Our strategic pillars1 We create financial value for both investors and employees. Based on our proposed final dividend, shareholders are to receive almost EUR 1.4 billion in returns for 2018. Employees, meanwhile, receive salaries and other benefits; in 2018, these totalled EUR 2.4 billion. We also provide financial Support clients’ transition to sustainability Reinvent the customer experience Build a future-proof bank Input Å Responsible investment & financing Å Customer experience Å Viable business model value to society as a whole; we paid EUR 762 million in corporate income tax last year to support public services. By making a sustainable profit, we can manage our capital position more effectively – and reinvest in our business for the future. Last year, ABN AMRO’s CET1 ratio – the bank’s Å Circular economy Å Co-creation and innovation Å System stability main capital measure – rose to 18.4%. See our value Å Ethics and integrity Å Digitalisation Å Talent attraction Financial Interest income, 1 The issues mentioned under each strategic pillar are our value-creating topics – this is where we believe the bank can create the most value for stakeholders and society. However, we also use intermediaries – for example, when selling mortgages. fees & commissions, funding from investors Manufactured L e nd i Clients derive value from our products and services – through financial advice, for example, or round-the-clock banking. Our lending helps support gs ng & businesses; by the end of 2018, our corporate loan book amounted to EUR 91 billion. We also create wealth and well-being through our home loans; vin Le Sa as in 2018, we granted more than 52,000 new mortgages in the Netherlands. in creation model g Manufactured Suppliers and other For services, we receive fees or commissions; we want to increase our income external resources Human & Intellectual ge s In v e We offer training and career development; this provides value not only for our employees, but also for investors and society – through the M o rtg a creation of a skilled, well-trained workforce. In 2018, we spent nearly EUR 42 million on training. We also recognise that poor working conditions s tm en ts or health problems related to stress can affect employees. For the majority, however, work increases life satisfaction – and a positive working Human and Intellectual environment leads to greater motivation and engagement. ABN AMRO’s employee engagement score increased last year to 80%. on pages 14-15 Time, skills, knowledge of our workforce, systems, processes Social from these, in part to avoid too much reliance on interest rates. Together, fees, and technology Our services allow clients to manage their finances efficiently; funding business also helps drive economic growth and create jobs for society. At the same time, we realise that financing certain businesses may have a negative social impact – if they underpay their workers, for example, Social or are complicit in human rights abuses. We support society by helping tackle these issues – also by working with the authorities to combat money en Ad laundering, tax evasion and other forms of financial crime. Relations with stakeholders Paym vic e (clients, employees, ts investors and society), internal policies and Natural governance structures Capital Markets commissions and net interest income account for around 90% of our revenues. Financing homes and businesses may affect the environment, contribute to climate change and health problems, because of pollution and poor air quality. It may also increase consumption of already scarce natural resources. We aim to limit this impact and create value – by providing Business model more sustainable financing and incorporating environmental considerations into our lending and investment decisions. Natural Energy and other natural Å We provide financial services; these include personal, commercial and corporate lending, mortgages, payments, savings, advice, and asset management resources consumed by Å We fund mortgages and lending through savings and capital markets and actively manage the associated risks our business activities Å In return, we receive an interest margin, fees and commissions In the chart above, the width of each line provides an indication only of the relative size of capital flows in and out of the business. Å From our income, we meet our operating costs, reinvest in our business and pay out returns to our investors These lines do not reflect actual flows. For value outputs, dotted lines denote value ‘lost or depleted’. ÅÅ From our income, we pay operating costs; we pay our suppliers, for example – and we pay salaries and benefits to our employees. We meet other financial Stakeholder engagement commitments: we pay taxes, reinvest in our business, and – from our profits – We regularly engage with our stakeholders1 – through polls, surveys, meetings, pay returns to shareholders. conferences and seminars. We hold frequent client roundtables to discuss products ÅÅ Digitalisation is fundamentally changing our business – from the way we interact and services. And we organise special stakeholder dialogues; these address key social with clients and manage our back-office operations, to the competition we face and environmental issues – areas where we may not always agree with each other. and the products and services we sell. Over the past three years, we’ve discussed climate change, data privacy, tax, labour rights and biodiversity. We use stakeholder feedback to improve our products, customer service, processes and management. We also engage directly with companies we lend to or invest in; this helps us maintain social, environmental and ethical standards. 1 ABN AMRO defines its stakeholders as: “any group or individual the bank affects through its activities or products and services or who, in turn, may affect the bank’s ability to achieve its goals as a business”. Using this definition, we recognise four main stakeholder groups: our clients, employees, investors and society. For more information, see page 13. 13 Stakeholder expectations & impact Through regular dialogue, we have a clear understanding of our stakeholders’ expectations and of the value we can create as a bank, and as an employer, investor and responsible corporate citizen. Stakeholders Expectations Impact Who are our stakeholders? What do stakeholders expect of us? Where might we create or deplete value? ÅÅ Retail and SME clients ÅÅ Round-the-clock banking services Clients derive value from our products and services – from secure banking, 24/7 Clients ÅÅ Commercial, Corporate and Institutional ÅÅ Access to loans, financing and quality advice digital access to their finances, and the knowledge that we will protect their Banking clients ÅÅ A bank that puts clients’ interests first personal data. Value may be depleted, however, through poor service or customer ÅÅ Private Banking clients ÅÅ Positive, seamless customer experience experience, or through products that fail to deliver as expected. ÅÅ Public sector clients ÅÅ Brokers, intermediaries and other distributors ÅÅ All full-time and part-time employees ÅÅ Fair salaries and benefits Employees benefit from salaries, training and career development – also from Employees ÅÅ Sub-contractors ÅÅ Reward for good performance a working environment that encourages engagement and attracts new talent. ÅÅ Training, development and career opportunities Value may be decreased, however – by a poor corporate culture for example, ÅÅ Open, collaborative working environment or increased job insecurity. ÅÅ Shareholders, bondholders ÅÅ Stable and controlled risk appetite Investors receive regular dividends and interest payments; we can add value by Investors ÅÅ Well-managed balance sheet delivering positive financial results and ensuring the bank has a strong balance sheet, ÅÅ Regular, sustainable returns on investments management with vision and leadership, and a business model that can adapt quickly to changing market conditions. Investors may lose value, however, through poor productivity, bad management, a reduction in dividends or poor share price performance. ÅÅ Suppliers and external consultants ÅÅ Investment in sustainable, long-term economic We contribute to society by investing responsibly, ensuring we behave with integrity, Society ÅÅ Business partners growth and development complying with regulations and acting to deter corruption and other financial crime. ÅÅ Local communities ÅÅ Source of employment and financial expertise We also pay taxes, support local communities and make payments to business ÅÅ Governments and regulators ÅÅ Contribution to public services through partners. Through our financing, we can also drive sustainable economic growth. ÅÅ Other non-governmental organisations a responsible approach to tax However, we may deplete value by financing companies and activities that cause ÅÅ Support for local communities through donations social or environmental damage. and employee volunteering ÅÅ Responsible and ethical business practices How we Our purpose create value Banking for better, for generations to come Our strategic pillars1 Support clients’ transition to sustainability Reinvent the customer experience Build a future-proof bank Input Å Responsible investment & financing Å Customer experience Å Viable business model Å Circular economy Å Co-creation and innovation Å System stability Å Ethics and integrity Å Digitalisation Å Talent attraction Financial Interest income, 1 The issues mentioned under each strategic pillar are our value-creating topics – this is where we believe the bank can create the most value for stakeholders and society. fees & commissions, funding from investors L e nd i n gs ng & S a vi Le as in g Manufactured Suppliers and other external resources ge s In v e M o rtg a Human and Intellectual s tm en ts Time, skills, knowledge of our workforce, systems, processes and technology Social en Ad Relations with stakeholders Paym vic e (clients, employees, ts investors and society), internal policies and governance structures Capital Markets Business model Natural Energy and other natural Å We provide financial services; these include personal, commercial and corporate lending, mortgages, payments, savings, advice, and asset management resources consumed by Å We fund mortgages and lending through savings and capital markets and actively manage the associated risks our business activities Å In return, we receive an interest margin, fees and commissions Å From our income, we meet our operating costs, reinvest in our business and pay out returns to our investors Outputs & outcomes Financial We create financial value for both investors and employees. Based on our proposed final dividend, shareholders are to receive almost EUR 1.4 billion in returns for 2018. Employees, meanwhile, receive salaries and other benefits; in 2018, these totalled EUR 2.4 billion. We also provide financial value to society as a whole; we paid EUR 762 million in corporate income tax last year to support public services. By making a sustainable profit, we can manage our capital position more effectively – and reinvest in our business for the future. Last year, ABN AMRO’s CET1 ratio – the bank’s main capital measure – rose to 18.4%. Manufactured Clients derive value from our products and services – through financial advice, for example, or round-the-clock banking. Our lending helps support businesses; by the end of 2018, our corporate loan book amounted to EUR 91 billion. We also create wealth and well-being through our home loans; in 2018, we granted more than 52,000 new mortgages in the Netherlands. Human & Intellectual We offer training and career development; this provides value not only for our employees, but also for investors and society – through the creation of a skilled, well-trained workforce. In 2018, we spent nearly EUR 42 million on training. We also recognise that poor working conditions or health problems related to stress can affect employees. For the majority, however, work increases life satisfaction – and a positive working environment leads to greater motivation and engagement. ABN AMRO’s employee engagement score increased last year to 80%. Social Our services allow clients to manage their finances efficiently; funding business also helps drive economic growth and create jobs for society. At the same time, we realise that financing certain businesses may have a negative social impact – if they underpay their workers, for example, or are complicit in human rights abuses. We support society by helping tackle these issues – also by working with the authorities to combat money laundering, tax evasion and other forms of financial crime. Natural Financing homes and businesses may affect the environment, contribute to climate change and health problems, because of pollution and poor air quality. It may also increase consumption of already scarce natural resources. We aim to limit this impact and create value – by providing more sustainable financing and incorporating environmental considerations into our lending and investment decisions. In the chart above, the width of each line provides an indication only of the relative size of capital flows in and out of the business. These lines do not reflect actual flows. For value outputs, dotted lines denote value ‘lost or depleted’. 16 The world This section gives an overview of developments around us that influence our current and future activities. In this section: 16 The world around us 17 Economic growth 17 Low interest rates 17 New technologies 17 Society’s expectations 17 Rules & regulations 19 Value-creating topics 20 Opportunities & risks 17 The world around us Our business is affected by different social and economic factors. These may include new regulations, the increased use of digital technologies, or volatile market conditions. Trust in banks is not yet restored, especially in the Netherlands. These factors affect not only our business and performance but also our ability to deliver long-term value to our stakeholders and society. Economic growth In many cases, new technologies also allow direct Over the past year, we’ve seen continued growth in the transactions between producers and consumers – Dutch economy – around 2.5% in 2018, compared with without the cost or inconvenience of going through just below 2% for the eurozone as a whole. Along with a bank. Over time, this could erode banks’ traditional this economic growth, we’ve also seen a strong, but role as a financial intermediary. competitive, housing market – the result of continued demand and a shortage in houses for sale. Society’s expectations Society’s expectations are shifting. The 2015 Paris Economic growth is positive for our business, Agreement calls on business to play its part in fighting particularly for lending. Going into 2019, however, there climate change. Making a profit is no longer enough; are signs that global economic growth may be slowing. society also expects companies to help tackle social and Confidence has weakened; trade and industrial output environmental issues. Financial companies have a role in have declined. Stock markets also fell sharply in the New technologies mobilising resources to support the UN’s sustainable final quarter of 2018. In Europe, there are concerns With digital technology, clients expect quick, ‘frictionless’ development goals and to help combat financial crime. over budget problems in Italy and the UK’s planned service. So we’re redesigning our products, processes withdrawal from the European Union. and distribution. There’s also more emphasis on data Rules & regulations security and protecting clients’ privacy. In recent years, we’ve seen a step-up in financial services Low interest rates regulation. Regulators have looked to strengthen protection Interest rates have remained at historic lows. The European At the same time, digital technology has reduced the for consumers and investors, and to ensure the long-term Central Bank’s deposit rate has been stuck at -0.4% since need for bank branches. In five years, we’ve closed stability of the financial system. In recent years, we’ve seen March 2016. This has a considerable effect on our business. more than 220 branches in the Netherlands. Technology new proposals on capital requirements – among others, The ECB rate acts as the basis for other rates – this means, means more efficiency, opportunities for new products through Basel IV. There has also been new regulation in effect, lower rates on mortgages and loans. For us, as and services, but it has also increased competition, in data protection, as well as stricter rules on both the a bank, it means lower margins and reduced profitability. particularly from tech companies and online-only banks. use of internal risk models and on financial reporting. 18 The world around us / The world around us Basel IV – changes to capital rules We’re also stepping up customer due diligence – to help ÅÅ Basel IV will increase overall capital requirements Since the financial crisis, we’ve seen significant in the fight against money laundering and financial crime for European banks, including ABN AMRO. Ultimately, changes in capital rules for banks. Basel III, (see page 34). In sustainability, we have the TCFD 3 the aim of Basel IV is to strengthen confidence in agreed in 2010, ties the amount of capital banks framework on climate disclosures – and the EU’s recent the banking sector (see separate text on this page). must set aside to the amount of risk on their action plan on sustainable finance, aimed at creating ÅÅ IFRS9 was introduced at the beginning of 2018; books. Like other banks, ABN AMRO uses internal a greener and more sustainable EU economy. the new requirement effectively resets reporting models to calculate this. These models assign rules for assets and impairments. Over time, this very low risk to our Dutch mortgages. This is New regulations may bring extra costs – in many cases, may mean increased volatility in the impairments because, historically, we’ve had very we need to update our internal systems and processes. we report as part of our financial results, as well few mortgage defaults. New proposals from But, if implemented correctly, new rules should increase as earlier recognition of provisions against losses. regulators mean, in future, we would have transparency and strengthen consumer confidence. ÅÅ The ECB is carrying out a review of bank’s internal to use regulatory models for our calculation. models, known as TRIM4. This review will take in These models put a higher risk weighting on For ABN AMRO, there are also opportunities – to adopt banks across the eurozone. There is also a new mortgages and part of our corporate loan book. new technologies, to work with external partners and definition of ‘default’ planned for 2021. In response, to make the most of new regulations by offering clients we’ll be upgrading our models to match increased We estimate that, overall, these changes – add-on services that weren’t possible before – in areas expectations from regulators. known informally as Basel IV – would increase like online accounting, cash flow forecasting and ÅÅ The EU’s Markets in Financial Instruments Directive, our risk-weighted assets by approximately 35%1; risk management. or MiFID II, steps up protection for consumers and the result would be an increase in our capital investors. The directive should make European financial requirements. We’re confident we can manage markets more transparent and efficient. To comply, this. Implementation isn’t due to begin till 2022. ABN AMRO has upgraded its processes and IT systems. To prepare, we are re-evaluating our products. Restructuring our Corporate & Institutional Banking business, meanwhile, will also help reduce our capital needs. For 2019, we’ve included a 4-5% ‘Basel IV’ buffer in our main CET12 capital target; including this buffer, our target is now 17.5-18.5%. 1 Following mitigation measures. 2 Common Equity Tier 1 (ratio shows the bank’s tier 1 capital as a percentage of risk-weighted assets). 3 Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures. For more information, please see our 2018 Annual Report. 4 Targeted Review of Internal Models. 19 Value-creating topics Note on methodology All four main stakeholder groups were consulted, We carry out a regular review of our operating environment; Our review is based on both external and internal input – and weighted equally. Senior management included this allows us to identify the most important topics for from stakeholders and our own senior management: members of ABN AMRO’s Executive Committee and the bank – social, economic, financial or environmental. ÅÅ To arrive at our value-creating topics, we first compiled their direct reports, as well as the bank’s Challenger From these we selected our ‘value-creating topics’: where a ‘long list’ of around 300 issues; this was shortened 40 group of managers and experts. we believe we have the most to contribute – and where, to 35 of the most important topics (based on an analysis ÅÅ Results were then presented to the Executive potentially, we can create the most value for our of media, trend reports, peer disclosures, reporting Committee for discussion and approval. The Executive stakeholders and society. These nine selected topics form requirements etc. We also carried out an extensive Committee made adjustments to management input the basis of our strategy. In addition, we’ve identified other big data search). to reflect the bank’s recently refreshed strategy. ‘fundamental value creators’ – these are basic, ‘hygiene’ ÅÅ We asked stakeholders and senior management factors that protect our long-term licence to operate. to rank these topics in order of importance. As part of the assessment, each topic was examined from the perspective of the bank and its ability to create value over both the short and long term. Ranking was Value-creating topics based on two factors: ÅÅ The extent of a topic’s potential impact on value ÅÅ Responsible investment & financing Strategic pillar 1 creation (magnitude), and ÅÅ Circular economy Support clients’ transition to sustainability ÅÅ How likely a topic was to bring about this impact ÅÅ Ethics & integrity (likelihood). ÅÅ Customer experience Strategic pillar 2 The 2018 assessment covered all ABN AMRO’s businesses ÅÅ Digitalisation Reinvent the customer experience and consolidated entities worldwide. The assessment ÅÅ Co-creation & innovation was overseen by a Materiality Project Team, which held regular meetings and calls to monitor progress. ÅÅ Viable business model Strategic pillar 3 This team worked closely with a separate Expert Advisory ÅÅ System stability Build a future-proof bank Group (EAG), comprising subject-matter experts from ÅÅ Talent attraction across the bank (including Investor Relations, Customer Experience, Strategy, Communications and Operational Fundamental value creators Risk; the EAG also included two representatives of Employee empowerment, client data See Our strategy (page 21) ABN AMRO’s Employee Council). protection, anti-corruption, regulatory compliance (including corporate governance), For more information on our 2018 assessment, secure banking, strong balance sheet, see our separate Value-Creating Topics Report, adaptability, vision & leadership. available online. 20 The world around us / Opportunities & risks Opportunities & risks The table below shows our main value-creating topics. Against each, we’ve mapped out risks and opportunities – both for our business and our stakeholders over the short, medium and long term. Value-creating topics For ABN AMRO For our stakeholders Our approach Opportunities Opportunities ÅÅ Responsible investment ÅÅ Key business opportunity in helping clients switch to sustainability ÅÅ Increased financing for clean technologies We’ll work with clients to help & financing ÅÅ Reduced social and environmental risk ÅÅ New, more sustainable business models, supply chains and products & services them shift to more sustainable ÅÅ Circular economy ÅÅ New investment opportunities and better performance from current investments ÅÅ Reduced environmental and social risk business models, step up ÅÅ Ethics & integrity ÅÅ Support for greater energy efficiency in homes ‘green’ financing, and improve energy efficiency in our real Risks Risks estate portfolio. We’ll also take ÅÅ Potentially lower investment returns if certain sectors are excluded or de-emphasised ÅÅ Less financing for certain sectors and businesses (particularly those with a responsible and ethical ÅÅ Increased costs from additional due diligence etc. when applying minimum ESG standards higher social or environmental risks) approach to banking. ÅÅ Loss of trust if we fail to meet ethical standards or fulfil our role as gatekeeper ÅÅ Higher costs for some businesses (to bring themselves into line with of the financial system ABN AMRO’s minimum standards) Opportunities Opportunities ÅÅ Customer experience ÅÅ Improved customer loyalty and trust in our services ÅÅ Quicker customer service – convenient, 24/7 access to banking and We’ll look to improve customer ÅÅ Digitalisation ÅÅ Greater efficiency and reduced operating costs payment services experience by investing in new, ÅÅ Co-creation & ÅÅ Develop new products, services and distribution – and work with outside partners ÅÅ Increased demand for digital skills – in areas like IT and data analytics digital technologies, working innovation ÅÅ Create more open, agile and collaborative working within the bank with external partners and investing in new business Risks Risks models. ÅÅ Increased competition as technology lowers the entry barrier ÅÅ Job losses in areas vulnerable to automation like sales and trading ÅÅ ‘Disintermediation’ as new technologies weaken the traditional role of banks ÅÅ Branch closures with more clients preferring to bank online as intermediaries ÅÅ Increase in fraud, identity theft and other cyber crime ÅÅ Loss of direct contact with clients Opportunities Opportunities ÅÅ Viable business model ÅÅ Improved trust and regulation, bringing future growth ÅÅ More secure, long-term investment for shareholders and other investors We will adapt our working ÅÅ System stability ÅÅ Increased customer loyalty, based on reliable services ÅÅ Opportunity for corporate clients to grow their businesses alongside ours environment, bring in new ÅÅ Talent attraction ÅÅ Talented employees, able to drive improvements and implement strategy effectively ÅÅ Creation of highly skilled workforce skills, streamline our systems and processes, and protect Risks Risks our clients from the effects ÅÅ If we fail, potential loss of trust, business and market share ÅÅ Lost business for clients (in case of significant systems failures) of cyber crime. ÅÅ More difficult to retain clients and attract the right talent ÅÅ Increased competition in labour market for digital skills ÅÅ Weaker ‘social licence to operate’ ÅÅ Need for more investment in modernising IT and strengthening information security ESG: Environmental, social and governance Key: – short-term, – medium-term, – long-term These are indicative only. Where there is an effect over the short, medium and long term, we have included the most significant effect only. 21 Our strategy This section gives an overview of our strategy and purpose. In this section: 22 Our strategy 22 Support our clients’ transition to sustainability 22 Reinvent the customer experience 23 Build a future-proof bank 24 Key indicators & targets 25 Front runners 25 Dutch mortgages 26 REKO 26 Climate pioneer 22 Our strategy / Our strategy Our strategy In November 2018, we launched our refreshed strategy. This strategy is built around our purpose: Banking for better, for generations to come. Our strategy is based on three strategic pillars. These ensure we address the most important issues for us as a bank: from where and how we invest to digitalisation, customer service, attracting new talent and accelerating the shift to sustainability. Support our clients’ transition to sustainability Reinvent the customer experience Strategic pillar 1 Strategic pillar 2 We want to help our clients make the switch to sustainability. Among Dutch companies, We want to give clients fast, flawless service – service that is right first time, every more than 50% already say they want to make their businesses more sustainable. time. Our goal is to take the hassle out of banking. That means tackling our clients’ We see this as a business opportunity – but we know that, in helping our clients, ‘pain points’ – when they’re opening accounts, for example, or applying for loans. we’ll also support the wider fight against climate change. To improve customer experience, we will invest in digitalisation – to speed up We’re increasing sustainable financing for our Commercial Banking clients – by 2020, service and lower our operating costs. We will continue to invest in apps like Tikkie we expect this to be at least EUR 3 billion. As part of this, we’re putting more into and Grip, which we developed with the Swedish FinTech Tink. We’ll also extend the circular economy – into companies and businesses that reuse materials and the use of other new technologies, like AI and advanced analytics. keep waste to a minimum. We’re also upping our investments in renewable energy. Our private banking business has made sustainability the default option for new clients. At the same time, there will be more focus on ‘customer journeys’ – so we increase We want to increase clients’ sustainable investments with us to a total of EUR 16 billion contact with our clients and better understand their needs. We will also ‘co-create’, by 2020. working with outside partners where it makes sense – to extend our products and services, and build new eco-systems. Our retail bank will look at growth markets – in For retail clients, ABN AMRO is offering green loans to make homes more energy insurance and investments, for example, or among the self-employed and ‘almost retired’. efficient. Nearly 40% of the Netherlands’ energy use comes from homes and offices. By 2030, we want all residential and commercial properties on our books to be rated We will continue to invest in innovation – through our Group Innovation team and average A for energy efficiency, up from D currently. We’re encouraging our retail, Digital Impact Fund. In doing so, we’re building up our knowledge and expertise, corporate and private banking clients to be ‘sustainability rated’ – so we can identify constantly learning from our in-house tech ‘challengers’ like New10 and Franx. potential risks and opportunities. Over the next few years, we want to increase our Net Promoter Score – the measure We will also lead by example – taking a responsible approach to investment we use for customer experience. Serving our clients better should lead to an increase and lending, reducing our carbon footprint and behaving with ethics and integrity. in NPS for all our business lines by 2020. 23 Build a future-proof bank Our contribution to the United Nations Strategic pillar 3 Sustainable Development Goals We want to build a future-proof bank; this means continuing to engage our employees, The United Nations launched its Sustainable Development developing new skills and improving internal processes. It also means attracting new Goals in 2015. There are 17 goals in all, covering everything talent and investing in employee development. ABN AMRO will also press ahead from poverty and hunger to human rights and climate with investment in technology and alternative business models – to remain viable change. We have identified three ‘strategic’ goals – and continue to create value for stakeholders and society. where we believe, through our strategy, we have the most to contribute, both as an investor and provider As part of this approach, we’re adapting our working environment. We are bringing on of financial services. skills in areas like digital technology, analytics and sustainability – skills that are crucial to our strategy. This is part of a new, more agile way of working. Ultimately, we want Goal ABN AMRO’s contribution to build a purpose-led organisation – one that encourages high performance, engages ÅÅ Human rights and labour standards built employees and allows us to attract the best talent. into the bank’s lending, investment and procurement policies Where possible, we’re streamlining our products and services. We’ve reduced the ÅÅ Loans and support to small and medium-sized number of mortgage products we offer, for example. And, in Private Banking, we’re businesses to help them expand, drive harmonising our services and IT platforms across Europe. Our goal is to improve economic growth and create new jobs efficiency, and provide fast, convenient digital services and ‘hassle-free banking’. ÅÅ Social impact bonds, raising funds to help young people on state benefits into work We’re also taking a digital-first approach, continuing to modernise our IT systems. In IT, we want to hit the ‘sweet spot’ – investing enough in IT, but never too much. ÅÅ Loans to upgrade infrastructure, improve We estimate that is around 12-13% of our income1. More resources will go into system energy efficiency and retrofit industries security – to protect our clients and ensure constant access to services. We’ll invest in with cleaner technologies the latest technology and continue to work closely with regulators and the police to help ÅÅ Stepping up financing for circular stamp out financial crime. economy activities We’re refocusing Corporate & Institutional Banking (CIB). Many CIB activities deliver ÅÅ Mission 2030: upgrading clients’ residential sufficient returns – but, as a whole, CIB wasn’t meeting the group target for return on and commercial properties to average equity. To improve profitability, we’re reducing capital allocated to CIB, particularly to A label for energy efficiency businesses like trade & commodity finance – and sectors like offshore shipping, where ÅÅ Green financing through our green bonds, earnings are volatile. These measures will mean lower revenues, but we will also bring down Energy Transition Fund and Green Bank costs by EUR 80 million – mainly through staff reductions and other savings. By 2021, we’re in the Netherlands targetting a double-digit return on equity from CIB – in line with our group financial targets. ÅÅ Working with clients to increase their sustainable investments 1 For 2018, our spending on IT was approximately 16% of income. 24 Our strategy / Key indicators & targets Key indicators & targets In addition to our 2017/2018 results, we’ve put in place a series of new targets for 2019/2020 to support our strategy refresh. Group targets Metric Target 2020 2018 2017 Non-financial Gender diversity in top 30% women in top 28% 25% Gender diversity in subtop 35% women in subtop 27% 28% Dow Jones Sustainability ­Index (DJSI) ranking1 Top 5% of Top 5% of Top 5% of banking sector banking sector banking sector Banking Confidence Monitor Leading among large 3.3 3.2 Dutch banks Financial Return on average equity 10-13% 11.4% 14.5% Cost/income ratio 56-58% 58.8% 60.1% CET1 (fully-loaded) 17.5-18.5% 18.4% 17.7% Dividend payout ratio At least 50% of 62% 50% net sustainable profit Strategic pillars Metric Target 2020 Target 2019 20182 Support our clients’ We are committed to our � Renewable energy commitment as a % of energy portfolio 20% 14% transition to clients’ transition to become � Sustainability financing EUR 3.0 billion EUR 1.5 billion sustainability more sustainable � Sustainability investments (client assets) EUR 16 billion EUR 14.5 billion We provide our clients with insight � Clients rated on our sustainability rating tool 100% 3 100%3 into their sustainability performance We help our clients invest in � Average energy label (residential properties) 63% rated A-C 61% rated A-C making their homes and real estate � Average energy label (commercial properties) 31% average A 23% average A more sustainable Reinvent the Net Promoter Score (relational) � R etail Banking / Private Banking / Commercial Banking / Corporate & Institutional Banking ≥ -3 ≥ +3 ≥ +3 ≥ +36 ≥ -6 ≥ +1 ≥ 0 ≥ +324 -9 -1 -2 +45 customer experience Build a future-proof Employee engagement 80% 80% 80% bank 1 Please note that, under the DJSI, scores are not directly comparable because of regular recalibration and changes to methodology (2018: 86; 2017: 91). 2 Blank indicates new targets introduced as part of the 2018 strategy refresh. The targets have been set according to the following baselines (in same sequence as table): 12%; EUR 750 million; EUR 13.9 billion; within Corporate & Institutional Banking: 100%, excluding financial institution clients; 59.4% rated A-C; 13% average A. 3 Within Commercial Banking, this includes all CBC clients; within Corporate & Institutional Banking, this includes all clients with the exception of financial institution clients. 4 For Corporate & Institutional Banking, we expect a decrease in 2019 in our Net Promoter Score (relational) following recent organisational changes. For more non-financial indicators please see page 52. 25 Front runners Dutch mortgages ABN AMRO is using data and new technology to make life simpler for mortgage clients. And, from 2019, the bank will be offering new loans to increase energy efficiency. Mortgages are an important part of ABN AMRO’s business; the bank is one of the Netherlands’ leading mortgage providers. In recent years, the bank has significantly reduced the number of mortgage products it offers – part of broader efforts to simplify the bank’s processes and make life easier for clients. ABN AMRO is also using its influence as a mortgage lender to support the country’s shift to sustainability. By 2030, ABN AMRO wants properties on its books rated an average A for energy efficiency, in line with the Dutch government’s climate aims. “We’re making smarter use of data,” says Claire Dumas, ABN AMRO’s Director of Mortgages. “For example, in Energy efficiency some regions, we’re testing a new scheme. With this In 2019, ABN AMRO will start offering clients a scheme, we’ll be able to tell some clients exactly how ‘sustainable mortgage’. With this mortgage, clients can much they can borrow and at what interest rate even borrow up to EUR 25,000 to fund home improvements – before they find a house. That means, when the client like solar panels or loft insulation. “Clients can do the does put in a bid, it’s no longer ‘subject to financing’.” ‘energy savings check’ on our website. That tells them how much they’ll need to spend and how much they’ll Instant mortgages save on their energy bills,” says Ms Dumas. “And if you “We’re also developing ‘instant mortgages’ – where want individual advice, one of our ‘energy saver’ partners Claire Dumas we use data to make our mortgage offer straight away will come to your house and give you a price quote. Director of Mortgages instead of within 24 hours – the current timeframe.” It’s quick and easy.” 26 Our strategy / Front runners REKO Climate pioneer With financing from ABN AMRO, REKO B.V. is turning Entrepreneur Dick Rakhorst built his dream home – hazardous waste tarmac into heat and energy. one that generates energy rather than consuming it. Recyling Kombinatie REKO B.V. this binding agent was tar, which may “We consume far too much. It’s just not processes more than 600,000 tonnes of pose a threat to health. REKO’s process possible to get more out of the Earth waste tarmac a year; the Dutch company, strips out the hazardous material from than it contains,” says Dick Rakhorst. however, receives more waste than it asphalt, and ensures valuable raw “So, we have to use less plastic, recycle can currently handle. With a loan from materials can be extracted and used more, reuse more – and consume ABN AMRO, REKO is now building a again – a great example of the circular less energy.” second thermal decontamination machine economy. so it can increase output. Old coffee sacks Catching on When building his new home, Mr Rakhorst “The Netherlands imports a lot of sand put this philosophy into practice. He used and gravel to meet demand for asphalt wood, old coffee sacks as insulation, Good intentions and concrete,” says REKO Director and installed a clay stove, a heat pump Mr Rakhorst banks with several different David Heijkoop. “Our solution means and solar panels. “This house breathes,” banks – but he appreciates ABN AMRO’s less sand and gravel need to be produced he says. “It hardly consumes any energy – approach: “ABN AMRO is doing well – and less waste tarmac is dumped.” Now in fact, the solar panels provide energy with sustainability. The Circl pavilion REKO’s solution is catching on elsewhere for four other households and my own in Amsterdam sets a good example. – in Germany, Belgium and Switzerland. electric car.” As an entrepreneur, I’ve always tried to do the right things. And do business With its new decontamination machine, Building the house wasn’t without its with people who have good intentions. REKO will be able to triple production challenges. Mr Rakhorst’s planning You need to make people enthusiastic of raw materials and generate five times application was initially rejected. about leaving behind a better world – Circular economy more electricity. At the push of a button, Then, the authorites refused permission that’s what works best.” REKO – based at the port of Rotterdam – REKO can choose whether energy to remove underground gas pipes. developed its decontamination process released during the process is converted Some of Mr Rakhorst’s neighbours back in 2000. Asphalt consists of sand, into heat or electricity. weren’t happy with his plans – but, gravel and a binding agent. Previously, in the end, it worked out. 27 Our performance & outlook In this section, we'll cover our financial and non-financial performance. In this section: 28 Performance: clients 33 Performance: society 28 Digital access and availability 33 Supporting a more sustainable economy 28 Partnerships and eco-systems 33 Social impact 28 System security 33 Community investment 29 Accelerating the sustainability shift 34 Approach to tax 29 Products and services 34 Anti-money laundering 29 Customer loyalty & trust 35 Performance: investors 30 Performance: employees 35 Financial performance 30 The impact of digitalisation 35 Our businesses 30 Training & skills 36 Outlook 30 Changing culture 36 Economic & social conditions 31 Pay & remuneration 36 ABN AMRO’s performance and strategy 31 Diversity 32 Sustainable change 28 Our performance & outlook / Performance: clients Performance: clients Digital access and availability Our clients want quick, reliable, round-the-clock access to their bank. To help provide this, we’re investing in technologies. For our retail clients, we’ve extended internet and mobile banking. Our payments app Tikkie now has over We’re providing means for contactless payments – and have 5 million introduced chatbots on our websites. Online, we’ve added tools that make it easier for clients to manage their personal finances. registered users We’ve also been introducing new apps and platforms. Tikkie Germany’s solarisBank. We’re also working with Ockto, which now has around five million registered users, and during 2018 specialises in data storage – and with the lending platform was adding users at an average of 250,000 a month. We’re CrossLend. Meanwhile, our New10 online lender has continued expanding the use of tools like video banking – as part of a to grow. With New10, small businesses can confirm loans in just Consumer credit shift to a digital model. It’s now possible for clients to apply 15 minutes. 45% for, and obtain, a mortgage entirely online and via video. Digital now accounts for more than 70% of our retail sales. With these investments, ABN AMRO can learn more about In 2016, that figure was just 41%. Generally, digital delivers technology. We can transfer these lessons to our main banking of our consumer loans are now arranged online, much higher levels of customer loyalty than traditional banking. operations. Ultimately, this is about speeding up customer up from just 18% in 2016 service, shortening process times – moving them, in many Partnerships and eco-systems cases, from weeks to just hours or minutes. We’re looking outside the bank to build strategic partnerships. We’re mapping more ‘customer journeys’ – this allows us to System security Internet and mobile banking increase contact with our clients, extend the services we can With banking becoming increasingly digital, there’s risk of cyber Availability of our internet and mobile banking offer and go beyond the old ‘we sell what we make’ model. In crime. Last year, our systems came under attack. These attacks services last year stood at some areas, we’re also working with other financial companies: disrupted access to our services, but didn’t threaten the security 99.5% with ING and Rabobank on cash handling, for example, and with of payments or personal data. To protect our systems, we’ve  Nationale Nederlanden on insurance. invested in the latest technology. We have an information security strategy, reviewed annually. We also work closely with We’ve also invested more in new fintechs. Three years ago, the Dutch government’s Financial Intelligence Unit, as well as we set up a Digital Impact Fund with EUR 50 million available regulators, legal authorities and the police. We’re also part of the for investment. Through the Fund, we’ve bought a stake in Electronic Crime Task Force and the Security Intelligence & 29 Operations Centre. Last year, we maintained an average 99.5% insurance and integrating home insurance into our mortgage offer. Re-assessing interest access to our internet and mobile banking – still high, but down Similarly with consumer credit and investment. Over the next rate derivatives compared with 2017 and below average for the Dutch banking year, we’re confident we can add 30,000 new investment clients. Dutch banks – including ABN AMRO – have sector, largely because of outside cyber attacks at the start agreed to compensate small business clients who of the year. We’ve also made it easier for near-retirement clients to apply were sold interest rate derivatives in recent years, for a new mortgage or release equity from their existing homes. possibly without sufficient advice. Payments Accelerating the sustainability shift This is money that can be used to make home improvements – follow an agreement between the banks, the Over the past year, we’ve helped more clients make the or top up income in retirement. Netherlands Authority for the Financial Markets switch to sustainability. We’ve provided more green financing. and the government. ABN AMRO is reassessing Last year, we launched our latest green bond; we also set up At the same time, we’re reducing complexity. In Commercial approximately 7,500 client files. Currently, we’re a new EUR 200 million Energy Transition Fund – and re-opened Banking, we’re planning to halve our number of products over finalising offers to the last few hundred clients our Green Bank in the Netherlands. the next few years. We’ve also cut the number of IT applications entitled to compensation under the agreement. we use, and we’re moving to a single ‘product menu’ across Our aim is to deliver offer letters to all eligible We’ve now provided EUR 750 million in sustainable financing ABN AMRO’s private banks. This should make life easier clients by the end of the first quarter 2019. to our Commercial Banking clients, putting us on course to reach for our clients – and bring down our own running costs. At present, we don’t expect any adjustment to our 2020 target. We’ve made more than EUR 250 million in the provision we took in recent years to cover circular economy deals. And we’re stepping up our investments Customer loyalty & trust compensation to clients. in renewable energy – renewables now make up 12% of our We regularly measure customer loyalty, and use the results Corporate & Institutional bank’s energy portfolio, equivalent to improve our products and services. All our businesses use to EUR 611 million. the Net Promoter Score (NPS). Last year, there were increases in NPS1 for both our Commercial and Corporate & Institutional It’s not just businesses – we’re also helping our retail clients bank. Retail was unchanged from 2017, and Private Banking become more sustainable. We’re offering more loans for home was lower. We’ve set clear 2020 targets for improvements improvements – like solar panels and loft insulation – that will lower in NPS across our businesses. clients’ heating bills and help protect the environment. We now provide advice on energy use with every mortgage sale, and offer We also monitor trust in ABN AMRO. Trust among the bank’s a discount on mortgage rates for new, energy-efficient homes. clients rose slightly last year, according to the Dutch Banking Association’s latest Trust Monitor2. There’s work to do on Products and services transparency and client focus, however – scores are still below We’re enhancing our core products and services; we have one of the sector average. We also saw a decline last year in our online the most advanced banking apps in the Netherlands. We also see services score – the result mainly of cyber attacks on our growth in insurance. So, we’re expanding distribution of life systems early in 2018. 1 NPS measures the likelihood of clients recommending ABN AMRO to friends, colleagues or family. It is based on a 1-10 scale. Those scoring 9 or 10 are classified as 'promoters'; 7 or 8 are neutral; below 7 are ‘detractors’. NPS is calculated by subtracting the number of detractors from total promoters. Final NPS is out of 100 (maximum is +100, minimum -100). 2 Source: Dutch Banking Association, Vertrouwensmonitor 2018. For more information, see nvb.nl. 30 Our performance & outlook / Performance: employees Performance: employees The impact of digitalisation employees to take charge of their own development2 – we give The banking industry is going through profound restructuring. each employee a personal development budget to spend as they ABN AMRO is no exception. With the shift to digital, we’re wish. Last year, this budget was increased from EUR 750 to Last year, we paid out salaries creating new jobs in areas like IT and data. However, jobs are EUR 1,000 a year. Our Career Switch Scheme grants employees and benefits worth also being lost. Over recent years, our bank has been through paid time-off to learn new skills. In addition, we have clear 2.4 a significant reorganisation. By 2020, our workforce will have talent and succession programmes built into the bank’s shrunk by 14% . 1 HR processes and systems. In 2018, we spent nearly EUR 42 million on training and development – that’s the billion euros Like other banks, we need to reduce our operating costs – but equivalent of more than EUR 2,200 for each employee. we recognise that restructuring puts pressure on our workforce. Where possible, we offer jobs within the bank to those affected. Changing culture We also provide training in new skills to help employees adjust We’re working to change our corporate culture. We need to In 2018, our spending on training to the demands of the labour market – so they have the skills be more open, more innovative – ready to work with outside and development reached they need whether, ultimately, they remain with ABN AMRO partners. We also need to address employees’ concerns 42 or find employment elsewhere. over leadership at ABN AMRO. These concerns were evident in last year’s employee engagement survey (see opposite). Training & skills We’ve mapped out our ‘desired corporate values’; these million euros Our people are very important to us as ABN AMRO can include innovation, adaptability, taking a long-term perspective, only properly serve its clients if it has a highly talented and collaboration and client focus. We’re building these into our broader committed workforce. To implement our strategy successfully, approach to HR and training. We’re taking other steps, too. We’re we need new skills. We’re currently updating our ‘future skills’ moving to a more ‘agile’ way of working, putting emphasis on selfBetween 2015 and 2020, list. We want to make sure we avoid skills gaps – especially organisation, and integrating IT and business teams where it makes our workforce will decrease by in strategic areas like IT, data science and advanced analytics. sense. We’re also simplifying our jobs model, so employees can 14% Our preference is to develop skills within the bank rather than switch more easily between disciplines. We’re streamlining our IT recruit from outside. We offer extensive training programmes and admin, and re-thinking our organisational structure to cut down through our Talent2Grow catalogue. As far as possible, we want on bureaucracy and speed up decision-making. 1 Compared with 2015. 2 Based on an analysis by True Price, we estimate the value created from this spending – through new skills, opportunities and knowledge etc. – at approximately EUR 630 million. 31 Pay & remuneration Diversity Employee engagement Fair pay is an important part of employee engagement. To be successful, we believe we need a diverse We measure employee engagement every year. Our last survey We’ve agreed a 2% pay rise for employees in the workforce – one that reflects the communities and took place in October 2018. It showed an engagement rating of Netherlands for both 2018 and 2019. However, we’re clients we serve. We’re committed to a workforce that 80%, up from 79% the previous year and just below the financial also ending performance payments – part of our new is diverse and inclusive – in background, gender and sector norm of 81%, despite recent reorganisations. Encouragingly, Collective Labour Agreement, signed in February last ethnicity. Last year, ABN AMRO won the Diamond there were high scores for ‘client focus' and 'efficiency'. Our score year. Our approach to pay is set out in our Global Award for its efforts to promote more women into for 'training & development' is also above the sector average. Reward Policy; we tie remuneration directly to top jobs at the bank. At the end of 2018, women the bank’s long-term strategic goals. On variable pay, this is prohibited under Dutch legislation for senior made up 27% of ABN AMRO senior management. Our aim is to increase that figure to at least 30% 2018 80% management1 at companies in which the state owns shares. Last year, we paid out a total of EUR 2.4 billion by 2020 – in line with the Dutch government’s own targets. We also measure ethnic diversity. Senior 2017 79% in salaries and benefits – that’s more than 45% of our managers with a non-Western background rose in 2018 2016 82% total operating costs. to 3.7%, up from 3% the previous year2. Our aim is to reach 6% by 2020. Last year, to support our target, There were, however, areas of concern. 'Senior management' we joined a new project, managed by the Dutch and 'vision & leadership' both fell. Given recent concerns at organisation Talent to the Top, to promote diversity Board level, 'senior management' is now running 18 points within senior management. below the sector average. Addressing these issues will be a priority in 2019. Specific KPIs will be included in management performance appraisals to monitor progress. Results from 2018 survey ÅÅClient focus: 96% of employees think about the effect on clients when taking decisions ÅÅSustainability: 93% of employees want to build a more sustainable bank ÅÅFollow-up: 47% of employees have seen action taken in response to the 2017 survey results 1 Senior management includes members of ABN AMRO's Executive Committee and other selected senior managers. ÅÅCollaboration: 51% of employees say they have enough 2 These figures are based on information provided voluntarily. Non-western includes all employees who originate from, or have at least one parent originating from, Turkey or countries in Africa, Latin America or Asia (excluding Japan and Indonesia; the latter because of its historic ties to the Netherlands). information on what's going on in other parts of the company 32 Our performance & outlook / Performance: employees Sustainable change Rianne Kamphuis “Our strategy gives us a very clear Chair of the Employee Council sense of direction for the bank.” There’s been a lot of change at ABN AMRO in This idea of continuous change – A big part of change is cultural – recent years. How has this affected employees? that’s difficult for employees. it’s about changing behaviour. Yes, the bank has been through a lot of change. There’s For us, it’s important that we build change into And ABN AMRO has made significant progress in this still restructuring to be done in parts of the business. the organisation, so that we plan for the long term, respect, certainly in terms of transparency. There’s also Of course, it’s not easy. Employees have to cope with and integrate change into these long-term plans. more cooperation, more feedback. We’re not there new structures and extra demands. But we’ve got a Make changes gradually, rather than going from yet – and I don’t think, from the outside, people always good relationship with management. We worked closely one reorganisation to another. That’s what we mean view the bank like this. What is important for our together on the refreshed strategy. And we made sure when we talk about sustainable change. employees, within ABN AMRO, is an environment in the strategy reflected employees’ needs. What’s good which they can give their opinions openly – one based is that this strategy now gives us a very clear sense Can you elaborate? on working together. of direction for the bank. Training is important – training and development. We’d like to see more emphasis on employability, Is there an opportunity here with Change isn’t only happening at ABN AMRO. helping employees develop new, broader skills that new management? It’s right across the financial sector. go beyond what they need for their current job. Yes – there’s an opportunity to show the outside world That’s true. All banks are confronted by the same issues. That’s what makes them more employable – either that things are changing, and improving. We also have Take digitalisation. We all need to move with the times – within the bank or if they go on to a new job outside. an opportunity to forge a close three-way relationship – with what’s happening around us, with what clients This is a big issue for the Employee Council. We encourage between the Employee Council, the Executive Board expect of us. In the financial sector, change has become employees to take advantage of the initiatives we and the Supervisory Board. We don’t always have to almost continuous. have at ABN AMRO – and, with the support of the bank, agree, but we each have our roles to play. That’s a good to take care of their own personal development. basis on which to move forward and to build the kind of bank we want – a bank that is genuinely sustainable, focused on its clients, and ready for whatever the future will bring. 33 Performance: society Supporting a more sustainable economy current bonds help young people into work – often young people In helping our clients become more sustainable, we’re also from disadvantaged backgrounds. We also have a health impact helping society as a whole combat climate change and shift bond – to help those recovering from cancer return to work As part of Mission 2030, some 800,000 to a more sustainable economic model. after treatment. Proceeds from our green bonds have helped fund increased use At the same time, we’re investing more in social enterprises of renewable energy and greater energy efficiency in homes, through our Social Impact Fund; these enterprises include Dutch homes will be upgraded to be more energy efficient. offices and other buildings. Last year, we also launched new TTC Mobile, specialising in communications technology for guidelines, along with ING and Rabobank, to encourage more developing countries, and BigMove, which promotes healthy investment in the circular economy. living. We want to expand our impact banking. Last year, for example, we teamed up with Root Capital. Here, our funding At the end of 2018, clients’ sustainable In our retail bank, Mission 2030 will help reduce carbon will help improve living standards for 4,000 small coffee farmers investments with us stood at: 13.8 billion emissions and support the Dutch government’s climate in Latin America – and make the supply chain more sustainable. objectives. By the end of 2018, 13% of our property was rated We’re also working with partners FMO and Privium to provide A for energy efficiency. That’s up from just over 10% twelve months before – and puts us on track to meet our 2030 target. funds in poorer countries – to help create jobs, support local businesses and increase access to energy. EUR We’ve also helped shift more business investment – our clients’ Community investment sustainable investments now stand at nearly EUR 14 billion, As a responsible business, we support local communities. Green bonds up from just over EUR 10 billion at the end of 2017. In private Employees volunteer through the ABN AMRO Foundation. We’ve now issued or supported 12 green bonds for banking, more of our clients are signing up for our sustainable Last year, employees volunteered on more than 5,400 separate our clients. For the green economy, that's an extra 8.5 billion investment option. occasions. The Foundation helps charities and community groups – two important areas are education and tackling loneliness and Social impact As a bank, we also want to make a positive social impact. isolation. The Foundation also works with partners, including Amsterdam Care and the Aid to Victims Fund1, which supports EUR We’ve now launched six social impact bonds, mobilising private victims of crime, accidents and disasters. funds to help solve social problems. Half of ABN AMRO’s 1 Fonds Slachtofferhulp (for more information, see slachtofferhulp.nl). 34 Our performance & outlook / Performance: society Amsterdam’s new green district Approach to tax In as far as these questions were directed to ABN AMRO itself ABN AMRO takes a responsible approach to tax. Last year, these questions have been answered. The Dutch Minister of we paid EUR 762 million in income tax. Just over 87% was paid Finance has answered further questions on 3 December 2018. in the Netherlands, an important contribution to public services. In case Dutch or foreign authorities request information on these In addition, we paid EUR 336 million in bank levies. We publish activities, ABN AMRO co-operates in these investigations as our Tax Principles online; our tax policy rejects any involvement required by law, or beyond as long as it does not potentially harm in tax evasion, tax avoidance or aggressive tax planning. In these the position of other stakeholders. cases, we respect both the spirit and the letter of the law. Responsible tax is also built directly into our product approval Anti-money laundering processes. For more information see our 2018 Annual Report. Banks have a responsibility to help protect the financial services We also have internal policies designed to ensure compliance sector. We take this responsibility very seriously. ABN AMRO Last year, we were chosen to finance a new, with other tax rules and regulations affecting the bank. These invests significant resources in combating financial crime. We work sustainable district in Amsterdam, known as policies are overseen by ABN AMRO’s risk and compliance closely with regulators, governments, other banks and the police. Bajes Kwartier. The district will be built on functions, as well as by our regulators. If clients don’t comply ABN AMRO has decided, based on existing shortcomings and the site where the city's former main prison with our policies, we can choose to end the relationship. input from the Dutch Central Bank, to accelerate its Customer used to be – it will be made up of shops, Due Diligence (CDD) programme in order to be compliant with offices, restaurants and schools. What makes Cum/ex transactions anti-money laundering and terrorist financing legislation. We’ve Bajes Kwartier different is that it will be ABN AMRO’s legal predecessor, Fortis Bank (Nederland) N.V., already carried out a review of our Corporate & Institutional climate-neutral. All energy will be generated ABN AMRO and several (former) subsidiaries were directly or Banking business; a review of our Private Banking clients is locally from renewable sources. There’ll also be indirectly involved in so-called cum/ex transactions in the past. now nearly complete. ABN AMRO has developed remediation a thermal grid, supplying hot and cold water. This has been the subject of discussions between ABN AMRO programmes to speed up remediation actions in relation to ABN AMRO was chosen because of its longand the German tax authorities for the past years. Currently, International Card Services (ICS) and Commercial Banking and term commitment to sustainability – there are no disputes between the German tax authorities and has shared these with the Dutch Central Bank and committed specifically, to energy-efficient homes and ABN AMRO relating to these transactions. Since 2010, a number to their execution. For the incremental external costs involved, offices. Bajes Kwartier will be built by a of subsidiaries associated with these transactions have been sold we’ve taken a provision in 2018 of EUR 85 million – for ICS and consortium, comprising AM, AT Capital by means of a management buy-out and the desks of ABN AMRO Commercial Banking. The amount is based on, among other items, and Cairn. that were (directly or indirectly) involved in these trading the total number of files, the time needed to review each file and strategies have been closed. That does not mean, however, the percentage that will be reviewed using external resources. that there are no legal risks remaining with regard to these transactions in particular civil and/or criminal law risks. In the Over the past year, a number of European banks have been the second half of 2018, public reports appeared on the involvement object of money laundering investigations. We recognise that, of subsidiaries of ABN AMRO or former Fortis in dividend with financial crime, we have to be vigilant. We’re constantly stripping activities and particularly in so-called cum-ex activities looking for ways to strengthen our systems and raise awareness in the past. This has raised questions in Dutch parliament. of potential risks within the bank. 35 Performance: investors Financial performance Impairments Since 2015, we’ve made cost savings We had a good year in 2018. Our return on equity – at 11.4% – Last year, we saw a significant increase in impairments to totalling around 700 million was in line with our 10-13% target. During the year, we also saw EUR 655 million. This was due to specific cases in certain a further improvement in our capital position – and announced sectors, particularly offshore business and trade & commodity an increase in our percentage dividend payout for shareholders. finance. We also had losses in domestic healthcare. To reduce EUR Net profit was down, mainly because of an increase in risk in these areas, we’ve sold loans, scaled back our exposure impairments. Our 2017 results included proceeds from the and stepped up risk monitoring. Despite increased impairments, sale of both our private banking operations in Asia and a stake we remain below the ‘through-the-cycle’ cost of risk. in US finance group Visa Inc. Overall, we’re well on track to Last year, our stock price fell by 24 % meet our 2020 targets, despite a weaker economic outlook. Capital position In 2018, we further improved our capital position. Our main (in EUR millions) 2018 2017 % change measure – CET1 – rose to 18.4%. We’re well positioned Operating income 9,093 9,290 -2% for Basel IV. For 2019, we’ve set a CET1 target range of versus a 28% drop for the European banking sector Operating expenses 5,351 5,582 -4% 17.5-18.5%. as a whole Operating result 3,742 3,708 +1% Impairment charges on Our businesses financial instruments 655 -63 ÅÅ In Retail Banking, customer experience is our key priority. Operating profit before taxation 3,086 3,771 -18% We will continue to put resources into digital and improve our Last year, our CET1 ratio – our main measure Income tax expense 762 979 -22% core products. We’ll also look to increase revenue from fees, of capital strength – rose to 18.4 % Profit for the period 2,325 2,791 -17% helping counter the effect of persistent low interest rates. For our full Income Statement, see page 50. ÅÅ In Private Banking, we’re focusing on strengthening our position in Northwest Europe. We’ve sold operations in Cost reduction Luxembourg – and bought Societe Generale’s business in We continued to reduce costs during the year. Since 2015, we’ve Belgium, doubling the size of our Belgian private banking now saved a total of nearly EUR 700 million. Our cost/income operations. ratio – a key measure of the bank’s efficiency – dropped to 58.8%. ÅÅ In Commercial Banking, we’re working closely with clients That puts us well on course to meet our 2020 target of 56-58%. to help them switch to more sustainable business models. Our focus now is to achieve the remaining savings. For 2022, We’re rationalising our products and investing in digital we want to go further – and reduce our ratio to below 55% . 1 to improve efficiency and deliver ‘hassle-free’ banking. 1 Target based on current economic outlook, including for GDP, interest rates and the housing market. 36 Our performance & outlook / Outlook Outlook ÅÅ We’re restructuring Corporate & Institutional Banking Our business is facing challenges from economic and ABN AMRO’s performance and strategy (CIB). To improve profitability, we’re reducing capital political developments, historically low interest rates, ÅÅ We do not expect our loan book to grow. After allocated to CIB; we’ll also cut costs. By 2021, pressure on profits and increased social expectations. 2020, we see growth returning, though at a modest our target is for CIB to have a return on equity In 2019, we’ll push ahead with our strategy – working 1-3% a year. of at least 10%. with clients and helping accelerate the shift to more ÅÅ Net interest income will be slightly lower in 2019, sustainable business models. given the pressure on deposit margins and Payments to investors an expected decline in CIB corporate loans. Given our strong capital position (and in line with our Economic & social conditions ÅÅ In the short term, we also expect fees to be stable; dividend policy), we propose paying shareholders an ÅÅ We expect slower growth in the Netherlands, despite these should pick up modestly as the bank’s own additional amount in 2018 – on top of the targeted 50% increased public spending. There are significant growth initiatives, new partnerships and services of sustainable profit. We’ll propose a final dividend of economic uncertainties – including lower stock begin to have an effect. EUR 0.80 a share, bringing the full-year 2018 dividend markets, the fall-out from Brexit, fears of slower ÅÅ We’ll maintain a ‘moderate’ risk profile – and continue to EUR 1.45 a share, unchanged from 2017. We expect growth in China and continued tensions over trade. our disciplined approach to both costs and pricing. continued capital generation and will be well placed to We see a modest recovery in oil prices, but interest In our businesses, we’ll continue to focus on the consider further additional payments to shareholders. rates will remain low. Netherlands and Northwest Europe. However, we will continue to take a prudent approach ÅÅ We see continued strong competition among ÅÅ We will look to maintain a strong capital position. to these additional payments, reflecting regulatory Dutch mortgage providers. House sales in the Our leverage ratio has been a constraint, but we and other developments. Netherlands are expected to decline further over expect this to ease after 2018. the next two years. House prices have been rising ÅÅ We will press ahead with our strategy. We’ll focus Share price performance strongly; we forecast a more modest +6% in 2019, on our three strategic pillars, working closely with our In 2018, European bank shares lost significant ground. however, slowing to +4% the following year (2020). 1 clients on sustainability. We’ll emphasise customer This was due to a number of factors – including low ÅÅ Social expectations will continue to increase; experience, look to develop new skills within the interest rates, political uncertainty and worries over businesses will be expected to play a role in supporting bank and work to create an open, collaborative slowing economic growth. Over the year, ABN AMRO the international sustainable development agenda; corporate culture. shares fell by 24%; by comparison, the Stoxx Banks banks in particular will face continued scrutiny ÅÅ We’ll consider new acquisitions, but these will be 600 index of European banks was down just over 28%. for their social, environmental and governance ‘bolt-on’ rather than ‘transformational’. If we do make performance. acquisitions, we will apply strict criteria, such as a minimum threshold for returns. 1 In 2018, house prices in the Netherlands rose by 9%. 37 Governance & leadership This section looks at our system of governance and decision-making. In this section: 38 Interview with our Supervisory Board Chairman 40 Governance & leadership 41 Performance evaluation 41 Changes to ABN AMRO’s Supervisory Board 41 Ownership structure & system of regulation 42 Internal policies & standards 42 Risk management 44 Executive Committee 45 Supervisory Board 38 Governance & leadership / Interview with our Supervisory Board Chairman Interview with our Supervisory Board Chairman Chairman Tom de Swaan looks back on 2018 and talks about the bank’s refreshed strategy and recent changes to the Supervisory Board. ABN AMRO has a refreshed strategy and a new purpose. What’s your view? It’s very positive for the bank. For me, one of the most important aspects is the strong focus on clients. ABN AMRO is a service company. This strategy is about serving clients – helping them make that transition to sustainability. That makes sense commercially. But there’s also a wider benefit – to society as a whole. To have this refreshed strategy and purpose – these were key achievements for 2018. Beyond that, the bank is doing very well. It’s a completely different bank than when I left here as a board member in 2006. “This strategy is about serving clients – That makes sense commercially. But there’s also a wider benefit – to society as a whole. To have helping them make that transition this refreshed strategy and purpose – these were to sustainability.” key achievements for 2018. Beyond that, the bank is doing very well. Tom de Swaan 39 How do you see the relationship between the Since your appointment last July, have you spoken Executive Committee and Supervisory Board? to a lot of employees? We need a relationship that’s built on trust and transparency. Yes, I invited employees to come and speak to me, on a By ‘we’, I mean both the Supervisory Board and the Executive confidential, one-on-one basis. This is something I would have Committee. We’re in this as a team. Our role, as the Supervisory done regardless. So far, about 130 have contacted me, which Board, is oversight. We have to be a facilitator for the Executive shows people are prepared to overcome their reluctance, pick Committee – a trusted advisor. And that’s what we are. We sit up the ‘phone and say ‘I want to talk to the Chairman’. I think down together and talk – about what’s best for ABN AMRO, they’re surprised to discover it really is one-on-one – it’s just me, and how we can continue to move the bank forward. not a panel or other people. Changes were announced in the Supervisory Board. What was behind these changes? “We have to be a facilitator for the Executive Committee The Board realised early on that we needed more banking – a trusted advisor. And that’s what we are.” experience. So, we will be nominating two new members at the Annual General Meeting; two others were prepared to What’s your sense of the working environment resign, for which I am grateful. With the new members, we will within ABN AMRO? have more direct banking experience, making the Board stronger. The bank has been through tough times. Over the past several years, it’s been split up, nationalised – it went through a process Last year, there were several anonymous letters critical of integration. And there was the financial crisis. In circumstances of management, purporting to come from inside the bank. like that, it’s unsettling – and it creates a very inward-looking Yes, I received several anonymous letters. The allegations in environment. Now, the good news is, with the refreshed the letters weren’t correct. And it was disappointing to see strategy – with the emphasis on clients – we are looking them in the press. This goes against everything we stand outwards again. for at ABN AMRO. Employees are free to come forward and they are invited to share their views, openly and honestly – without repercussions. 40 Governance & leadership / Governance & leadership Governance & leadership Like most other Dutch companies, we have a two-tier management model. The Executive Board is our statutory managing board. It’s responsible for the general course of business, including ABN AMRO’s strategy and risk profile. The Executive Board has four members: our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Risk Officer and Chief Innovation & Technology Officer. ABN AMRO’s Executive Committee consists of the members of the Executive Board and the CEOs of Retail, Private, Commercial and Corporate & Institutional Banking, plus our Chief HR, Transformation & Communications Officer. The Executive Committee ensures that ABN AMRO’s strategy and purpose are applied effectively across our businesses. Overseeing the Executive Board is ABN AMRO’s Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board is independent of management. Supervisory Board Currently, it has seven members; they have various backgrounds – in business, academia and law. The goal is for a balanced Supervisory Board in terms of gender, age, expertise and personal style. Remuneration, Selection & Risk & Capital Committee Audit Committee Nomination Committee Diversity, we believe, makes for better and more inclusive decision-making. As part of this, we want at least 30% of our Board members to be women. Currently, our Executive and Supervisory Boards do not meet this target; ABN AMRO takes its gender targets into account when searching for Executive Board suitable Board members. Our shareholders meet at least once a year. They’re responsible for appointments to the Supervisory Board, and adopting the Group Group Group Group Group Risk Asset bank’s annual accounts. For more information on our corporate Central Credit Disclosure Regulatory Committee & Liability governance, see this year’s Annual Report, available online. Committee Committee Committee Committee 41 Performance evaluation banking at Nordea, and Michiel Lap, who worked for many years When our Executive Committee was set up in March 2017, it in corporate and investment banking in London, including at both was decided that, after a year, the new management structure Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs. would be evaluated. Two external experts were commissioned to carry out the evaluation; this evaluation addressed a number Ownership structure & system of regulation of areas, including Executive Board and Executive Committee The Dutch State currently owns 56.3% of ABN AMRO. This structures, the Supervisory Board’s role, as well as the bank’s stake is held through NL Financial Investments (NLFI). NLFI leadership, purpose, strategic story and approach to culture acts independently of the Dutch government to avoid conflicts change. At the same time, the ECB was working with the Dutch of interest. There is a ‘Relationship Agreement’ in place between Central Bank to evaluate the same issues, particularly internal NLFI and ABN AMRO. NLFI has no seat on ABN AMRO’s governance and risk management, as part of its 2018 on-site Supervisory Board. It takes no part in executive decisions. inspections. These evaluations identified several focus areas, Since ABN AMRO’s IPO in 2015, the Dutch government has covering both ‘boardroom dynamics’ (ways of working together, gradually reduced its shareholding in the bank. The government’s 56% leadership style and open relationships) and ‘technical aspects’ intention is to fully re-privatise ABN AMRO. (clearly allocating tasks and responsibilities). We are currently owned by goverment addressing these areas. NLFI’s shareholding comprises 49.9% of ABN AMRO shares, Since our listing in 2015, the Dutch government plus 6.4% in depositary receipts (which are listed and traded on has sold down its shareholding; it now owns just Changes to ABN AMRO’s Supervisory Board the Euronext Amsterdam exchange). These depositary receipts over 56% of ABN AMRO. Last year, there were significant changes to our Supervisory are issued by the ABN AMRO Trust Office (Stichting Administratie­ Board. In February, Olga Zoutendijk stepped down as Chairman. kantoor AAG) – an independent structure created as a defence Steven ten Have took over temporarily before the appointment against hostile situations. in July 2018 of current Chairman Tom de Swaan. As one of the eurozone’s largest banks, we’re regulated by the In November 2018, it was announced that Steven ten Have and European Central Bank, supported by the Dutch Central Bank. Frederieke Leeflang had decided to resign from the Supervisory This level of regulation for leading banks helps ensure the overall Board at the Annual General Meeting. Two new members have stability of Europe’s financial system. been nominated: Anna Storåkers, former head of personal 42 Governance & leadership / Governance & leadership Internal policies & standards working conditions, environmental performance and purpose and with the latest corporate governance rules. ABN AMRO has built environmental, social and ethical health & safety. We have an Ethics Committee, chaired The new version puts more emphasis on transparency factors into its decision-making1. For us, this is part of by our CEO. This committee rules on conflicts and and ‘speaking up’ – we also strengthened provisions on being a responsible corporate citizen. We have a dilemmas – usually where existing policies and employee relations, responsible tax and sustainability. Sustainable Risk Policy, which covers not just our lending guidelines do not provide a clear course of action. As part and investment, but also procurement and product of our efforts to move to a low-carbon economy, we’re We also expect clients to live up to our environmental, development. To support this policy, we have detailed working with other Dutch investors within the PCAF2 to social and ethical standards; we apply the same sector-by-sector guidelines. These guidelines set out agree a methodology to measure the carbon footprint standards to our suppliers and the companies we invest minimum standards in areas like bribery and corruption, of the assets we manage. We’ve also joined the SBTI3, in. We’ve said clearly we won’t engage in activities that aimed at making science-based climate targets standard do not meet these standards. There are some activities business practice. we rule out as a matter of policy. We won’t fund tobacco companies, for example, new coal-fired power plants or Eventually, this work with PCAF and SBTI will help oil extraction from tar sands. Nor will we finance trade us manage our assets and set targets in line with in wildlife or the manufacture of controversial weapons a +2°C scenario (+2°C is the objective of the 2015 like anti-personnel mines or cluster bombs4. With clients Paris Climate Agreement). or companies that fall short of our standards, we prefer to engage, rather than exclude. We recognise that, For the most part, our standards are based on accepted very often, companies operate in difficult environments international norms, including the UN Global Compact, – so we work with management to reduce risk, the OECD’s guidelines for multinational companies and where possible. Last year, we directly engaged with the Equator Principles, which cover responsible project 24 companies around the world – in sectors such as finance. We have separate policies on money laundering, agriculture, oil & gas, transportation and mining & tax, anti-corruption and respect for international human metals. Issues addressed included deforestation, rights. We recently brought our human rights policy into pollution, bribery and corruption, labour rights and line with the UN’s ‘Protect, Respect and Remedy’ community impact. framework for business. We also require our employees to abide by ABN AMRO’s Code of Conduct; this Code Risk management contains provisions on customer service, data privacy, As a bank, risk is an inherent part of ABN AMRO’s insider dealing and managing complaints. Last year, business. Our main risks are credit, market, liquidity, we updated the Code to bring it into line with our new business and operational (non-financial) risk. 1 For more information on our overall approach to compliance issues, please see our 2018 Annual Report, available online. 2 PCAF (Platform Carbon Assets Financials) is currently backed by 14 Dutch financial companies, including ABN AMRO. 3 SBTI (Science Based Targets Initiative) is supported by the CDP, UN Global Compact, the World Resources Institute and World Wide Fund for Nature. 4 Our full Exclusion List may be found online at abnamro.nl, along with copies of our Sustainability Risk Policy and Risk Framework. 43 Non-financial risks include failing to comply with laws This year, as part of the Statement, the Board identified and regulations, risk of human and system errors, a) external factors potentially affecting ABN AMRO’s as well as environmental, social and ethical risks. business models; b) key regulatory and compliance issues that require ‘substantial efforts’ by the bank, and; To manage these risks, ABN AMRO has a detailed risk c) areas of improvement currently being addressed by management framework. This framework operates at all senior management. levels of the bank and takes into account several basic principles: a) that we should only offer products and External factors: services that are in the interests of our clients, and ÅÅ Adverse macro-economic or monetary conditions that our clients understand; b) that we should avoid (low or negative interest rates, exchange rates) concentrating too much risk in one sector, client or ÅÅ Geopolitical uncertainty (Brexit, international sanctions country; c) that we should limit our risk of unexpected on Iran and Russia, trade tensions between China Our approach to the palm oil sector currency and interest rate fluctuations, and d) that we and the US) We use palm oil every day – it’s a common ingredient in should maintain a financial buffer, so we can always meet ÅÅ Laws and regulations (including Basel IV, PSD2 and food and cosmetics. The palm oil sector, however, faces our obligations, even in times of severe economic stress. the US’ Clarifying Lawful Overseas Use of Data Act) accusations of land grabbing, human rights violations and cutting down rainforests. Within ABN AMRO, risk management starts with the Compliance & regulatory issues businesses themselves. They ‘own’ the risk, set the correct ÅÅ Customer Due Diligence, anti-money laundering, At ABN AMRO, we believe palm oil should be produced as risk appetite, and make sure proper, effective controls counter-terrorism financing and model risk sustainably as possible. In our lending policies, we explicitly are in place. The businesses are our first line of defence management. exclude land grabbing and illegal deforestation. With our to keep the bank within the boundaries of our risk appetite. financing, we encourage clients to invest responsibly – but The second line of defence are our risk management Areas of improvement: our influence is more limited: ultimately, where clients invest functions – responsible for rules and procedures and for ÅÅ Risk data and risk reporting is their choice. We still have a long way to go to eliminate abuse ensuring that the first line of defence performs as intended. ÅÅ Execution risk (particularly associated with from the palm oil sector. Audit – our independent third line of defence – evaluates recent reorganisations, IT modernisation etc.) the effectiveness of governance and control processes ÅÅ External crime threats (including cyber fraud, So far, according to the latest estimates, only 20% of the performed by the first and second lines of defence. ATM attacks, loans fraud, IT disruptions) world’s palm oil plantations are certified sustainable. Through Our Executive Board has ultimate responsibility for risk ÅÅ Ability to attract and retain qualified professionals the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO), we’re working management, monitored by the bank’s Supervisory Board. and new talent (with a focus on IT, data science with industry and NGOs to put palm oil production on a more and commercial activities) sustainable footing. Management Control Statement Every year, our Executive Board issues a Management For the full Management Control Statement, Control Statement, published in our Annual Report. see page 63 of our 2018 Annual Report. 44 Governance & leadership / Executive Committee Executive Committee From left to right: Rutger van Nouhuijs (CEO Corporate & Institutional Banking) Gert-Jan Meppelink (Chief HR, Transformation & Communications Officer) Tanja Cuppen (Chief Risk Officer) Kees van Dijkhuizen (Chief Executive Officer) Clifford Abrahams (Chief Financial Officer) Christian Bornfeld (Chief Innovation & Technology Officer) Daphne de Kluis (CEO Commercial Banking) Frans van der Horst (CEO Retail Banking) Pieter van Mierlo (CEO Private Banking) 45 Supervisory Board From left to right: Tjalling Tiemstra Frederieke Leeflang Annemieke Roobeek Tom de Swaan (Chairman) Arjen Dorland Jurgen Stegmann Steven ten Have (Vice-Chairman) For more details of the members of our Executive Committee and Supervisory Board, please refer to our Annual Report or go to abnamro.com 46 Appendix In this section, you’ll find details of our approach to reporting, the report from our auditors and our compliance with the Integrated Reporting framework. In this section: 47 Our approach to reporting 47 Structure 47 Scope & boundaries 47 Review & approval 47 Performance data 48 External assurance 48 Involvement of stakeholders 48 Value creation model 48 Value-creating topics 48 Forward-looking statements 49 Compliance with Integrated Reporting framework 50 Income statement 51 Statement of financial position 52 Non-financial indicators 53 Assurance Report from independent auditor 47 Our approach to reporting This report provides a complete overview of the bank’s financial and non-financial ÅÅ This Review describes both ABN AMRO’s value creation model, and value created management, strategy and performance. It is intended for all stakeholders, (or depleted) for each of the bank’s main stakeholder groups (clients, employees, though will be of particular interest to investors (providers of financial capital). investors and society). Risks to value creation described in this Review are assessed in accordance with ABN AMRO’s overall risk management approach (for details, see Structure the Risk, Funding & Capital section of the bank’s 2018 Annual Report). Capital metrics This Annual Review is structured around five main sections: and some risk exposures are reported under the Basel III (CRD IV/CRR) framework. ÅÅ Our bank (main businesses, products & services, business and value creation models) ÅÅ The world around us (operating environment, key issues and trends) Review & approval ÅÅ Our strategy (strategic pillars, value-creating topics, contribution Contents of this Review are based on extensive internal reporting from ABN AMRO to United Nations Sustainable Development Goals) business and operating units. Non-financial data is collected centrally; this includes ÅÅ Our performance & outlook (financial and non-financial performance by stakeholder group) data relating to community investment, customer satisfaction & loyalty, environmental ÅÅ Our governance & leadership (system of governance, bank’s leadership, performance etc. internal policies, ownership and risk management). Production of this Review is overseen by a dedicated project team. Its members Central to this Review is the principle of value creation. Its purpose is to describe are drawn from ABN AMRO’s Strategy, Finance, Communications, Sustainability how, as a provider of financial services, employer and investor, we create value over and Investor Relations teams. Content is reviewed by the bank’s Group Disclosure the short, medium and long term for our stakeholders and society. Committee, and approved by the Executive Board before publication. This Review includes information drawn from other ABN AMRO publications, Performance data notably the bank’s Annual Report. The Review is not intended as a substitute ÅÅ For this Review, all financial data is taken directly from ABN AMRO’s Annual Report. for these other publications. Figures are presented generally in euros (EUR), ABN AMRO’s reporting currency. ÅÅ Any annual averages are based on month-end figures (management does not believe Scope & boundaries that using daily averages would make any material difference to these figures). ÅÅ Unless otherwise stated, this Review covers ABN AMRO Group N.V., including ÅÅ Certain figures in this Review may not add due to rounding. For the most part, all businesses and consolidated entities worldwide. Annual data relates to the figures are rounded to the nearest million. Some percentages are calculated using bank’s financial year, which runs from January to December. Comparative figures rounded figures. Certain metrics used have inherent limitations (for example, are included, where appropriate. estimated data vs. reported data. Where applicable, this is mentioned in the text). ÅÅ Only content that is material to the bank’s strategy, performance, reputation or ability to create value has been included in this Review. Content is based on both internal and external sources. Where external sources are used, an explanation is provided in the text. 48 Appendix / Our approach to reporting For more details on ABN AMRO’s financial position and performance, please refer ÅÅ Social (relationships with communities, stakeholders and other networks necessary to the bank’s Annual Report, available online. The Annual Report also provides to carry on business operations and maintain the bank’s long-term licence to operate) further explanations on methodologies and definitions of financial concepts used. ÅÅ Natural (renewable and non-renewable environmental resources, including air, water, land, minerals, forests, eco-systems and biodiversity etc.). External assurance EY provided external assurance for this Review; its report may be found on pages 53-54. Value-creating topics ABN AMRO believes external assurance strengthens the credibility of its reporting, We carried our an assessment this year of our operating environment (see page 19). and helps improve the bank’s own reporting systems and processes. EY provides For this assessment, we made changes to our previous methodology. This was ‘limited assurance’1 for all content, data and graphics in this Review. EY also provides mainly to improve the process and ensure more accurate, reliable results. As part ‘reasonable assurance’ for ABN AMRO’s value-creating topics process (see Valueof these changes, we reclassified certain topics, brought in new topics and agreed creating topics, page 19). detailed definitions. Comparing results with our previous assessment in 2016, three topics fell significantly in the ranking: prevention of corruption, fraud and cyber crime Involvement of stakeholders (reclassified as ‘secure banking’); clear & appropriate advice; and privacy, use of client ABN AMRO regularly consults stakeholders (clients, employees, investors and society). data (reclassified as ‘client data protection’). Customer experience again featured Stakeholder views are incorporated into the company’s decisions, strategy and as the most important topic (reclassified from ‘customer issue ownership’). Among reporting. Through our materiality process, we identify the most important issues for the new topics included in our value-creating topics were: responsible investment & our stakeholders. These issues may be social, economic, financial or environmental in financing, circular economy, digitalisation and talent attraction. nature. For more information on our approach to stakeholder engagement, see page 13. For more information, see our Value-Creating Topics Report, available online. This report Value creation model provides all relevant definitions, as well as details of scope & boundaries, methodology Our value creation model is based on the International Integrated Reporting framework . 2 used etc. This framework is built around ‘capitals’ – these capitals are stocks of value that may be either increased or decreased through a company’s business activities or outputs. Forward-looking statements For our value creation model, we have modified these capitals in line with ABN AMRO’s This Integrated Annual Review contains certain material that may be construed as specific business, strategy and purpose: ‘forward-looking statements’. These statements are not historical facts, and represent ÅÅ Financial (pool of funds available to a company and obtained through financing, ABN AMRO’s beliefs regarding future events, many of which are inherently uncertain such as debt, equity, or generated through operations and investments) and beyond the bank’s control. These statements apply only at the document’s ÅÅ Manufactured (suppliers and external resources required to support business activities) publication date. ABN AMRO does not intend to publicly update or revise these ÅÅ Human & intellectual (organisational knowledge, systems, processes, procedures, forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this other intellectual property, employees’ skills, competencies and experience, including report, and does not assume any responsibility to do so. The reader should, however, their ability to understand and implement the company’s strategy, and willingness take into account any further disclosures of a forward-looking nature that ABN AMRO and commitment to innovate) may make in its interim reports. 1 In ‘limited assurance’, the auditor’s conclusion takes the form of a negative statement: ‘nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the report is not fairly stated’. In ‘reasonable assurance’, the conclusion is expressed positively: ‘in our opinion, this report is, in all material respects, fairly stated’. 2 For further information on the International Integrated Reporting framework, see integratedreporting.org (ABN AMRO’s value creation model may be found on pages 14-15). 49 Compliance with Integrated Reporting framework The International Integrated Reporting framework comprises guiding principles and content elements. Details of our compliance with this framework are set out below: Guiding principles Our approach Reference Content elements Reference Strategic focus This Review focuses on value creation; strategy and Our strategy (pages 21-24), setting out our strategic Organisational ÅÅ Our bank (pages 6-7) & orientation performance sections relate directly to our ability to create pillars and linked to the bank’s value-creating topics. overview and ÅÅ The world around us (pages 16-20) value for stakeholders and society. external environment Connectivity This Review is built around clear connections between Opportunities & risks (page 20), showing connection Governance ÅÅ Our governance & leadership of information the bank’s operating environment, its value-creating topics, between our value-creating topics and strategic pillars. (pages 37-45) opportunities and risks associated with these topics, strategy Business model ÅÅ Our value creation model and performance. (pages 14-15) Stakeholder In this Review, we define our main stakeholder groups; Creating value for our stakeholders (pages 12-13), Risks & opportunities ÅÅ Opportunities & risks (page 20) relationships we also address the relationship between the bank and its explaining value creation process, stakeholder stakeholders to better understand our business environment. expectations and methods of engagement. Strategy & resource ÅÅ Our strategy (pages 21-26) allocation Materiality This Review focuses on areas that have the most impact on Value-creating topics (page 19), describing process our business, performance, reputation and stakeholders etc. for defining most important economic, social, Performance ÅÅ Our performance & outlook and where we believe we can create most value (our valuegovernance and environmental topics for the bank. (pages 27-36) creating topics). Outlook ÅÅ Outlook (page 36) Conciseness We applied a materiality principle to this Review to ensure About this report (page 4); Our approach to reporting focused content and provide sufficient information to understand (pages 47-48), explaining application of materiality Basis of preparation ÅÅ Our approach to Reporting our business and performance. principle to content. (page 47) Reliability & We ensure this through an internal review process and external Our approach to reporting (pages 47-48), setting out completeness assurance; this strengthens credibility in our reporting and review & approval and external assurance process ensures proper balance between positive and negative issues. (for Assurance Report, see pages 53-54). Consistency & This is our second successive integrated report, using the Our approach to reporting (pages 47-48), defining comparability IIRC framework; this ensures continuity of reporting and direct scope, boundaries and methodologies. Comparative comparability with other companies using the same framework. performance data for previous reporting period (2017) included where appropriate. According to the IIRC definition, the primary purpose of an integrated report is to explain to providers of financial capital how an organisation creates value over time for all stakeholders including employees, clients, suppliers, business partners, local communities, legislators, regulators and policymakers. The IR framework takes a principles-based approach; it defines information that should be included in an integrated report to enable stakeholders to assess a company’s ability to create value. The framework does not set benchmarks for strategy or performance levels. All page numbers in the table refer to the present Review. 50 Appendix / Income statement Income statement (in millions) Note 2018 2017 Income Interest income from financial instruments measured at amortised costs and fair value through other comprehensive income 10,597 10,421 Interest income from financial instruments measured at fair value through profit or loss 2,048 2,081 Interest expense 6,052 6,045 Net interest income 4 6,593 6,456 Fee and commission income 3,169 3,138 Fee and commission expense 1,470 1,391 Net fee and commission income 5 1,699 1,747 Net trading income 6 173 287 Share of result in equity accounted investments 43 54 Other operating income 7 584 745 Operating income 9,093 9,290 Expenses Personnel expenses 8 2,441 2,590 General and administrative expenses 9 2,737 2,746 Depreciation and amortisation of tangible and intangible assets 23 173 245 Operating expenses 5,351 5,582 Impairment charges on financial instruments 655 -63 Total expenses 6,006 5,519 Operating profit/(loss) before taxation 3,086 3,771 Income tax expense 10 762 979 Profit/(loss) for the period 2,325 2,791 Attributable to: Owners of the parent company 2,207 2,721 Holders of AT1 capital securities 79 53 Other non-controlling interests 39 18 Earnings per share (in euros) Basic earnings per ordinary share1 11 2.35 2.89 1 Earnings per share consist of profit for the period excluding coupons attributable to AT1 capital securities and results attributable to other non-controlling interests divided by the average outstanding and paid-up ordinary shares. 51 Statement of financial position Consolidated statement of financial position (in millions) Note 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 (in millions) Note 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Assets Liabilities Cash and balances at central banks 12 34,371 29,783 Financial liabilities held for trading 13 253 1,082 Financial assets held for trading 13 495 1,600 Derivatives 14 7,159 8,367 Derivatives 14 6,191 9,825 Securities financing 17 7,407 11,412 Financial investments 16 42,184 40,964 Due to banks 26 13,437 16,462 Securities financing 17 12,375 15,686 Current accounts 27 84,192 83,627 Loans and advances banks 19 8,124 10,665 Demand deposits 27 124,020 125,995 Residential mortgages 20 150,784 152,691 Time deposits 27 27,101 26,536 Consumer loans 20 11,945 12,122 Other due to customers 27 810 541 Corporate loans at amortised cost 20 100,408 101,118 Issued debt 28 80,784 76,612 Corporate loans at fair value through P&L 20 783 Subordinated liabilities 28 9,805 9,720 Other loans and advances customers 20 6,966 8,975 Provisions 29 1,204 1,529 Equity accounted investments 22 522 714 Liabilities held for sale 24 41 4,843 Property and equipment 23 1,506 1,458 Tax liabilities 30 36 110 Goodwill and other intangible assets 23 164 184 Other liabilities 31 3,686 5,006 Assets held for sale 24 56 3,165 Total liabilities 359,935 371,841 Tax assets 10 516 431 Equity Other assets 25 3,904 3,790 Share capital 940 940 Share premium 12,970 12,970 Other reserves (incl. retained earnings/profit for the period) 6,346 5,724 Accumulated other comprehensive income -906 -331 Equity attributable to owners of the parent company 19,349 19,303 AT1 capital securities 2,008 2,007 Equity attributable to other non-controlling interests 2 20 Total equity 32 21,360 21,330 Total assets 381,295 393,171 Total liabilities and equity 381,295 393,171 Committed credit facilities 34 61,166 55,295 Guarantees and other commitments 34 15,241 16,165 52 Appendix / Non-financial indicators Non-financial indicators KPIs Definitions 2018 2017 KPIs Definitions 2018 2017 % availability of Availability of internet banking and mobile banking during 99.5% 99.7% Banking Confidence Degree of confidence in own bank. Scale 1-5. Source: Trust 3.3 3.2 digital services peak hours. Peak hours are from early in the morning to after Monitor monitor, Dutch Banking Association. Published November 2018. midnight for all services. Sustainable client Sustainable client assets are assets that ABN AMRO invests 13.8 10.1 Net Promoter Score This metric shows the extent to which clients would assets (in billions) for its clients in investment funds, products and securities that recommend ABN AMRO to others. Scale 1-10; clients are explicitly base their investment approach and decisions on regarded as ‘promoters’ (score of 9 or 10), as ‘passively satisfied’ sustainability criteria. These investments factor in the social (score of 7 or 8) or as ‘detractors’ (score of 1-6). NPS is and environmental effects of investments. Scope includes calculated by subtracting the percentage of ‘detractors’ from all countries where Private Banking is active. Selection of the percentage of ‘promoters’. The score is expressed as sustainable assets is based on criteria developed by ABN AMRO an absolute number between -100 and +100. and other external criteria; assets include both listed and non-listed securities. Retail Banking Quarterly survey carried out by Kantar TNS. Based on -9 -9 research online and by telephone. Sample size: 9,227 retail Employee engagement Employee engagement relates to the level of enthusiasm and clients. dedication employees feels toward their job. Source: annual survey by Willis Towers Watson. Commercial Banking Quarterly survey carried out by Ipsos. Based on research -2 -6 online and by telephone. Sample size: 1,532 commercial Group Total number of respondents: 18,510 80% 79% banking clients. Includes results from ABF Lease (separate study). Retail Banking Total number of respondents: 4,531 80% 81% Private Banking Score is an average of Private Banking International (PBI) -1 12 Commercial Banking Total number of respondents: 2,613 77% 77% (consolidated) and Private Banking Netherlands (PBNL) scores, weighted by operating income. Private Banking Total number of respondents: 2,758 75% 72% for PBNL, yearly survey carried out by Kantar TNS. Based on telephone interviews. Sample size: 3,234. Corporate & Total number of respondents: 2,290 78% 78% for PBI, yearly survey carried out by Scorpio. Based on Institutional Banking customer survey. Sample size: 732. Gender diversity Measured as the percentage of female employees 28% 25% Corporate & Quarterly survey carried out by Ipsos. Based on research 45 32 at the top at grades 14+ on Hay salary scale. Institutional Banking online, by telephone and face-to-face conversations. Sample size: 377 CIB clients. Includes results from ABN AMRO Gender diversity Measured as the percentage of female employees 27% 28% Clearing (separate study). at the sub-top at grades 12 and 13 on Hay salary scale. Dow Jones Published by Robeco, the DJSI tracks the performance Top 5% Top 5% Gender diversity total All gender diversity figures in this table are measured as 44% 46% Sustainability Index of the world’s leading companies in terms of economic, the percentage of female employees in the Netherlands. (DJSI) ranking1 environmental and social criteria. For more information, see sustainability-indices.com. 1 Please note that, under the DJSI, scores are not directly comparable because of regular recalibration and changes to methodology. In 2018, ABN AMRO scored 86 points, compared with 91 points the previous year (in both 2018 and 2017, we were ranked in the 98th percentile). 53 Assurance Report from independent auditor Assurance report of the independent auditor Limitations to the scope of our review and our audit The Integrated Annual Review includes prospective information such as ambitions, strategy, plans, expectations and To: the executive board and supervisory board of ABN AMRO Group N.V. estimates and risk assessments. Inherent to prospective information, the actual future results are uncertain. We do not provide any assurance on the assumptions and achievability of prospective information in the Integrated Annual Our conclusions Review. We have reviewed the Integrated Annual Review for the year 2018 of ABN AMRO Group N.V. based in Amsterdam (hereinafter: the Integrated Annual Review). The Integrated Annual Review describes the themes that are central to The references to external sources or websites in the Integrated Annual Review are not part of the Integrated ABN AMRO Group N.V.’s strategy and value creation. The Integrated Annual Review includes information derived Annual Review as reviewed by us. The baseline figures as mentioned in footnote two on page 24 are also not part of from other reports published by ABN AMRO Group N.V. as described on page 4 of the Integrated Annual Review. the scope of our assurance engagement. We therefore do not provide assurance on this information. Furthermore we have audited the paragraph “Value-creating topics” on page 19 of the Integrated Annual Review. Responsibilities of the executive board and the supervisory board for the Integrated Annual Review A review is aimed at obtaining a limited level of assurance. An audit is aimed at obtaining a reasonable level of The executive board is responsible for the preparation of the Integrated Annual Review, including the paragraph assurance. An overview of our main procedures performed is included in the annex to this assurance report. “Value-creating topics”, in accordance with the reporting criteria as included in the section Reporting criteria, including the identification of stakeholders and the definition of material matters. The choices made by the Based on our procedures performed nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Integrated executive board regarding the scope of the Integrated Annual Review and the reporting policy are summarized in Annual Review is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the International Integrated Reporting the chapter “Our approach to reporting” of the Integrated Annual Review. Framework (hereinafter: the International <IR> Framework) of the International Integrated Reporting Council (hereinafter: the IIRC) and the supplemental reporting criteria applied as disclosed in the chapter “Our approach to The executive board is also responsible for such internal control as the executive board determines is necessary to reporting” of the Integrated Annual Review. enable the preparation of the Integrated Annual Review, including the paragraph “Value-creating topics”, that is free from material misstatement, whether due to errors or fraud. In our opinion the paragraph “Value-creating topics” is prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria as disclosed on page 19 and 48 of the Integrated Annual Review. The supervisory board is responsible for overseeing the reporting process of ABN AMRO Group N.V. Basis for our conclusions Our responsibilities We have performed our review of the Integrated Annual Review and our audit of the paragraph “Value-creating Our responsibility is to plan and perform the assurance engagement in a manner that allows us to obtain sufficient topics” in accordance with Dutch law, including Dutch Standard 3810N, “Assurance-opdrachten inzake and appropriate assurance evidence for our conclusions. maatschappelijke verslagen” (Assurance engagements relating to sustainability reports), which is a specified Dutch Standard that is based on the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000, “Assurance Our procedures performed to obtain a limited level of assurance on the Integrated Annual Review are aimed to Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information”. Our responsibilities under this determine the plausibility of information and vary in nature and timing from, and are less in extent, than for a standard are further described in the section “Our responsibilities” of our report. reasonable assurance engagement. The level of assurance obtained in a review is therefore substantially less than the assurance obtained in an audit. Our audit on the paragraph “Value-creating topics” has been performed with a We are independent of ABN AMRO Group N.V. in accordance with the “Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van high, but not absolute, level of assurance, which means we may not have detected all material errors and fraud. accountants bij assurance-opdrachten” (ViO, Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, a regulation with respect to independence) and other relevant independence regulations in the Netherlands. This includes that we do not We apply the “Nadere voorschriften kwaliteitssystemen” (NVKS, Regulations for Quality management systems) and perform any activities that could result in a conflict of interest with our independent assurance engagement. accordingly maintain a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures Furthermore, we have complied with the “Verordening gedragsen beroepsregels accountants” (VGBA, Dutch Code regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and other relevant legal and regulatory of Ethics). requirements. A further description of our responsibilities is included in the annex to this assurance report. We believe that the assurance evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusions. Amsterdam, 12 March 2019 Reporting criteria The Integrated Annual Review, including the paragraph “Value-creating topics”, needs to be read and understood Ernst & Young Accountants LLP together with the reporting criteria. ABN AMRO Group N.V. is solely responsible for selecting and applying these reporting criteria, taking into account applicable law and regulations related to reporting. signed by J. Niewold The reporting criteria used for the preparation of the Integrated Annual Review are the International <IR> Framework of the IIRC and the supplemental reporting criteria applied as disclosed in the chapter “Our approach to reporting” of the Integrated Annual Review. The reporting criteria used for the chapter paragraph “Value-creating topics” are disclosed on page 19 and 48 of the Integrated Annual Review. 2 54 Appendix / Assurance Report from independent auditor Annex to the assurance report of the independent auditor • Interviewing management and relevant staff opinion. The risk that the paragraph We have exercised professional judgement and have maintained professional skepticism throughout responsible for the sustainability strategy, “Value-creating topics” is misleading or our review and our audit, in accordance with the Dutch assurance standards, ethical requirements and policy and results unbalanced, or the risk of not detecting a material independence requirements. • Interviewing relevant staff responsible for misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than providing the information for, carrying out for one resulting from errors. Fraud may involve Our review and our audit included amongst others: internal control procedures on, and collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, • Performing an analysis of the external environment and obtaining an understanding of relevant social themes consolidating the data in the Integrated Annual misrepresentations, or the override of internal and issues in the sector, the characteristics of the company and the themes that are most relevant to Review control. achieving the company’s strategy and value creation • Obtaining assurance information that the These further audit procedures consisted amongst • Evaluating the appropriateness of the reporting criteria used, their consistent application and related Integrated Annual Review reconciles with others of: disclosures in the Integrated Annual Review and the paragraph “Value-creating topics”. This includes the underlying records of the company • Interviewing relevant staff responsible for evaluation of the results of the stakeholders’ dialogue and the reasonableness of estimates made by the • Reviewing, on a limited test basis, relevant providing the information and carrying out executive board internal and external documentation internal control procedures on the data in the • Obtaining an understanding of the value creation model of ABN AMRO Group N.V. • Performing an analytical review of the data and paragraph “Value-creating topics” • Evaluating the overall presentation, structure and content of the Integrated Annual Review and the paragraph trends in the information submitted for • Obtaining assurance information that the “Value-creating topics” consolidation at corporate level paragraph “Value-creating topics” reconciles • Considering whether the Integrated Annual Review as a whole, including the disclosures, reflects the purpose with underlying records of the company of the reporting criteria used • Evaluating relevant internal and external documentation, on a test basis, to determine For the financial information included in the Integrated Annual Review, the procedures consisted of: the reliability of the paragraph “Value-creating • Reconciling the consolidated statement of financial position and consolidated income statement on pages 50 topics” and 51 of the Integrated Annual Review with the full set of audited consolidated financial statements of ABN • Performing an analytical review of the data and AMRO Group N.V. for the year ended 31 December 2018 as included in the separately published Annual trends Report 2018 of ABN AMRO Group N.V. (hereinafter: the financial statements) • Reconciling the financial information included in other sections of the Integrated Annual Review with the We communicate with the supervisory board regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the financial statements, or with information underlying the financial statements in case the reconciliation cannot review and the audit and significant findings that we identify during our review and our audit. We also communicate be made directly any significant findings in internal control that we identify during our audit. Our review of the Integrated Annual Review included Our audit of the paragraph “Value-creating topics” amongst others: included amongst others: • Obtaining an understanding of the reporting • Obtaining an understanding of the systems and processes for the Integrated Annual Review, processes for collecting and reporting the data in including obtaining a general understanding of the paragraph “Value-creating topics”, including internal control relevant to our review obtaining an understanding of internal control • Obtaining an understanding of the procedures relevant to our audit, but not for the purpose of performed by the external subject matter experts expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the of ABN AMRO Group N.V. company’s internal control • Identifying areas of the Integrated Annual Review • Evaluating the procedures performed by the with a higher risk of misleading or unbalanced external subject matter expert of information or material misstatements, whether ABN AMRO Group N.V. due to fraud or error. Designing and performing • Identifying and assessing the risks that the further assurance procedures aimed at determining paragraph “Value-creating topics” is misleading or the plausibility of the Integrated Annual Review unbalanced, or contains material misstatements, responsive to this risk analysis. whether due to fraud or errors. Designing and These further review procedures consisted performing further audit procedures responsive to amongst others of: those risks, and obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our Enquiries & contact details Acknowledgements We welcome feedback on our Review. Coordination & project planning Please send any comments or suggestions to ABN AMRO (Finance, Investor Relations, Brand, Marketing & Communications, branding.&.communications@nl.abnamro.com. Strategy & Sustainability departments) For further enquiries, our postal address is: Photography P.O. Box 283 Peter Boer, Reinier Gerritsen, Olivier Middendorp, Jos van de Tempel, Davien Hulsman 1000 EA Amsterdam The Netherlands Design & layout DartGroup (Amsterdam) We’re also present online at: abnamro.com Printing & production abnamro.nl Altavia Sumis (Amstelveen) Our Annual Report may be found at: Copywriting & editing abnamro.com/annualreport Koan Group Limited (London) abnamro.com/ir Please note that information on our websites is not part of this Review, unless expressly stated otherwise. abnamro.com ABN 0086 Integrated Annual Review 2018
