1/21/2019 Communication on Progress (COP) January 2019 Green Touches Phone: +971 4 3880355 Mobile: +971 501611832 The Sustainable City, Sustainable Plaza, Block E2, 1st Floor, Office 103. PO Box 454906 Dubai UAE. services@greentouches-uae.com CONTENTS PAGE 1. Statement of continued support by Chief Executive Officer (CEO). 2. Description of Actions: a. Human Rights b. Labour c. Environment d. Anti-corruption 3. Measurements of Outcomes: a. Demographics of management and employees b. Age distribution c. Rate of occupational diseases, injuries and absenteeism d. Percentage of water saving and recycled materials. www.greentouches-uae.com 1 1. Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO). To our Stakeholders & Members of the UNGC Platform: I, Adrienne Doolan, CEO and owner of Green Touches continue to pledge support for the United Nations Global Compact 10 Universal Principals. This is our first Communication on Progress and we continue to not only pledge support to but ensure that the 10 Principals continue to permeate all aspects of our business and remain the very foundation upon which this business has been built. From the founding of the company in 2015 we have aligned our business strategy and operations with the 10 Principals and strongly support and act upon them along with supporting the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and working with Sustainable referral partnerships and fellow UNGC members. We are proud to share our first Communication on Progress (COP) with our stakeholders to enable them to see that by choosing Green Touches as their services provider, they are supporting the 10 Universal Principals and our ongoing commitment to uphold the ethical values of our company towards creating a better future for all when it pertains to labour, environment, human rights and anti-corruption. Following the 10 Universal Principals is our day-to-day process. Ms. Adrienne Doolan CEO Green Touches Dubai, United Arab Emirates www.greentouches-uae.com 2 1. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS a. Human Rights: As an ecological cleaning services company our task is to provide cleaning staff to our clients for commercial and residential projects. By the mere fact that our company is run on the 10 Universal Principals our clients are also chosen to be in alignment with our company values so we ensure that our staff will work within a safe and pleasant environment. Not only do we respect them, but we try to source and work with companies who align themselves with our beliefs and ethos, thereby ensuring across the board attention is paid to the 10 Universal Principals. We will never discriminate against creed, colour, age or sexual orientation. Having and choosing clients whose values are aligned with our own, means that our staff can be confident that they will never find themselves exposed to any abuse or dangers. Shouting at staff members is strictly forbidden on all sites. All staff members are made aware of all their rights and informed about all documents they will sign to be part of our team. b. Labour: As a sustainable and ecological services provider in Dubai, we strive to continuously obtain new projects which in turn provide necessary jobs for the immigrant population who are seeking employment away from their home countries, which are often strife ridden areas or areas of poverty or little or no employment opportunities. We do not use recruitment agencies to recruit staff members as many of these companies exploit the vulnerabilities of those seeking employment in the United Arab Emirates and tend to extort large sums of cash for an ‘entry visa’. We never exploit the ‘visit visa’ status of an employee and prior to their visit visa expiring, we supply a permanent visa with us with includes all benefits i.e. fair salary, health insurance and accommodation etc. We pay attention to fair payment and pay above the market rate to ensure sustainability for all. We are committed to be disrupters within our industry to make changes for cleaning staff members to provide better salaries and rights and to educate the market as to the importance of and the necessity of cleaning, and therefore this job should be respected, and salaries and working conditions should be a reflection of this. www.greentouches-uae.com 3 We provide a toxic free cleaning service to our clients so we can be sure that our staff will also work in a healthy environment. Attention is paid to all aspects of their health and safety. Each staff member has health insurance and safety at work is guaranteed as they are not expected to involve themselves in any hazardous work. We ensure their safety upon transportation daily. The transportation van is well maintained, and all are wearing and advised as to the importance of a safety belt. Our staff are highly trained and given every opportunity to grow into new roles within the company. c. Environment: Our whole working process and day to day operations encompasses the protection of our environment and our fragile planet and thereby supporting the health of our staff and clients alike. We carry out sustainable green cleaning, provide the market with sustainable clean technology solutions by means of our Aqueous Ozone (O3) machines, producing a most powerful generalpurpose cleaner. We achieve zero waste and zero pollution to ground water. Using the Aqueous Ozone clean technology, we have no risk of accidents or any HAZMAT restrictions. We also provide green consultancy to advise our stakeholders on how to create a healthy and environmentally responsible space by being energy efficient, use of recycled paper or paper from FS forests, responsible sourcing of products i.e. Fairtrade, recycling of materials etc. We ensure that our operations lead to minimal effect on our environment. d. Anti-Corruption: We understand the businesses can play a substantial role in ridding the business world of anticorruption. Our business is carried out in a thoroughly ethical manner and our clients we deal with follow the same line. We actively seek ethical companies to work with. This ensures a smooth operation and enables us to adhere strictly to our values. We monitor our business partners, suppliers and clients to make sure that we work with the most above-board stakeholders and thereby eliminate the risk of corruption. We choose to work with companies who are transparent and operate with integrity and accountability. www.greentouches-uae.com 4 2. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES We are working towards making changes, continuous improvement and fact gathering. One of the many goals of our company is to achieve diversity amongst employees and to create ‘the United Nations rainbow of a cleaning company’. Among our 40 staff members we are 11 different nationalities and building on this. a. Demographics of management and employees all inclusive female 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 PHILIPINO CAMEROON UGANDA KENYA IRISH FEMALE a.1. Demographics of management and employees all inclusive – male 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 NE IN DI LA KE LEON IP IN CA EG AN PA A NK NY ES M YP T DS L A A E ER SR SI PH OO NE I ER ILL N TH RA ER L MALE www.greentouches-uae.com 5 b. Age distribution management & employees Distribution By Age 3% 8% 48% 42.00% Less than 30 From 30 to 40 From 40 to 50 Older than 50 c. Rate of occupational diseases, injuries and absenteeism Occupational diseases in 2018 0% Injuries in 2018 0% Absenteeism in 2018 ±3% d. Percentage of water saving & recycled materials – environmental impact: Environmental Impact Using Sustainable Green Solutions Saved 65,797 ltr/yr of concentrated toxic chemical entering ground water Water Saving through our Saved 8,356,219 ltr/yr Sustainable cleaning programme Recycled Materials 5,811 kg Packaging waste containers saved 16,450 containers www.greentouches-uae.com 6
