2 0 1 8 C O R P O R AT E S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT ❚ DISCLOSURES ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY CONTENTS Company Overview.............................................................................................................4 Sustainability in ABM Operations...............................................................................5 ABM in the Community .................................................................................................33 COMPANY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY C O R P O R AT E S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 | 2 ❚ DISCLOSURES ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY ❚ Ensuring Stakeholder Trust 102-14 Statement from Senior Decision-Maker ABM’s strategy has evolved over the years to better support the evolution of environmental, social and governance growing requirements. Recently, we have established the three pillars of our sustainability strategy: ❚ ABM’s Sustainability Journey This is a special year for ABM as it marks 110 years since our founder, Morris Rosenberg, started this amazing company on the streets of San Francisco with nothing more than a mop and bucket. Today we are one of the largest facilities services companies in the United States with approximately 140,000 team members. As a company with more than 100 years of experience, we understand the need to implement sustainable business practices that provide value and longevity for the business, our shareholders, our clients and our team members. This ethos is core to our success and is articulated within our purpose as a company—to take care of the people, places and spaces that are important to you. We are not alone in this thought process. The Business Roundtable, comprised of the CEOs of 193 of the largest U.S. companies, issued a new statement on the “purpose” of a • Doing business in a responsible way – Ensuring ethical business practices are critical to corporation. The new statement emphasizes delivering value to shareholders, customers, sustainability and creating trust with our stakeholders. investing in team members, protecting the environment, dealing fairly and ethically with • Improving our value chain continuously – Focusing on partnering with our clients on their suppliers, and supporting communities through sustainable practices. sustainability’s strategies and within our own value chain is at the heart of environmental Like many of these companies, ABM is in a unique position to impact communities where sustainability. we work and live. I am excited to share with you some the sustainability progress we have • Impacting the ecosystem – Bringing to market services and offerings that have a made in 2018. sustainable or social impact can help positively evolve the entire landscape. ❚ Our Progress These pillars define our anchor points and, under this focus, we will seek to grow our program to ensure we are meeting our stakeholders’ expectations. Our entire company is Related to environmental aspects, we continued to reduce our carbon footprint and, I am focused on strengthening our sustainability initiatives at our client’s facilities, growing our excited to say, we achieved our GHG reduction target to decrease our metric tons of CO2e energy savings and renewable energy offerings, measuring our sustainability performance per FTE by 15%. ABM contributed to the environmental performance of our clients by in effort to track our progress, and implementing proper business policies. expanding our sustainable portfolio of services, especially around our GreenCare cleaning program, and increased the installation of Electric Vehicle charging stations by 20%. I want to thank you for taking the time to read our Corporate Sustainability Report. We will Through ABMCares and our affiliated philanthropy programs, we donated more than $2 continue to strengthen our sustainability efforts and make sure we embed sustainability million to charities in FY 2018, and our team members volunteer hours grew by 45%. I am criteria into our decision-making processes. I am proud of what we have achieved so far very proud of our people who committed their time and resources to give back to their and ABM is committed to sustainability as a core business requirement. communities. Scott Salmirs President & CEO, ABM C O R P O R AT E S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 | 3 ❚ DISCLOSURES ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY DISCLOSURES Segment Descriptions 102-1 Name of the Organization Aviation Aviation includes services supporting airlines and airports ranging from parking and janitorial to passenger assistance, catering, air cabin maintenance, and transportation. ABM Industries Incorporated B&I Business & Industry, our largest segment, encompasses janitorial, facilities engineering, and parking services for commercial real estate properties, and sports and entertainment venues. 102-2 Activities, Brands, Products and Services Education Education provides custodial, landscaping and grounds, facilities engineering, and parking services for public school districts, private schools, colleges and universities. Technology & Technology & Manufacturing combines our Industrial & Manufacturing (“I&M”) business, which Manufacturing was previously included in our B&I segment, with our High Tech industry group. Services include janitorial, facilities engineering, and parking services for clients in these industries. ABM is a leading provider of integrated facility solutions that enable our clients Technical Technical Solutions provides specialized mechanical and electrical services. These services to deliver exceptional facilities experiences. We serve urban, suburban, and Solutions can also be leveraged for cross-selling across all of our industry groups, both domestically and rural areas and properties of all sizes—from schools and commercial buildings internationally. to airports, data centers, hospitals, and manufacturing plants. 2017 began with the completion of our organizational realignment (2020 Vision – Phase 1), which established five industry groups – Aviation, Business & Business & Industry (B&I) Industry, Education, High Tech -and a Technical Solutions group spanning the ABM.com/Banking-Financial five industry groups. ABM.com/Commercial-Building-Maintenance ABM.com/Sports-Entertainment Those groups evolved into the following segments (see chart below). Through ABM.com/Retail them, we offer our full complement of solutions on a standalone basis or in combination with each other or with specialized mechanical and electrical ABM.com/Biopharma technical services. Following is a general description of the services we provide. Aviation Complete information is provided in the links below: ABM.com/Aviation Education ABM.com/Education Technical & Manufacturing (T&M) ABM.com/Industrial-Manufacturing ABM.com/Technology Technical Solutions C O R P O R AT E S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 | 4 ❚ DISCLOSURES ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM SERVICES Some of the key value-adds that ABM GreenCare® offers to clients include: • Green cleaning programs with Green Seal certified or environmentally We’ve built our strong reputation in part by continually striving to improve upon preferable products and certified equipment that improves indoor our client service offerings through the ABM GreenCare® program. As part of the environmental quality for building occupants. We also provide recycling, program, we actively work with our clients on a wide range of these efforts, from touch-free water conservation, and LEED certification assistance for clients. energy reduction to green cleaning and Leadership in Energy & Environmental ABM.com/Services/GreenCare. Design (LEED) certification. • Just as with our entire line of services, ABM is utilizing technology to upgrade our sustainable offerings. This technology includes electrically activated ❚ ABM GreenCare® water systems that produce general cleaning and sanitizing solutions from ABM.com/GreenCare/GreenCare-Services water, salt and electricity. These allow ABM to produce safe, non-toxic daily helps clients make improvements in cleaning solutions onsite and reduce packaging, transportation, and storage four key areas: environmental and social issues associated with traditional chemicals responsibility, team member productivity and retention, property protection, • ABM continues to identify new products and methods to operate more and fiscal responsibility. This program’s offerings span our businesses and efficiently for our clients and stay on the forefront of sustainable practices the key industries we serve. As a member of the U.S. Green Building Council and new innovations in cleaning methods and equipment. Through our strong, (USGBC), we also continue to offer specific products and procedures for established relationships with industry-leading supply, chemical, and raw buildings to maintain certification through the LEED Rating system. material manufacturers, we are actively implementing new solutions. ABM’s commitment to measuring its GreenCare program performance has led to some statistics relating to its clients’ sustainability efforts, including: Assisted 230+ Implemented at million square feet of Reduced clients’ Installed 10,000+ EV client buildings to maintain 1,000+ buildings, energy use by charging ports across the certification through the totaling 460+ million LEED rating system 23+ percent United States with many more square feet across We service 450+ USGBC on average expected in 2019 LEED-certified and the United States registered sites C O R P O R AT E S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 | 5 ❚ DISCLOSURES ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY ❚ Energy ❚ Parking Our expertise in energy savings performance contracts and Property For parking facilities, ABM provides LEED certification support, such as EV Assessed Clean Energy (PACE) financing provides us with the unique ability to charging ports, solar panel installation, green cleaning, and energy-efficient collaboratively work with clients to help them address facility upgrade needs, lighting. Our customized mobile app helps drivers save time, money, and gas sustainability goals, and financing options. Through the implementation through online payments, a parking locator, a frequent parker program, and of the ABM program, clients benefit from improved facilities that are paid online reservations. We were one of the founding members of ParkSmart and for through their existing budget and from the savings incurred by the service two ParkSmart Green Certified garages, in addition to our sustainable improvements. In addition to traditional facility upgrades that help clients practices at other locations. lower costs — HVAC, mechanical, electrical and lighting — we also offer a ABM parking also provides the incentive of discounted parking for people who number of other energy conservation measures, including EV charging and share rides or participate in van pools. One of our client’s rideshare programs solar solutions. ABM.com/Energy. consists of 34 leased vehicles and has more than 3,000 participants. Energy Performance Contracting Program We install bicycle parking and offer shuttle services to assist our clients’ As an accredited member of the National Association of Energy Companies, ABM customers to safely and sustainably move from parking lots to facilities, or achieves cost reductions and sustainability goals for our partners by using future from public transit centers to client facilities. For riders’ convenience, we sell savings to enable projects. Our energy performance contracting program has public transit passes (bus or train), and we help clients by doing SCAQMD helped public and private sector clients save an average of 23% on their energy emissions reporting. More than half of our shuttles use natural gas or propane, costs and millions of dollars over the course of their contracts. running 11 million miles a year. We wash our vehicles according to local environmental regulations. EV Charging As one of the leading installers of EV charging stations, ABM has installed ❚ Landscape & Grounds more than 10,000 EV charging ports. ABM’s partnership with multiple market ABM uses alternative fuel and water-efficient, “smart” irrigation systems leaders of EV hardware and network providers brings us the first all-inclusive, with timers and flow sensors to help keep clients’ properties sustainable. affordable charging service plan. There’s no need to choose either DC or Level Approximately 65 smart controllers have been installed in 2018. Our services 2 Fast Charging Stations, which creates a value-added amenity for all of a include draught tolerant plantings, integrated pest management, and LEED clients’ customers. certification support. Solar ❚ Air Travel We help clients understand that solar has become a viable financial solution for ABM’s GreenCare Program is an integral part of our services at several airport companies. ABM enables facilities to receive the financial and environmental locations. We are committed to reducing our clients’ impact on the environment benefits of adopting a solar power solution and assists with the design, by providing a full range of services, from environmentally friendly janitorial and installation, financing and management of these systems. maintenance to energy efficiency improvements. Brands that are also part of the ABM family OmniServ (based in the U.K., serves airlines and airports worldwide). C O R P O R AT E S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 | 6 Blackjack Promotions (based in the U.K., serves airport operators, retailers and other clients). ❚ DISCLOSURES ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY 102-3 Location of Headquarters 102-4 Location of Operations New York, NY Primary operations occur throughout the United States and various international locations, including the United Kingdom. Norway UK Republic of Ireland Canada Spain 350+ US Offices Portugal Bermuda Puerto Rico Qatar Cayman Islands UAE Mexico Jamaica Netherlands Antilles Costa Rica Guam Colombia Ecuador Peru Australia Chile ABM Self-Performed Services Franchise and Joint Venture Operations *Countries shown in green are franchise locations. C O R P O R AT E S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 | 7 ❚ DISCLOSURES ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY 102-5 Ownership and Legal Form 102-6 Markets Served ABM is incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware and is a publicly ABM serves commercial, industrial, government, and retail clients in the following traded company, governed by a board of directors. ABM common stock is listed markets throughout the United States and various international locations. on the New York Stock Exchange [NYSE: ABM]. • Aviation The person or entities known to ABM to be beneficial owners of more than • Banking & Financial Services 5% of the shares of ABM common stock as of December 31, 2018 are set forth below. This disclosure is based on a review of Schedule 13G filings and • Biopharma Schedule 13D filings. • Commercial Buildings • BlackRock, Inc. • Data Centers • The Vanguard Group, Inc • State Street Corporation • Education • FMR LLC • Government • Healthcare • Hospitality • Industrial & Manufacturing • Mission Critical • Retail • Sports & Entertainment C O R P O R AT E S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 | 8 ❚ DISCLOSURES ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY 102-7 Scale of the Organization Dollar amounts in millions, except per share amounts. Information relates to ABM’s fiscal year ending October 31, 2018. 2018 2017 2016 Number of Team 136,766 135,912 114,658 members Net revenues $6,442.2 $5,453.6 $4,897.8 Net income per share $1.47 $0.07 $1.33 102-8 Information on Team members and Other Workers Total Male Female 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 Board 12 10 9 67% 70% 66% 33% 30% 34% Service 129.266 128,137 107,446 52% 52% 55% 48% 48% 45% Staff & Management 7.496 7,765 7,212 60% 59% 61% 40% 41% 39% Age <30 Age 30-50 Age >50 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 Board 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 100% 100% 100% Service 20% 20% 19% 42% 42% 52% 38% 38% 39% Staff & Management 8% 9% 23% 53% 52% 42% 39% 39% 35% Minority White Not Specified 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 Board 33% 40% 67% 60% 0% 0% Service 73% 73% 19% 17% 8% 10% Staff & Management 47% 50% 51% 48% 2% 2% Full time Part time Union Non-union 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 Board Service 102,233 98,130 27,023 30,007 45,074 50,509 79,354 77,628 Staff & Management 7,433 7,720 63 45 34 0 6,987 7,765 C O R P O R AT E S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 | 9 ❚ DISCLOSURES ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY have achieved savings through the realignment of our organization by industry 102-9 Supply Chain group, divested businesses that were not at the core of our strategy, centralized key functional areas, strengthened our sales capabilities, initiated investments in service delivery tools and processes, improved our team member engagement ABM uses strategic supplier partnerships, providing a capable, modern supply programs, and added to our position as a leading integrated service provider chain allowing ABM team members to order and receive the products used through the acquisition of GCA. We continue focusing on several key initiatives to service our clients in the most efficient manner. Having strategic suppliers across our organization to sustain our 2020 Vision strategy and profitably deliver implementing modern supply chain practices allows ABM to asses and minimize leading industry-based facility solutions. the Company’s impact of transporting machines, cleaning materials, etc. between work sites. ❚ Systems and Technology Transformation ABM’s suppliers fall into several Following the acquisition and integration of GCA, we began with significant categories. These include suppliers investments in our information technology infrastructure. We have begun to for internal operations (office upgrade several key platforms, including our human resources information supplies, information technology, systems, enterprise resource planning system, and labor management system. communications, utilities, etc.), We are also utilizing technology to help improve processes company-wide, suppliers for products used in including account planning, labor management, payroll, and procurement. To our services (cleaning chemicals, further improve work order management, we have also launched a “Tag Pricer” cleaning equipment, paper and tool that allows us to capture work orders more efficiently. We believe these plastic liner products, engineering improvements will help simplify our operating environment, drive productivity, HVAC, alternative energy components, fleet vehicles, landscape materials), and create consistency and efficiency across our organization. service providers (pest control, landscaping, engineering, waste removal) and ❚ Strategic Growth suppliers for external marketing and communications (consultants, printing, We are focused on long-term, profitable growth related to both new and existing materials). clients across and within our industry groups. We believe operational leverage from our strategic growth initiatives, combined with our continued focus on 102-10 Significant Changes to the Organization and Its Supply Chain operational efficiency, will increase profitability. ABM is a leading provider of integrated facility solutions, customized by industry, ❚ Cost Optimization with a mission to make a difference, every person, every day. We continue to centralize many of our back-office functions through our Enterprise Services Center in Sugar Land, Texas to help drive consistency in ❚ 2020 Vision practice and support operating efficiency. In addition, by consolidating purchasing In September 2015, we announced a comprehensive transformation initiative activities we have been able to leverage our scale, increase our purchasing power, (“2020 Vision”) intended to drive long-term, profitable growth through an and identify preferred suppliers, which has enabled cost saving opportunities in industry-based go-to-market approach. In connection with our 2020 Vision, we supplies and materials procurement. C O R P O R AT E S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 | 10 ❚ DISCLOSURES ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY Our operations are subject to various federal, state and/or local laws regulating 102-11 Precautionary Principle or Approach discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, such as discharge into soil, water, and air, and ABM’s management is responsible for day-to-day risk management activities. the generation, handling, storage, transportation, and disposal of waste and The ABM Board of Directors, acting directly and through its committees, is hazardous substances. These laws can have the effect of increasing costs and responsible for the oversight of ABM’s risk management. Our management has potential liabilities associated with the conduct of our operations. implemented an enterprise risk management process designed to work across In addition, from time to time, we are involved in environmental matters at some ABM to identify, assess, govern and manage risks and ABM’s response to those of our locations or in connection with our operations. Historically, the cost of risks. The ABM Board of Directors’ Strategy and Enterprise Risk Committee complying with environmental laws or resolving environmental issues relating to assists the Board in its oversight of the overall enterprise risk management United States locations or operations has not had a material adverse effect on program, including risks relating to operations. The Enterprise Risk Management our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Committee identifies key enterprise risks. The Board of Directors’ Strategy ABM holds its suppliers and contractors to a high standard. ABM is committed to and Enterprise Risk Committee and the Board itself each receive regular ERM complying with all laws prohibiting child labor, including adherence to minimum reports. ABM continues to move forward with the integration of sustainability age provisions of applicable laws and regulations. This includes ABM’s internal into our business strategy following the four key principles: workforce and our suppliers. ABM also expects its subcontractors to commit • Responsibility in the workplace relates to a broad range of items including to proper treatment of their workers, specifically including human rights and labor standards, talent management, diversity and inclusion, discrimination freedom of association. and harassment, team member training and safety, and team member health; • Responsibility in the marketplace revolves around client safety, service quality, responsible sourcing and supply chain management, and proper and 102-12 External Initiatives responsible marketing practices; • Responsibility in the environment is centered on our energy and resource • Energy Services Coalition (ESC) efficiency, reducing or eliminating drains on the environments we share and • Energy Star Partner (ES) reusing or repurposing products we use and distribute to maximize their • International Crime Free Association (ICFA) lifecycle; and • International Facility Management Association (IFMA) • Responsibility in the community is the culmination of the first three principles as well as our focus on philanthropy and community involvement through our • International Sanitary Supply Association (ISSA) ABMCares program. • National Facilities Management & Technology (NFMT) All of the above feed directly into how we affect the public at large within our • Tradeline Animal Research Facilities (Tradeline) circle of influence. • US Green Building Council (USGBC) C O R P O R AT E S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 | 11 ❚ DISCLOSURES ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY • Building Services Contractors Association International (BSCAI) 102-13 Membership of Associations • Commercial Real Estate Women Network (CREW) • CoreNet Global (CNG) We are a member of numerous trade and industry groups. Our group • Institute of Real Estate Management (IREM) memberships include: • International Downtown Association (IDA) • American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) • International Council of Shopping Centers (ICSC) • American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air Conditioning Engineers • Parenteral Drug Association (PDA) (ASHRAE); Member & Program Chair ASHRAE Technical Committee 2.8 Building Environmental Impacts & Sustainability • International Association of Venue Managers (IAVM) • American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) • Professional Retail Store Maintenance Association (PRSM) • American Solar Energy Society (ASES) • Stadium Managers Association (SMA) • ASHRAE Technical Committee 6.7 Solar Energy Utilization • National Association of College and University Business Officers (NACUBO) • Association of Energy Engineers (AEE) • National School Board Association • Infrared Thermography Levels I&II Training and Certification (IRI and IRII) • APPA: Leadership in Educational Facilities • Institute Electrical & Electronic Engineers (IEEE) • Golf Course Superintendents Association of America (GCSAA) • International Electrical Testing Association (NETA) • American Academy of Medical Administrators (AAMA) • International Solar Energy Society (ISES) • American Association of Ambulatory Healthcare (AAAHC) • ISNetworld Certification (ISN) • American Association of Healthcare Administrative Management (AAHAM) • National Association of Energy Service Companies (NAESCO) • American College of Clinical Engineering (ACCE) • National Fire Protection Association: NFPA 70E and 70B Training and • American College of Healthcare Executives (ACHE) Certification • American Health Information Management Association (AHIMA) • National Institute for Certification in Engineering Technologies (NICET) • American Hospital Association (AHA) • National Society of Professional Engineers (NSPE) • American Society for Healthcare Engineering (ASHE) • Project Management Institute (PMI) • American Society of Healthcare Risk Management (ASHRM) • Zero Net Energy Alliance (ZNE) • Association for the Advancement of Medical Instrumentation (AAMI) • Airports Council International North America • Association of Healthcare Resource and Materials Managers (AHRMM) • American Association of Airport Executives (AAAE) • Healthcare Information and Management Systems Society (HIMSS) • Community Association Institute (CAI) • International Parking Institute (IPI) • Association of Luxury Suite Directors (ALSD) • National Parking Association (NPA) • Building Owners and Managers Association (BOMA) C O R P O R AT E S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 | 12 ❚ DISCLOSURES ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY 102-16 Values, Principles, Standards and Norms of Behavior ❚ Code of Business Conduct ❚ ABM Vision & Core Values For more than 100 years, we have been working to gain our stakeholder’s trust. In We continue to be dedicated to the following: our Code of Business Conduct we ensure that our principles of respect, integrity, collaboration, innovation, trust and excellence are applied through our operations, and that these values are aligned with our vision to lead the industry in the RESPECT delivery of integrated facility service solutions. Every person brings value and is acknowledged as an asset to our team. Our Commitment to Shared Values INTEGRITY We are sincere, trustworthy, and accountable. We tell the Our PURPOSE truth and do not tolerate behavior that breaches our values. To take care of the people, spaces, and places that COLLABORATION Our MISSION are important to you. We believe that we can do better and achieve more when we work together and learn from our collective experiences. To make a difference, every person, INNOVATION every day. We bring fresh ideas and data-driven insights to solve business challenges. We say What if? Why not? What’s next? EXCELLENCE Our VISION We deliver consistent, reliable service, but we don’t stop there. We are committed to exceeding expectations. To be the clear choice in the industries we serve through engaged people. TRUST We build confidence and demonstrate that we are worthy of keeping it. C O R P O R AT E S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 | 13 ❚ DISCLOSURES ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY and the Company’s overall enterprise risk management program, including risks 102-18 Governance Structure relating to operations. More information about ABM’s governance structure can be found in ABM’s ❚ Governance 2018 Proxy Statement, filed with the United States Securities and Exchange At ABM, our governance structure, along with our Code of Business Conduct, Commission on February 13, 2019. Additional information concerning our Board provide the framework for us to serve our clients, stakeholders and team and governance can also be found at Investor.ABM.com. members with integrity. ABM’s Board of Directors is responsible for overseeing ABM’s Corporate Sustainability Manager oversees the company’s sustainability the business and strategy of the company. As of October 31, 2018, ABM had 12 strategy and ensures the embedding of sustainability aspects into the day to directors: LeighAnne G. Baker, Linda Chavez, Donald F. Colleran, J. Philip Ferguson, day operations of the business. The Corporate Sustainability Manager reports Anthony G. Fernandes, Art A. Garcia, Thomas M. Gartland, Sudhakar Kesavan, directly to the Chief Communications Officer. Bi-weekly meetings are held in Lauralee E. Martin, Filippo Passerini, Scott Salmirs, and Winifred M. Webb. order to ensure the implementation of the strategy, review the implementation of All of our directors, other than our Chief Executive Officer, Scott Salmirs, are sustainability initiatives and track metrics evolution. Further, sustainability-related independent. One of our independent directors, Sudhakar Kesavan, serves as results are presented to top management during the quarterly business reviews. Chairman of the Board. ABM’s Audit Committee, comprised of Anthony G. Fernandes (Chair) J. Philip 102-40 List of Stakeholder Groups Ferguson, Art A. Garcia, Lauralee E. Martin, and Winifred M. Webb, oversees the company’s financial reporting process and assists the Board with respect to the ABM identifies our stakeholders as our investors, clients, team members, vendor Company’s compliance with legal and regulatory requirements. In addition to partners, distributors, and the communities in which we serve. its other responsibilities, the Audit Committee reviews policies with respect to financial risk management and the company’s major financial risk exposures. 102-41 Collective Bargaining Agreements ABM’s Compensation Committee, comprised of Thomas M. Gartland (Chair), Linda Chavez, Lauralee E. Martin, and Filippo Passerini, has responsibility for providing direction to the company in the area of executive compensation and monitors ABM is party to approximately 250 active collective bargaining agreements potential risks that may be associated with ABM’s compensation programs. across the U.S, with approximately 34% of team members covered by collective bargaining agreements. These collective bargaining agreements are periodically ABM’s Governance Committee, comprised of Linda Chavez (Chair), J. Philip renegotiated through bargaining with labor representatives. They also set Ferguson, Thomas M. Gartland, and Sudhakar Kesavan, is responsible for terms for wages, benefits and other terms and conditions of employment. For identifying qualified candidates for membership on the Board and for developing single-site collective bargaining agreements, ABM bargains directly with labor and recommending to the Board corporate governance principles and policies. representatives. For area-wide agreements, ABM frequently bargains in a group ABM’s Strategy and Enterprise Risk Committee, comprised of Filippo Passerini of employers who are covered by the same agreement. (Chair), Anthony G. Fernandes, Art A. Garcia, and Winifred M. Webb, is responsible for oversight with respect to strategy development and strategy implementation C O R P O R AT E S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 | 14 ❚ DISCLOSURES ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY Our team members continue to be the driving force behind everything we do at 102-42 Identifying and Selecting Stakeholders ABM, and we seek to deliver value for all our stakeholders each day. Finally, ABM feels a keen sense of responsibility to operate responsibly both for and within the ABM Key stakeholders are identified as audiences who have some interest or communities in which we operate and serve. impact on the business both through direct and indirect means. During 2018, ABM performed an update of its materiality analysis in order to 102-44 Key Topics and Concerns Raised ensure the alignment of the material topics with the transformation process coming from the 2020 vision and with the new acquisitions that the company ABM sought feedback from major stakeholders, including various team members, made during the previous years. clients and vendor partners through a Materiality Survey, compiled by CSE. More Based on this, the company increased its reach of external and internal than 95 different stakeholders were interviewed through surveys that aimed stakeholders including more team members from different service levels and top to rate the importance of the different material topics from low to high. This vendors and clients in order to ensure the alignment. assessment allows ABM to understand which aspects of sustainability our key stakeholders feel we should be concentrating our efforts on. 102-43 Approach to Stakeholder Engagement Our executives and team members considered as highly important topics like client’s health and safety, equal remuneration for men and women, diversity and ABM’s services are generally provided at our clients’ locations and are often an equal opportunity and economic performance. Further, or clients considered as integral part of our clients’ sustainability related initiatives (e.g., cleaning, facility highly important customer privacy, employment practices, and environmental maintenance, energy conservation, safety, etc.). Therefore, our approach to performance. Finally, our vendors considered as important our economic sustainability begins within ABM’s service offerings and solutions. performance, anti-corruption practices and employment practices among others. Our next known need was identified as ABM’s portion within our clients’ supply To ensure that ABM responds to the concerns of each stakeholder group, ABM chain. While not a carbon intensive company, the decision to identify and track has put in place procedures like anti-harassment and Code of Ethics trainings, our emission levels using Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol toolsets and thinking increased its efforts to ensure the safety of our team members and clients, of our company’s role, risks and potential gains in relation to climate change expanded training programs for team members, and is focused on meeting all brought sustainability integration out of merely a service element and into a the requirements to ensure that team members have safe and appropriate business component. working conditions. 2018’s revised materiality assessment included topics on security practices and materials. Other topics that are no longer considered as the most material ones are still included in the sustainability report. C O R P O R AT E S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 | 15 ❚ DISCLOSURES ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY Year Economic Environmental Labor Practices and Decent Work Human Rights Society Product Responsibility 2018 • Economic • Compliance • Employment • Non discrimination • Anti-corruption • Customer Privacy Performance • Materials • Occupational Health & Safety • Security practices • Compliance • Customer Health and Safety • Trained and Education • Compliance • Diversity and Equal Opportunity • Equal Remuneration for Women and Men 2017 • Economic • Compliance • Employment • Non-discrimination • Anti-corruption • Customer Privacy Performance • Occupational • Anti-Competitive Behavior • Customer Health and Safety • Procurement • Health & Safety • Compliance • Compliance practices • Training and Education • Diversity and Equal Opportunity • Equal Remuneration for Women and Men ❚ Report Parameters 102-45 Entities Included in the Consolidated Financial Statements This is ABM’s ninth Sustainability Report and covers activities related to our 2018 fiscal year that ended October 31, 2018. The development of this report ABM annually discloses a list of all consolidated subsidiaries as of the fiscal yearevolved from various discussions with key stakeholders as well as a materiality end in Exhibit 21.1 to ABM’s 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K, which was filed with assessment following the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework. An index the SEC on December 21, 2018. of the GRI indicators and metrics is provided on page 35, linking the applicable topics with the corresponding page(s). For the seventh year in a row, we 102-46 Defining Report Content and Topic Boundaries submitted our report to the Centre for Sustainability and Excellence (CSE) for an independent audit assessment. ❚ Corporate Sustainability Reporting Additional information about the company can be found at www.abm.com Our approach to sustainability is based upon addressing known and perceived and in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), and stakeholder needs. With ABM’s primary stakeholders being investors, clients, can be accessed at the “Investors” section of the company website. The ABM team members, vendor partners, shareholders and the communities in Corporate Sustainability Report covers the corporate activities and services which we serve, people drive our strategy, and understanding the varied and provided by ABM and its subsidiaries throughout North America and various sometimes intertwined needs of these groups is paramount to the success of international locations. The report is designed to introduce ABM, our services, ABM’s sustainability program. and organizational structure. We identify our key impacts, risks and opportunities relating to our corporate sustainability initiatives, and the primary stakeholders Readers can send feedback, comments or questions regarding our sustainability for whom our sustainability commitment is most impactful. We also discuss our plans and progress to ABM’s Corporate Communications team at sustainability@ governance for ensuring we perform with the utmost integrity on behalf of our abm.com. We welcome your insights on how we can meet our shared commitment stakeholders. Critical to our sustainability platform are: to a sustainable world. C O R P O R AT E S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 | 16 ❚ DISCLOSURES ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY • Sustainability in ABM Operations 102-47 List of Material Topics • Sustainability in ABM Services • Our People For ABM, a topic is of material interest if it is considered relevant based on ABM • Social Responsibility stakeholders’ feedback as well as our own perspective. High Boundaries Limitations Equal Diversity & Equal Materials Materials issues Renumeration Opportunity Within the Outside the Within the Outside the for Women Occupational Anti-corruption Organization Organization Organization Organization and Men NonHealth & Safety discrimination Economic ABM Industries Shareholders Influence on Stakeholder Assessments & Decisions performance Incorporated Clients, team Customer Health ABM Industries members, Environmental Security & Safety Training & Anti-corruption Compliance Practices Equal Education Incorporated shareholders, local Remuneration communities ABM Industries Clients, local Materials Incorporated communities Local Market Presence Communities Energy ABM Industries Customer Health Employment Team members Procurement Supplier Social Emissions & Safety Incorporated Practices Assessment Occupational ABM Industries Team members health and safety Incorporated Supplier Training and ABM Industries The ABM Corporate Sustainability Environmental Team members Water education Incorporate Report covers the corporate activities Assessment Market Presence Anti-competitive Employment and services provided by ABM and its Labor/ Behavior Diversity and equal ABM Industries Management opportunity (Equal Team members subsidiaries throughout North America Relations Incorporate and various international locations. Remuneration) NonABM Industries Team members Indirect discrimination Incorporate Effluents & Socioeconomic Economic Marketing & Impacts Waste Labeling Compliance ABM Industries Security Practices Team members Incorporate Customer health ABM Industries Clients and safety Incorporate ABM Industries Level of ABM Concern Significance of Impacts High Customer privacy Clients Incorporate Clients, team Socioeconomic ABM Industries members, Compliance Incorporate shareholders, local 102-48 Restatements of Information communities None. C O R P O R AT E S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 | 17 ❚ DISCLOSURES ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY and accounting. As permitted under SAB 118, the adjustments we recorded due 102-49 Changes in Reporting to the Tax Act, including the remeasurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities and the transition tax, were based on reasonable estimates and were considered provisional during the year. As of October 31, 2018, the one-time impact of the The U.S. Economic Labor Outlook continues to demonstrate positive underlying change in tax rate on our deferred tax assets and liabilities is complete. Additionally, fundamentals, with expanding gross domestic product growth and improving we have completed our assessment of GILTI and have established a policy to employment conditions, which have led to historically low levels of both account for this tax on a period basis beginning in fiscal year 2019. We have also unemployment and underemployment across the country. These factors have completed our analysis of the one-time transition tax and recorded the impact. contributed to the lower availability of qualified labor for our business and higher Acquisition of GCA during 2017 On September 1, 2017 (the “Acquisition Date”), we turnover in certain markets, as our team members have more job opportunities acquired GCA, a provider of integrated facility services to educational institutions both inside and outside our industry. This in turn has caused, and may continue to and commercial facilities, for approximately $1.3 billion, consisting of $837.5 million cause, higher labor and related personnel costs. United States Tax Reform The in cash (revised during the second quarter of 2018 to reflect a post-closing purchase Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act”), which was enacted on December 22, 2017, price adjustment related to a net working capital settlement) and approximately 9.4 represents the most significant overhaul of the U.S. tax code in more than 30 million shares of ABM common stock with a fair value of $421.3 million at closing. years. Among other provisions, the Tax Act provides for a reduction of the federal Refer to Note 3, “Acquisitions,” in the Financial Statements for more information corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% and a “transition tax” to be levied on this transaction. Our consolidated statements of comprehensive income and on the deemed repatriation of indefinitely reinvested earnings of international statements of cash flows include GCA’s results of operations in 2018, but exclude subsidiaries. Since we have an October 31 fiscal year end, the lower corporate GCA’s results of operations in the comparative years prior to the Acquisition Date. income tax rate was phased in, resulting in a U.S. statutory federal rate of 23.3% During the year ended October 31, 2018, we recognized total revenue from GCA of for fiscal 2018 and 21% for subsequent fiscal years. Other provisions under the $1.0 billion, including incremental revenues of $855.7 million. Tax Act become effective for us in fiscal 2019, including limitations on deductibility of interest and executive compensation, as well as a new minimum tax on Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income (“GILTI”). As a result, in 2019 we expect our effective 102-50 Reporting Period tax rate to increase from the 2018 rate. The impact of the Tax Act, as summarized below for the year ended October 31, 2018, is further described in Note 17, “Income Unless otherwise indicated, this report covers our 2018 fiscal year which ended Taxes,” in the Financial Statements. Year Ended (in millions) October 31, 2018 October 31, 2018. Remeasurement of U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities $ 27.7 Transition tax on non-U.S. subsidiaries’ earnings (4.5) Total impact of the Tax Act on the benefit for income taxes $ 23.2. Due to the complexities of implementing the provisions 102-51 Date of Most Recent Report of the Tax Act, the staff of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff Accounting Bulletin 118 (“SAB 118”), which provides guidance on accounting Fiscal 2017 (November 1, 2016 through October 31, 2017) for tax effects of the Tax Act and permits a measurement period not to exceed one year from the enactment date for companies to complete the required analyses C O R P O R AT E S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 | 18 ❚ DISCLOSURES ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY 102-52 Reporting Cycle 102-56 External Assurance Annual For the eighth year in a row, we submitted our report to the Centre for Sustainability and Excellence (CSE) for an independent audit assessment. 102-53 Contact Point for Questions Regarding the Report 201-1 Direct Economic Value Generated and Distributed Readers can send feedback, comments or questions regarding our sustainability plans and progress to ABM’s Corporate Communication team at sustainability@ Financial information can found in ABM’s Annual Report on Form 10-K. abm.com. 102-54 Claims of Reporting in Accordance with the GRI Standards This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. C O R P O R AT E S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 | 19 ❚ DISCLOSURES ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY 201-2 Financial Implications and Other Risks and Opportunities Due to Climate Change Our operations are subject to various federal, state and/or local laws regulating discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, such as discharge into soil, water, and air, and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, and disposal of waste and hazardous substances. These laws generally have the effect of increasing costs and potential liabilities associated with the conduct of our operations. In addition, from time to time, we are involved in environmental matters at some of our locations or in connection with our operations. Historically, the cost of complying with environmental laws or resolving environmental issues relating to United States locations or operations has not had a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. ❚ Risks by regulation changes Estimated Financial Description Potential Impact Direct/Indirect Likelihood Magnitude of Impact Management Method Cost of Management Implications Difficult to quantify Reviewed by management No current costs Changes in tax and regulation burdens could Increased however the cost impacts and included within Direct About as likely as not Low associated with managing add additional costs to ABM. operational cost are anticipated to be our Enterprise Risk this risk at this time relatively minor. Management. Changes in tax and regulation burdens could Difficult to quantify the Reviewed by management No current costs add additional costs to clients and indirectly Reduced demand for client’s response and and included within Indirect (Client) About as likely as not Low-medium associated with managing affect ABM due to client budgetary goods/services capability to absorb these our Enterprise Risk this risk at this time constraints. changes. Management. ❚ Risks by climate-related developments Description Potential Impact Direct/Indirect Likelihood Magnitude of Impact Customers whose business model is moderately to heavily affected by climate change and/or Reduced demand for goods/services Direct Unlikely Low-medium climate change regulation are likely to be influenced by ABM’s carbon performance. Radical shifts in customer team member density within existing space can dramatically affect Other: The primary driver of our costs are labor dollars, our ability to service an area with the existing labor. These changes may occur within the next increases in density can change our costs to maintain Direct About as likely as not Medium five years as companies that are significantly affected by carbon regulation use methods to the area at the same service level prior to the density consolidate people, resources and energy consumption in condensed areas. changes C O R P O R AT E S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 | 20 ❚ DISCLOSURES ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY ❚ Opportunities by regulation changes Description Potential Impact Direct/Indirect Likelihood Magnitude of Impact Our Facility Solutions Group has opportunities to increase our involvement in assisting clients Medium Increased demand for existing products/services Indirect (Client) Likely with calculating and reporting their emissions related to building operations. Our Facility Solutions Group has opportunities to assist clients with auditing and improving upon energy consumption, provisioning and building automation upgrades to meet new regulations New products/business services Indirect (Client) Likely Medium and standards. ❚ Opportunities by climate-related developments Description Potential Impact Direct/Indirect Likelihood Magnitude of Impact Customers currently are looking for facility services companies that understand the processes and importance of fostering sustainability and minimizing environmental impact. ABM actively works with its customers on a wide range of these efforts, from energy reduction to LEED certification. ABM can provide these services across our service geographies, in the U.S., Canada and United Kingdom. As customers embrace and implement Increased demand for existing Direct More likely than not Medium various changes within their operating model due to climate change and look for facility service companies that products/services understand their role and impact around these changes, ABM stands to maintain as well as gain market share by proactively offering sustainable service offerings within all our Industry Groups as well as “walking the talk” within our own corporate operations. ❚ Company Match 201-3 Defined Benefit Plan Obligations and Other Retirement Plans ABM will match 100% of the first 3% and 50% of the next 2% of the eligible compensation that an team member contributes. To receive the maximum ❚ Plan Liabilities company, match of 4%, an team member must contribute 5% of her eligible ABM’s Plan Liability is $3,543,000 and Assets are $1,204,000. We also have compensation. $5.0M for Life Insurance plan, but it is covered annually by including those team The number of participants varies during the year; the current number of members in our general Life Insurance program. participants represents 18% of the eligible population. ❚ 401(k) Eligibility 201-4 Financial Assistance Received from Government Eligible team members can participate in the plan on the first of the month following completion of 6 months of qualifying service. Eligible team members are regular, active and full time and part time team members who are not covered ABM does not receive significant financial assistance from any host government. by a CBA that excludes them from participation. A rehired team member who previously qualified for the ABM 401(k) Team member Savings Plan will qualify immediately upon rehire. C O R P O R AT E S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 | 21 ❚ DISCLOSURES ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY 204-1 Proportion of Spending on Local Suppliers 206-1 Legal Actions for Anti-Competitive Behavior, Anti-Trust and Monopoly Practices In 2018, ABM’s local network of 40+ strategically positioned suppliers utilized A discussion of certain legal actions relating to fiscal year 2018 can be over 100 distribution centers to distribute products to significant locations of found in the company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended operations. ABM defines a local geography to be within a maximum 100-mile October 31, 2018. radius of an ABM distribution center. ABM has a broad customer base and defines a significant location of operation 301-3 Reclaimed Products and Their Packaging Materials as a metropolitan area or a location in excess of 500,000 square feet (manufacturing, industrial, etc.). In 2018 ~85% of ABM’s significant locations budget was distributed locally. From Nov. 2017 through Oct. 2018, ABM securely shredded and recycled 72.284 short (US) ton(s) (144,568.813 pounds) of paper in 2018, which resulted in the below estimated environmental benefits – ABM works with Iron Mountain to 205-2 Communication and Training About Anti-Corruption Policies and accumulate this data. Procedures Anti-Corruption Policies and Procedures Generated • Carbon Footprint: 104,667.232 lbs. of CO2 emissions avoided = 10.12 cars off and Distributed the road per year • Landfill Space: 361.420 Cubic Yards of landfill space conserved ABM’s annual Code of Business Conduct and Anti-Harassment Training are • Trees: 1,212.926 trees preserved required for all staff and management team members – our Code of Business Conduct was updated in FY 2017 and published in November 2017. The Code of • Energy: 163,361.840 kWh of electricity saved = 433.704 years of energy Business Conduct training tool also has been modified and updated to include demand for a laptop questions specifically concerning anti-bribery and anti-corruption compliance, • Water: 1,981,376.724 Gallons of water saved = 216.852 pools full of water political contributions, personal relationships, information systems usage and the saved overall ethical environment at ABM. COBC US 7400 Complete Anti-Harassment US 7046 Complete COBC UK 595 Complete Anti-Harassment UK Program Not Offered C O R P O R AT E S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 | 22 ❚ DISCLOSURES ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY 302-1 Energy Consumption with the Organization 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG Emissions ABM’s direct Scope 1 GHG Emissions from 2018 and 2017 are listed in the Source MWh below table: 2018 2017 2016 Electricity (MWh) 12,267 14,885 14,800 Emissions Unit 2018 2017 2016 Motor Gasoline N/A 133,822 179,102 Scope 1 CO2 e Tonnes 45,833 39,377 47,780 Diesel N/A 14,519 13,235 Scope 1 Data of natural gas use in leased offices was gathered through a survey. Biogasoline N/A 159 67 Offices in which the utilities are included in CAM were estimated based upon Natural Gas 5,488 5,468 5,910 similarity to other known offices of that size and region of the country. Fleet data of gallons of fuel used by vehicle, by model year were analyzed. Fuel purchases The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard not directly assigned to a specific vehicle were calculated as a Light-Duty (Revised Edition) and relevant tools were used in these calculations. Vehicle (small truck/van) as that is our primary vehicle type. The Greenhouse Gas Data of natural gas use in leased offices was gathered through our annual survey. Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (Revised Edition) and Office locations in which the utilities are included in common area maintenance relevant tools were used in these calculations. (CAM) were estimated based upon similarity to other known offices of that size and region of the country. Fleet data of gallons of fuel used by vehicle and by 305-2 Energy Indirect (Scope 2) GHG Emissions model year were analyzed. Fuel purchases not directly assigned to a specific vehicle were calculated as a Light-Duty Vehicle (small truck/van) as that is our ABM’s indirect Scope 2 GHG Emissions from 2018 and 2017 are listed in the primary vehicle type within the ABM fleet. below table: Actual data was gathered through our online survey when available. For offices Emissions Unit 2018 2017 2016 that did not have readily available data or the electricity is included within CAM Scope 2 CO2 e Tonnes 6,536 8,295 7,896 charges, estimations were made based upon similar sized offices of the same Scope 2 Actual electricity data was gathered through our online survey when region or previous year data (if available). available. For offices that did not have readily available data or the electricity is included within CAM charges, estimations were made based upon similar sized offices of the same region or previous year data (if available). The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (Revised Edition) and relevant tools were used in these calculations. C O R P O R AT E S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 | 23 ❚ DISCLOSURES ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY 305-3 Other Indirect (Scope 3) GHG Emissions 305-5 Reduction of GHG Emissions ABM’s indirect Scope 3 GHG Emissions from 2018, 2017 and 2016 are listed in the ABM is seeking to reduce its metric tons of CO2E per FTE Equivalent by 15% below table: from our 2011-year baseline by 2020. The types of energy included in the ❚ Emissions reductions include purchased electricity, fleet fuel usage and natural gas used at our office locations. Emissions Unit 2018 2017 2016 Normalized Scope 3 CO2 e Tonnes 39,458 36,795 33,910 % of % base year reduction Base Target Scope emissions Metric emissions from base year year in scope covered by Scope 3 Team member Air Travel Miles, by passenger mile, by flight length <300, year target 300 1000, >1000 miles acquired through centralized booking. Added in 2014 was Metric tonnes Scope 1+2 the mileage of aviation service fleet vehicles (buses, trucks, etc.) input into GHG (location 100% 15% CO2e per unit 2011 58,120.15 2020 FTE team Protocol Transport tool. The actual gallons used was not able to be tracked as based) member client supplies the fuel at their own fuel stations. Mileage per gallon estimated via percentage of vehicle types. % complete (time) % complete (emissions or renewable energy) 2018 2017 305-4 GHG Emissions Intensity 100% 62% 66% Direction of Metric numerator (Gross global Metric denominator: Intensity figure Metric denominator Scope 2 figure used % change from previous year change from combined Scope 1 and 2 emissions) Unit total previous year 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 full time equivalent 0.55 0.625 metric tonnes CO2e 95723.83 75035.34 Location based 13.39 5.36 Decrease (FTE) team member 0.000264 0.000305 metric tonnes CO2e until hour worked 52689.3 15607397.3 Location based 13.44 6.27 Decrease C O R P O R AT E S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 | 24 ❚ DISCLOSURES ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY 307-1 Non-Compliance with Environmental Laws and Regulations 308-1 New Suppliers Screened Using Environmental Criteria Disclosure relating to regulatory environment and environmental compliance As part of ABM’s network of 40+ strategic supply partnerships, four were added can be found in the company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2017 fiscal year in 2017 (Karcher, Heritage Bag, Essity/Tork, Spartan Chemical). ABM requires ending October 31, 2018. sustainability considerations in order to do business with ABM. C O R P O R AT E S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 | 25 ❚ DISCLOSURES ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY 401-1 New Team member Hires and Team member Turnover ❚ ABM Hires/Re-Hires (11/1/2017 10/31/2018) Industry Group Total Full-Time Part-Time Male Female Age < 30 Age 30-50 Age > 50 Age Not Specified MINORITY WHITE NOT SPECIFIED 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 ABS Technical 303 433 299 413 4 20 263 358 40 75 67 79 165 239 71 115 0 95 144 204 289 4 0 Solutions US AVI Aviation 16,332 18,783 15,761 18,044 571 739 7,416 8,284 8,916 10,499 8,942 10,441 5,158 5,879 2,232 2,463 0 14,726 17,338 1,302 1,309 304 136 BNI Business & 31,713 39,682 18,437 24,565 13,276 15,117 16,057 20,719 15,656 18,963 11,157 13,833 13,310 17,061 7,246 8,788 0 12 23,132 29,855 5,830 7,199 2,751 2,616 Industry COO Commercial 4 5 4 5 0 3 3 1 2 2 0 2 2 3 0 2 0 1 5 1 0 Ops HQ CSA Corporate 215 374 198 343 17 31 88 140 127 234 69 99 115 204 31 71 0 121 243 76 125 18 6 EDU Education 18,699 21,575 15,074 16,774 3,625 4,801 7,138 8,314 11,561 13,261 5,623 6,820 7,310 8,443 5,766 6,312 0 11,589 13,710 4,453 3,976 2,657 3,889 HLC Healthcare 4,036 3,921 2,651 2,400 1,385 1,521 1,836 1,881 2,200 2,040 1,606 1,586 1,483 1,455 947 880 0 2,644 2,701 1,278 918 114 302 TCM Technology & 16,104 7,753 13,658 6,865 2,446 888 7,928 3,661 8,176 4,092 5,974 2,875 6,881 3,155 3,249 1,723 0 9,740 4,653 4,210 1,621 2,154 1,479 Manufacturing 87,406 92,526 66,082 69,409 21,324 23,117 40,729 43,360 46,677 49,166 33,440 35,733 34,424 36,438 19,542 20,355 0 12 62,049 68,644 17,354 15,442 8,003 8,428 Industry Group Total Full-Time Part-Time Male Female Age < 30 Age 30-50 Age > 50 Age Not Specified MINORITY WHITE NOT SPECIFIED 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 ABS Technical 303 433 99% 95% 1% 5% 87% 83% 13% 17% 22% 18% 54% 55% 23% 27% 0% 0% 31% 33% 67% 67% 1% 0% Solutions US AVI Aviation 16,332 18,783 97% 96% 3% 4% 45% 44% 55% 56% 55% 56% 32% 31% 14% 13% 0% 0% 90% 92% 8% 7% 2% 1% BNI Business & 31,713 39,682 58% 62% 42% 38% 51% 52% 49% 48% 35% 35% 42% 43% 23% 22% 0% 0% 73% 75% 18% 18% 9% 7% Industry COO Commercial 4 5 100% 100% 0% 0% 75% 60% 25% 40% 50% 0% 50% 40% 0% 60% 0% 0% 50% 0% 25% 100% 25% 0% Ops HQ CSA Corporate 215 374 92% 92% 8% 8% 41% 37% 59% 63% 32% 26% 53% 55% 14% 19% 0% 0% 56% 65% 35% 33% 8% 2% EDU Education 18,699 21,575 81% 78% 19% 22% 38% 39% 62% 61% 30% 32% 39% 39% 31% 29% 0% 0% 62% 64% 24% 18% 14% 18% HLC Healthcare 4,036 3,921 66% 61% 34% 39% 45% 48% 55% 52% 40% 40% 37% 37% 23% 22% 0% 0% 66% 69% 32% 23% 3% 8% TCM Technology & 16,104 7,753 85% 89% 15% 11% 49% 47% 51% 53% 37% 37% 43% 41% 20% 22% 0% 0% 60% 60% 26% 21% 13% 19% Manufacturing 87,406 92,526 76% 75% 24% 25% 47% 47% 53% 53% 38% 39% 39% 39% 22% 22% 0% 0% 71% 74% 20% 17% 9% 9% C O R P O R AT E S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 | 26 ❚ DISCLOSURES ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY ❚ ABM Terminations/Separations (11/1/2017 10/31/2018) Industry Group Total Full-Time Part-Time Male Female Age < 30 Age 30-50 Age > 50 Age Not Specified MINORITY WHITE NOT SPECIFIED 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 ABS Technical 272 311 264 290 8 21 235 278 37 33 39 37 158 183 75 91 0 88 96 184 215 0 Solutions US AVI Aviation 17,120 18,771 16,447 17,730 673 1,041 7,753 8,471 9,367 10,300 9,048 10,371 5,457 5,710 2,615 2,690 0 15,432 17,257 1,496 1,364 192 150 BNI Business & 29,557 42,540 17,861 25,210 11,696 17,330 15,283 22,538 14,274 20,002 9,010 13,315 12,207 18,287 8,340 10,938 0 4 21,380 32,212 6,137 8,152 2,040 2,172 Industry COO Commercial 8 1 8 1 0 7 0 1 1 1 0 2 0 5 1 0 3 0 5 1 0 Ops HQ CSA Corporate 259 293 240 270 19 23 100 109 159 184 51 56 136 170 72 67 0 141 184 86 102 32 7 EDU Education 16,713 19,848 12,901 15,391 3,812 4,457 6,714 8,070 9,999 11,778 4,724 6,324 6,404 7,926 5,585 5,598 0 10,230 12,468 3,916 3,870 2,567 3,510 HLC Healthcare 3,959 4,267 2,563 2,494 1,396 1,773 1,925 2,236 2,034 2,031 1,522 1,767 1,447 1,541 990 959 0 2,629 2,862 1,212 1,194 118 211 TCM Technology & 14,735 8,108 12,330 6,980 2,405 1,128 7,432 4,023 7,303 4,085 5,189 2,715 6,198 3,368 3,348 2,025 0 8,921 5,044 3,857 1,603 1,957 1,461 Manufacturing 82,623 94,143 62,614 68,369 20,009 25,774 39,449 45,727 43,174 48,416 29,584 34,587 32,009 37,186 21,030 22,370 0 4 58,824 70,125 16,893 16,503 6,906 7,511 Industry Group Total Full-Time Part-Time Male Female Age < 30 Age 30-50 Age > 50 Age Not Specified MINORITY WHITE NOT SPECIFIED 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 ABS Technical 272 311 97% 93% 3% 7% 86% 89% 14% 11% 14% 12% 58% 59% 28% 29% 0 0% 32% 31% 68% 69% 0% 0% Solutions US AVI Aviation 17120 18,771 96% 94% 4% 6% 45% 45% 55% 55% 53% 55% 32% 30% 15% 14% 0 0% 90% 92% 9% 7% 1% 1% BNI Business & 29,557 42,540 60% 59% 40% 41% 52% 53% 48% 47% 30% 31% 41% 43% 28% 26% 0 0% 72% 76% 21% 19% 7% 5% Industry COO Commercial 8 1 100% 100% 0% 0% 88% 0% 13% 100% 13% 0% 25% 0% 63% 100% 0 0% 38% 0% 63% 100% 0% 0% Ops HQ CSA Corporate 259 293 93% 92% 7% 8% 39% 37% 61% 63% 20% 19% 53% 58% 28% 23% 0 0% 54% 63% 33% 35% 12% 2% EDU Education 16,713 19,848 77% 78% 23% 22% 40% 41% 60% 59% 28% 32% 38% 40% 33% 28% 0 0% 61% 63% 23% 19% 15% 18% HLC Healthcare 3,959 4,267 65% 58% 35% 42% 49% 52% 51% 48% 38% 41% 37% 36% 25% 22% 0 0% 66% 67% 31% 28% 3% 5% TCM Technology & 14735 8,108 84% 86% 16% 14% 50% 50% 50% 50% 35% 33% 42% 42% 23% 25% 0 0% 61% 62% 26% 20% 13% 18% Manufacturing 82623 94,143 76% 73% 24% 27% 48% 49% 52% 51% 36% 37% 39% 39% 25% 24% 0 0% 71% 74% 20% 18% 8% 8% C O R P O R AT E S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 | 27 ❚ DISCLOSURES ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY 401-2 Benefits Provided to Full-Time Team members Not Provided to 403-2 Types of Injury and Rates of Injury, Occupational Diseases, Lost Temporary or Part-Time Team members Days, and Absenteeism, and Number of Work-Related Fatalities Case Classification ❚ ABM Team member Benefits Other Days Away Job Transfer or Death Recordable Grand Total From Work Restriction ABM offers a comprehensive benefits package to meet the diverse needs of our Cases Claimant full-time team members. The benefits offered include: medical, dental, vision, life Group Super Region Gender 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 and disability and a 401(k) plan. BNI Central Female 63 54 59 64 68 62 190 180 Male 28 56 43 61 50 38 121 155 Note: Service Worker and union workers’ benefits are provided consistent with BNI -Central Total 91 110 102 125 118 100 311 335 their employment and/or client contract. BNI GLNE Female 113 114 33 36 49 80 195 230 Male 93 92 24 19 44 83 161 194 ❚ Serious Disease Prevention BNI GLNE Total 206 206 57 55 93 163 356 424 BNI Sports Female 6 16 13 11 10 11 29 38 Through our health plan partners, we offer the following for covered team & Ent Male 6 4 10 5 5 9 21 18 members and their families: B&I BNI Sports & Ent Total 12 20 23 16 15 20 50 56 Female 113 101 93 125 187 196 393 422 • Disease management programs which assist members in the management BNI West Male 106 126 76 87 127 164 309 377 of their chronic medical conditions such as coronary artery disease, diabetes BNI West Total 219 227 169 212 314 360 702 799 and congestive heart failure BNI Vehicle Female 9 29 23 29 61 29 Services Male 24 14 22 46 60 46 • Transplant solution programs that provide specialized networks and support BNI Vehicle Services 33 43 45 75 121 75 to members requiring transplant services Female 1 1 BNI Group OH • Health and Wellness coaching programs such as smoking cessation. Includes Male 1 1 BNI Group OH Total 2 2 monetary incentive to complete a Health Risk Assessment. Female 77 45 98 95 51 86 226 226 AVI Ops 1 • Complex case management services, which assist and coordinate the care of Male 49 49 46 36 54 69 149 146 members with serious and complex medical issues. AVI Ops 1 Total 126 86 144 131 105 155 375 372 Female 99 67 50 119 23 65 172 251 • A 24-hour nurse line that assists with non-medical emergencies Aviation AVI Ops 2 Male 41 56 42 59 22 44 105 159 AVI Ops 2 Total 140 123 92 178 45 109 277 410 Here are some additional programs that we continue to employ: AVI Ops 3 Female 1 8 42 14 65 Male 4 15 7 26 • Mynurseline-24 hour nurse line program AVI Ops 3 Total 1 12 57 21 91 • Maternity Support • Wellness coaching • Care for diabetes • Legal preparation course for will assistance C O R P O R AT E S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 | 28 ❚ DISCLOSURES ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY Case Classification Case Classification Other Other Days Away Job Transfer or Days Away Job Transfer or Death Recordable Grand Total Death Recordable Grand Total From Work Restriction From Work Restriction Cases Cases Claimant Claimant Group Super Region 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Group Super Region 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Gender Gender EDU Female 48 25 64 10 37 73 149 108 TCM Group Female 1 1 1 1 2 Northeast / OH Midwest Male 49 30 42 7 31 74 122 111 Male 1 3 1 1 4 EDU Northeast / Midwest TCM Group OH Total 1 4 1 2 2 6 97 55 106 17 68 147 271 219 Total TCM West / Female 16 13 28 10 38 52 82 75 Female 39 24 49 25 71 96 159 145 PacNW Male 15 14 21 2 15 17 51 33 Education EDU West Male 12 2 20 8 29 42 61 52 TCM West / PacNW Total 31 27 49 12 53 69 133 108 EDU West Total 51 26 69 33 100 138 220 197 TCM Female 18 29 34 30 19 42 71 101 Female 62 21 72 15 56 133 190 169 -Southeast EDU & IFS Male 38 33 27 34 21 56 86 123 -Southeast Male 45 18 54 6 30 89 129 113 TCM Southeast & IFS Total 56 62 61 64 40 98 157 224 EDU Southeast Total 107 39 126 21 86 222 319 282 T&M Female 24 12 16 11 13 26 53 49 Female 39 25 29 11 68 31 136 67 TCM Central HLC Non Male 17 7 17 14 13 12 47 33 Acute Male 12 9 6 1 18 13 36 23 TCM Central Total 41 19 33 25 26 38 100 82 HLC Non Acute Total 51 34 35 12 86 44 172 90 TCM So West / Female 18 1 22 13 22 32 62 46 HLC Patient Female 10 15 27 12 13 21 50 48 MT & Nuclear Male 19 3 3 9 30 30 52 42 Exp Male 25 24 21 17 15 15 61 56 Healthcare TCM So West / MT & Nuclear 37 4 25 22 52 62 114 88 HLC Patient Exp Total 35 39 48 29 28 36 111 104 Total HLC Tech Serv Male 1 4 3 4 4 TCM Female 18 6 14 1 9 34 41 41 HLC Tech Serv Total 1 4 3 4 4 Northeast Male 20 4 13 2 13 25 46 31 HLC Group OH Male 1 1 TCM Northeast Total 38 10 27 3 22 59 87 72 HLC Group OH Total 1 1 ABS Bldg Female 1 1 Solutions (ABS) Male 10 6 15 3 2 9 27 18 ABS Bldg Solutions (ABS) 10 6 15 3 3 9 28 18 Total ABS Elec Technical Power Sol Male 1 2 2 1 2 1 4 5 Solutions US (APS) ABS Elec Power Sol (APS) 1 2 2 1 2 1 4 5 Total ABS Elec Sol Male 1 3 3 2 5 4 (AESL) ABS Elec Sol (AESL) Total 1 3 3 2 5 4 CSA Legal 1 2 1 2 Summary Corp CSA HR / Benefits 1 2 1 2 2 Summary Grand Total 1 1 1,393 1,101 1,287 969 1,336 1,931 4,017 4,002 C O R P O R AT E S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 | 29 ❚ DISCLOSURES ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY Our OSHA rates were as follows: the engagement of team members, customer satisfaction and driving results. In 2017, a manager development program rolled out, and ongoing TRC DAFW DART training is available to all people leaders. In 2018 additional blending 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 learning opportunities became available for ABM in the areas of: 3.3 3.52 0.63 0.72 1.28 1.74 • Using coaching as a leadership style • Customer service 404-1 Average Hours of Training Per Year Per Team member • Communicating & listening • Time management & delegation Approximately 15 hours of training are devoted to 10% of ABM leadership • Human resource fundamentals and management level team members while 90% of ABM service level team In 2018 over 8,000 courses in these areas were completed. members devote 35 hours on average to training annually. Team members are As a company overall, more than 165,000 training courses were completed provided awareness training monthly in addition to regulatory-related training as in 2018 outside of on the job training/operational training. pertains to their job. Hours of Training Scope per Team member TRC 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 404-3 Percentage of Team members Receiving Regular Performance ABM Leadership and and Career Development Reviews 15 12 10 10% 10% 25% Management Level Service Level 35 35 25 90% 90% 80% ABM is committed to fostering an environment in which each team member and manager partner to build a trusting and respectful relationship in which feedback and coaching are candid and frequent; opportunities for development that align 404-2 Programs for Upgrading Team member Skills and Transition with the team member’s goals, strengths, and career interests are provided; and Assistance Programs outstanding performance, high potential and great leadership are rewarded. Building this relationship is the essence of ABM’s performance and development Various learning and development programs at ABM include annual process, referred to as GPS – Grow. Perform. Succeed! At the center of this harassment prevention training, regional supervisor training, ethics training, relationship between team member and manager are, at a minimum, quarterly and wage and hour training. Technical training for HVAC and electrical field conversations – constructive, friendly and continuous two-way conversations team members range from an additional 16-24 hours annually. about performance, development and career growth. All ABM management level team members are eligible to participate in the goal setting process and attend corporate sponsored training courses in addition to courses offered at the divisional level nationwide emphasizing C O R P O R AT E S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 | 30 ❚ DISCLOSURES ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY based on race, gender, religion, age, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, 405-1 Diversity of Governance Bodies and Team members and status as a protected veteran, among other characteristics. ABM is fully committed to equality. However, circumstances prevent us from Total Male Female providing our report at this time. Specifically, ABM has just completed Phase 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 I of a multi-phase reorganization that, given the size of our organization, is Board 12 10 9 67% 70% 66% 33% 30% 34% anticipated to take several years to complete. (We have approximately 100,000 Service 91,101 128,127 107,446 51% 52% 55% 49% 48% 45% team members and operations in all 50 states, Puerto Rico, and the District of Staff & 5,897 7,765 7,212 58% 59% 61% 42% 41% 39% Columbia, as well as in England and the Middle East.) Under our current structure, Management we have more than 20 “team member categories” and at least 460 “significant Age <30 Age 30-50 Age >50 locations of operation.” Much of this is in flux due to the reorganization. 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 Board 0 0% 0 0 0% 0% 100% 100% 100% Service 22% 20% 19% 42% 42% 52% 36% 38% 39% 406-1 Incidents of Discrimination and Corrective Actions Taken Staff & 9% 9% 23% 52% 52% 42% 39% 39% 35% Management Minority White Not Specified Professional behavior is expected and required of all ABM team members. The 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 company’s intent is to provide all team members with a workplace environment Board 33% 40% 67% 60% 0% 0% consistent with ABM’s core values of Respect, Integrity, Collaboration, Service 79% 73% 18% 17% 3% 10% Innovation, Trust and Excellence. Accordingly, ABM does not tolerate workplace Staff & discrimination or harassment based on age, ancestry, color, religious creed, 51% 50% 48% 48% 1% 2% Management request for / use of family and medical care leave, disability (mental or physical) including HIV and AIDS, marital status, medical, genetic information, military 405-2 Ratio of Basic Salary and Remuneration of Women to Men and veteran status, national origin, race, sex, gender, gender identity, gender expression, sexual orientation, or any other status protected by law. To ensure that all team members have a confidential channel for reporting incidents of ABM is an Equal Employment Opportunity/Affirmative Action employer misconduct and unlawful business practices, ABM provides a Compliance Hotline, operating in compliance with Executive Order 11246, as amended, Title VII of the a reporting system that allows team members to report a variety of concerns, Civil Rights Act, as amended, and The Equal Pay Act of 1963, as amended. Our including but not limited to: harassment, discrimination, retaliation, wage and Equal Employment Opportunity Policy, which states ABM’s zero tolerance policy hour issues (such as not being paid properly for all hours worked, not being toward discrimination, is signed and supported by President and Chief Executive paid properly for overtime, paycheck problems, etc.), accounting irregularities, Officer Scott Salmirs and applies to “all employment practices, including corporate abuse and fraud, theft, safety concerns, workers’ compensation recruitment, hiring, promotion, layoff or termination, compensation and training fraud, or other suspected violations of law or company policy, that they programs.” We are committed to providing a workplace free of discrimination observe or encounter in the workplace. The Hotline is staffed by professional, C O R P O R AT E S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 | 31 ❚ DISCLOSURES ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY trained specialists 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Reports may be made in any language and callers may remain anonymous if they wish. All completed reports to the Hotline will be assigned to an investigator. ABM conducts a prompt, objective, thorough and confidential investigation of the reported concern. The investigation process will reach reasonable conclusions based on the evidence collected. If ABM determines that conduct violating its policies has occurred, it will take prompt and appropriate remedial action which can include termination of the individual who engaged in inappropriate conduct and/or other measures designed to prevent future discrimination or harassment. In order to encourage team members to utilize the Hotline and report concerns, ABM does not publicly disclose information about complaints, the status of the investigations related thereto, or the specific remedial measures taken. 410-1 Percentage of security personnel who have received formal training Security practices were highlighted as highly important by our stakeholders during our materiality review. However, due to the changes of our business nature, ABM no longer provides security services. Therefore, security-related information is not part of our material topics. 413-1 The reporting organization shall report the following information Foremost, all ABM HR recruiting for site level team members starts in the local communities in which that site is located. We want our people who work at client locations to be members of that community, if at all possible. C O R P O R AT E S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 | 32 ❚ DISCLOSURES ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY ABM IN THE COMMUNITY ABM is committed to operating under a core set of fundamental values: • Respect • Integrity • Collaboration • Innovation • Trust • Excellence These values intertwine to provide a baseline mentality for how we operate, and nowhere is that more evident than in how we take responsibility for our activities that impact stakeholders and the environment. This year, more than 25,000 ABM team members were impacted by the devastating impact of natural disasters, including hurricanes, earthquakes and wild fires. During these times, our team members banded together to care for their communities, clients, and each other, even as they faced their own personal losses. This illustrated the strength and character of our organization and our ability to drive results through resilience. C O R P O R AT E S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 | 33 ❚ DISCLOSURES ❚ SUSTAINABILITY IN ABM ❚ ABM IN THE COMMUNITY ❚ How We Give Back 416-2 Incidents of Non-Compliance Concerning the Health and Safety We’ve launched our ABMCares program to ensure that every staff and Impacts of Products and Services management team member can take a day to do community work, if they choose. We have also formalized a charitable donation matching policy to help our For FY 2018, ABM was issued 4 OSHA Citations of Serious and 3 of Other than management and staff team members continue to give back to the communities Serious/General/Regulatory. ABM’s continued attention to safety and aggressive in which they work, play, and live. An ABMCares web portal makes it simple claim management has sustained our Experience Mod Rating (EMR) of .87. for our team members to find charities, donate their time and resources, and electronically enable donations with company matching. 418-1 Substantiated Complaints Concerning Breaches of Customer In 2018, team members in each of our industry groups and supporting business Privacy and Losses of Customer Data functions engaged in philanthropic projects in their own communities throughout the enterprise. As a result, thanks to the ABMCares program and In 2018, ABM did not identify any leaks, thefts or loss of customer data. the company's philantrophic contributions more than $2 million dollars where donated to charities. We also celebrate these activities on our Facebook page and other social 419-1 Non-Compliance with Laws and Regulations in the Social and media sites. Economic Area Individuals, ABM service teams, and clients have received international and ABM has not received significant fines or non-monetary sanctions in 2018. local recognition for their contributions to sustainability, service excellence, and community. Click here to read more about ABM’s Awards and Recognitions. 102-55 The reporting organization shall report the following information ABM.com/Awards-Recognitions C O R P O R AT E S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 | 34 GRI INDEX The Centre for Sustainability and Excellence (CSE), assessed ABM Sustainability Report in accordance with the instructions of the GRI STANDARDS and confirms that they are in compliance level “In Accordance Core''. Reference External Disclosure Description (page) Assurance ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 102-1 Name of the Organization 4 √ 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services 4-6 √ 102-3 Location of headquarters 7 √ 102-4 Location of operations 7 √ 102-5 Ownership and legal form 8 √ 102-6 Markets served 8 √ 102-7 Scale of the organization 9 √ 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 9 √ 102-9 Supply chain 10 √ Significant changes to the organization and its 102-10 10 √ supply chain 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach 11 √ 102-12 External initiatives 11 √ 102-13 Membership of associations 12 √ STRATEGY 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 3 √ ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 13 √ GOVERNANCE 102-18 Governance structure 14 √ STAKEHODLER ENGAGEMENT 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 14 √ 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 14-15 √ 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 15 √ 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 15 √ 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 15-16 √ REPORTING PRACTICE Entities included in the consolidated financial 102-45 16 √ statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 16-17 √ 102-47 List of material topics 18 √ 102-48 Restatements of information 18 √ 102-49 Changes in reporting 18-19 √ 102-50 Reporting period 19 √ 102-51 Date of most recent report 19 √ 102-52 Reporting cycle 20 √ Reference External Disclosure Description (page) Assurance 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 20 √ Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI 102-54 20 √ Standards 102-55 GRI Content Index 34-… √ 102-56 External Assurance 20 √ ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE (201) 103 Management Approach 20-22 √ 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 20 √ Financial implications and other risks and 201-2 20-21 √ opportunities due to climate change Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement 201-3 22 √ plans 201-4 Financial assistance received from government 22 √ PROCUREMENT PRACTICES (204) 103 Management Approach 22 √ 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 22 √ ANTI-CORRUPTION (205) 103 Management Approach 22 √ Communication and training about anti-corruption 205-2 22 √ policies and procedures ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR (206) 103 Management Approach 22 √ Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, 206-1 22 √ and monopoly practices MATERIALS (301) 103 Management Approach 23 √ 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials 23 √ ENERGY (302) 103 Management Approach 23-24 √ 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 23-24 √ EMISSIONS (305) 103 Management Approach 24-25 √ 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 24 √ 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 24 √ 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 24-25 √ 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 25 √ 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 25 √ ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE (307) 103 Management Approach 25 √ Non-compliance with environmental laws and 307-1 25 √ regulations SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (308) 103 Management Approach 25 √ New suppliers that were screened using 308-1 25 √ environmental criteria Reference External Disclosure Description (page) Assurance EMPLOYMENT (401) 103 Management Approach 26-28 √ 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 26-27 √ Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not 401-2 28 √ provided to temporary or part-time employees OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY (403) 103 Management Approach 28-30 √ Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational 403-2 diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number 28-30 √ of work-related fatalities TRAINING AND EDUCATION (404) 103 Management Approach 30 √ 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 30 √ Programs for updating employee skills and transition 404-2 30 √ assistance programs Percentage of employees receiving regular 404-3 30 √ performance and career development reviews DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY (405) 103 Management Approach 31 √ 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 31 √ Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to 405-2 31 √ men NON-DISCRIMINATION (406) 103 Management Approach 31-32 √ Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions 406-1 31-32 √ taken SECURITY PRACTICES (410) 103 Management Approach 32 √ Percentage of security personnel who have received 410-1 32 √ formal training LOCAL COMMUNITIES (413) 103 Management Approach 32-34 √ Operations with local community engagement, 413-1 32-34 √ impact assessments, and development programs CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY (416) 103 Management Approach 34 √ Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health 416-2 34 √ and safety impacts of products and services CUSTOMER PRIVACY (418) 103 Management Approach 34 √ Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of 418-1 34 √ customer privacy and losses of customer data SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE (419) 103 Management Approach 34 √ Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the 419-1 34 √ social and economic area
