SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CONTENTS A message from our CEO 5 00 Sergio Rossi in numbers 7 The main highlights 01 srRevolution 9 1.1 Sergio Rossi at a glance 10 1.2 Client centricity 19 1.3 Our commitment to sustainability 36 02 HUMAN CAPITAL: Preserving the value of our people 41 2.1 Investing in the artisans of tomorrow 43 2.2 Promoting a better working life 53 03 LOCAL COMMUNITIES: Fostering local districts 57 3.1 Artisanal maestria in San Mauro Pascoli 59 3.2 Cultural and philanthropic activities 67 04 ENERGY: Reducing the footprint of our shoes 81 4.1 The responsible use of energy resources for emissions reduction 83 05 Methodological note 87 GRI Content Index 96 A MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO Three years ago we started a new journey of rebirth and discovery of the true essence and DNA of the Sergio Rossi brand. To do so, we focused on our San Mauro Pascoli factory and the incredible artisanship that has always distinguished our brand as well as our heritage and know-how, but in a modern way. It was indeed looking to the future of Sergio Rossi that we launched Living Heritage, our corporate archive, to celebrate and commemorate our history and to inspire the design and creativity process of our teams. The shoes we create everyday are a true work of art, and wanting to enhance this I started a collection of modern art pieces inspired by the work of our artisans and the history of the Sergio Rossi brand. Thinking of the future is as crucial as knowing our past. This is more important today than ever and is the reason behind our investment in reducing the direct and indirect environmental footprint of our manufacturing activities by focusing on highefficiency energy production, energy monitoring, and optimizing logistics activities. Similarly, driven by the willingness to ensure a motivating and stimulating working environment, we further increased training activities focusing on digital transformation and client centricity. 2018 has been a crucial year for Sergio Rossi not only because of the results achieved but also because, starting from our corporate values, we identified the three areas in which we want to focus our sustainability efforts. These strategic pillars, as a confirmation to our commitment to the Principles of the United Nations Global Compact, are now an integral part of our first Sustainability Policy, thus setting our commitments and priorities towards environmental protection and social responsibility. We truly believe that looking at our brand through a sustainability lens will help us to improve our social and environmental footprint and, in the meantime, to drive our growth. RICCARDO SCIUTTO Chief Executive Officer 4 5 00. SERGIO ROSSI IN NUMBERS The main highlights ENVIRONMENTAL 340 TONS OF CO2 AVOIDED THANKS TO THE OPTIMIZATION OF LOGISTICS ACTIVITIES AND TO THE PHOTOVOLTAIC PLANT INSTALLED IN SAN MAURO SOCIAL 26% LOCATED IN THE LOCAL SUPPLIERS EMILIA-ROMAGNA REGION 6,000 PIECES WHICH INCLUDE HISTORICAL AND ICONIC SHOES, ACCESSORIES AND COMPONENTS, EDITORIALS AND ICONOGRAPHIC MATERIAL COLLECTED FOR THE CREATION OF OUR CORPORATE ARCHIVE 3 SITE-SPECIFIC WORKS OF ART EXHIBITED IN OUR FACTORY IN SAN MAURO GOVERNANCE MODEL 231 ESG POLICY 6 7 01 sr REVOLUTION 1.1 SERGIO ROSSI AT A GLANCE Sergio Rossi S.p.A. is an Italian company active in the design, production, distribution and sale of leather shoes and leather accessories for women through its brand Sergio Rossi [102-1; 102-2]. Since its creation, our brand has become a primary reference in the luxury shoemaking sector and is renowned worldwide for its artisanship and for creating iconic models. Over the past 50 years, the Company has fostered its We distribute our products in 14 countries, including directly distinctiveness by enhancing the quality of its materials, the operated stores (DOS) and franchised stores, divided into craftsmanship and elegance of its products and its luxury 4 main geographical markets: Europe and the Middle East allure, which remain the foundations of Sergio Rossi’s unique (EMEA), Asia Pacific (APAC), Japan, and the United States. We style. The Sergio Rossi brand has become synonym of timeless own 48 DOS scattered among these 4 regions, 35 Stores and 13 quality and utmost sophistication and over the decades Outlets as well as 13 franchising stores in the EMEA and APAC our shoes have accompanied countless female leaders and regions. Furthermore, we sell products through our online celebrities in their daily life, from the sidewalk to the red carpet, e-commerce channel, by shipping to 82 countries worldwide enabling them to remain effortlessly chic all day long. Whilst [102-6]. showroom and managerial offices are based in Milan [102-3], The last few years have been a period of profound the fulcrum and the pulsing heart of our production activity is reorganization of our corporate structure and business, a the San Mauro Pascoli factory [102-4], where over 150 skillful factor that has directly influenced our economic performance. artisans and technicians have been hand-crafting Sergio Rossi As a result, , we managed to significantly decrease payments shoes for the past 50 years. The Sergio Rossi factory is the heart to providers of capital and, above all, operating costs. Indeed, and soul of the brand, a place where magic and reality come by taking into account also the EMEA Retail Network, in 2018, together to create handmade shoes for the women of today. we have reached an overall economic value generated equal to The plant, inaugurated in 2003, is equipped to sketch, design, 58.5 million euros [102-7; 201-1]. In addition, considering the develop, industrialize, and produce all types of women’s luxury consolidated revenues, including Sergio Rossi S.p.A. and all its footwear, from flat styles to high heels, as well as to shorten the subsidiaries, 2018 revenues reached 64 million euros, a sign time-to-market in order to timely respond to market demand, of our improved operating efficiency. Our aim for 2019 is to increasingly oriented towards a “see now, buy now” model. achieve 70 million euros of revenues. OUR ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE M. U. 2017 2018 Direct economic value generated: revenues € 55,979,150 58,458,108 Economic value distributed € 61,469,990 53,828,961 –– Operating costs € 41,487,844 35,699,541 –– Employee wages and benefits € 19,549,957 17,706,275 –– Payments to Providers of capital € 214,668 156,394 –– Payments to government € 187,400 221,335 –– Community investments € 30,121 45,416 Economic value retained € -5,490,840 4,629,147 The economic value retained, calculated as the difference *FINANCIAL DATA INCLUDE SERGIO ROSSI SPA AND ALL THE STORES between the direct economic value generated and the OF THE EUROPEAN NETWORK (ITALY AND FRANCE FOR 2017; ITALY, economic value distributed, has significantly increased FRANCE AND UK FOR 2018), WHILE REPORTING SCOPE CONSIDERS JUST shifting from a negative 5.49 million euros at the closure of A STORE SELECTION (SEE THE METHODOLOGICAL NOTE AT PAG. 88 FOR the 2017 financial year to a positive 4.62 million in 2018. FURTHER DETAILS) sr1 PUMP 10 11 The plant, inaugurated in 2003, is equipped to sketch, design, develop, industrialize, and produce all types of women’s luxury footwear, from flat styles to high heels, as well as to shorten the time-to-market in order to timely respond to market demand, increasingly oriented towards a “see now, buy now” model. The Sergio Rossi factory is the heart and soul of the brand, a place where magic and reality come together to create handmade shoes for the women of today. The timeline leading to our corporate new deal 1970s 2000 2015 1950s 1980s 1990s 2015 2018 1950s 1970s 1980s 1990s 2000 2015 2015 2018 Immediately after the end of World War Sergio started joining the Milanese The Company started its expansion age, Sergio Rossi’s philosophy and values In 2005 the Company was fully acquired Investindustrial indirectly acquired II, the young Sergio Rossi, native of the fashion community and soon became the by opening its first monobrand boutique became more defined: women are a by the Kering Group, new owner of Gucci. 100% of Sergio Rossi S.p.A. The San Mauro area, started learning how to point of reference of the most renowned in Ancona, soon followed by Turin, symbol of femininity and forcefulness, While the San Mauro Pascoli factory and acquisition set the beginning of a new make shoes from his father, an artisan fashion stylists, such as Gianni Versace, Florence, Rome, Brussels, New York, given their progressive emancipation the brand philosophy were completely relaunch phase for the brand, focusing on shoemaker, whom he accompanied in with whom he started a collaboration by Los Angeles, and London. It was also and change of status. The shoe, instead, refurbished, a series of well-known innovation in line with traditional codes. his daily working activities. In the midproviding his shoes for catwalk shows. a period of intense collaboration with represented a continuation of the and very talented designers joined the In 2016, Sergio Rossi S.p.A. completed its 50s, Sergio Rossi took over the father’s Swiftly, Sergio Rossi became a renowned some of the most iconic fashion houses woman’s body, a vital element of her company as its creative directors. fusion with Sergio Rossi Manufacturing profession and created his own sandals brand in Italy’s fashion capital and the at an international level, since Sergio character, and heels and shapes became S.r.l., involved in all the shoe production selling them in the Riviera. The Opanca public recognized it as a synonym of Rossi produced shoes for the collections an emblem of taste. Following three activities, while the company started a sandal, which embodied Sergio’s disruptive “Made in Italy” excellence. of haute couture brands like Dolce & decades of continuous economic growth, comprehensive transformation of its creativity, was such a success that in 1951 Gabbana and Azzedine Alaïa. in 1999 the Gucci Group acquired the brand and image. In 2018, new stores are Sergio opened his own company, together Sergio Rossi brand. opened both in Italy and abroad, a clear with his brother, who then became the sign of the positive momentum achieved Company’s Production Director and thanks to the internal reorganization maintained this role for his entire life. and the new brand identity. 14 15 Ownership structure Risk Management and corporate values THE VALUES OF THE Since December 2015, Sergio Rossi S.p.A. is 100% controlled by Absolute Luxury Holding S.r.l., which is indirectly owned by a The Company’s top management is entrusted with all the risk management activities related to corporate operations SERGIO ROSSI GROUP fund managed by Investindustrial. Prior to that, the Company and the supply chain, as well as with the periodic revision of was controlled by the primary international multi-brand Kering their effectiveness. In dialogue with the CEO, the Operations Group, which had acquired it from Mr. Sergio Rossi in 1999 [102Function and the Human Resources Department continuously 10]. In addition, the newly-formed Sergio Rossi S.p.A. entirely controls a series of affiliates and commercial branches located verify compliance of Sergio Rossi with local, national and international environmental and social laws and regulations. As a “We are true to our brand The Group is committed to the highest abroad, namely in the United States, the United Kingdom, France, Japan, Hong Kong and China [102-5] [102-45]. demonstration of the effectiveness of our internal control system, we have committed no legal violations and have not received any and committed ethical standards: sanctions or fines in the reporting period [307-1]. to protect and Corporate In 2018, in line with the goal we set last year and aiming at enhancing our internal controls, we finalized and approved the develop it” INTEGRITY Riccardo Sciutto, governance Organizational, Management and Control Model pursuant to Group CEO. At the heart of the Group’s Code of Conduct. We act with Integrity when doing Italian Legislative Decree 231/2001, both for Sergio Rossi S.p.A. Our governance structure is based on a Board of Directors, and Sergio Rossi Retail S.r.l. comprising eight members, which is entrusted with all the powers to ensure the ordinary and extraordinary management of The gap analysis, carried out within the Organizational Model arrangement, confirmed the absence of significant risks with business and in our working environment. the Company and a Board of Statutory Auditors, comprising three standing statutory auditors and two substitute statutory auditors. respect to all the potential offences identified by the Model itself. In addition, in accordance with Italian legislation, the Model Ethical behavior, accountability and moral An independent auditing firm has also been appointed [102-18]. entails the introduction of a Supervisory Board, in charge of the responsibility are necessary tools for The Board of Directors reflects our new ownership structure, since, following the 2015 acquisition, 6 out of 8 members formally supervision of the functioning and observance of the Model, and of a dedicated whistelblowing channel, which provides a secure maintaining consistency between one's or informally represent Investindustrial in the definition of the corporate strategy and governance. Board members have also tool to all our stakeholders for reporting violations of laws and internal policies. actions and Company's principles in order distributed among themselves a set of key responsibilities in to put the Company’s interest first and to contribute to the well-being of the working order to ensure constant monitoring and correct conduct of corporate operations. In particular, our Chairman, Mr. Morante, is in charge of the legal representation of the Company before any relevant stakeholder, while our CEO, Mr. Sciutto, is responsible environment. for any decision related to economic, social and environmental aspects and sets the Company’s strategic objectives, in dialogue with the Company’s top management. RESPECT Interact with people by using a fair, professional and polite approach due in any respectful interaction between individuals. RESPONSIBILITY Be accountable when doing business, to perform satisfactorily and fulfill obligations in accordance with the Company’s values. LOYALTY Support the Company’s needs and commit to serve Company’ interests first. As regarding internal policies, since 2017, we have adopted a Code of Business Conduct defining a set of core corporate values, norms and principles of behavior, to which all employees of each company belonging to the Sergio Rossi Group must adhere without prejudice to the local law provisions. The Code of Conduct addresses the employees’ responsibilities to the Company, to their colleagues and to their suppliers and customers, and states the Company’s commitment on how the Group does business across the world. The document helps guide employees on how to conduct themselves as representatives of the Sergio Rossi Group, to be sure that all our employees’ behaviors and decisions, both inside and outside the Company, are aligned towards the same principles and thus protect our Company Brand. [102-16]. As of today, the Human Resources Department is entrusted with ensuring the respect of the content of the Code by all the corporate employees. As for internal auditing and control activities, these are conducted by the Board of Statutory Auditors, which also oversees and manages the collection of internal data needed for the appropriate redaction of financial reporting documents. 16 TIMELINE WITH THE 1.2 CLIENT CENTRICITY MOST ICONIC MODELS Starting from 2016, we have been redefining our brand identity and positioning with the aim of rediscovering Sergio Rossi’s original DNA, thus enhancing its renowned craftsmanship and relaunching its #GODIVAPUMP product authenticity. The Godiva Pump is the timeless shoe every woman should own. At first, the process involved the design of our products and portable footwear, diving into the legacy of the brand. by reconnecting to the deepest essence of Sergio Rossi’s sr1 models reinterpreted some of the unique features of distinctive style and innovative design. Concurrently, we our mostly iconic shoes, by supplementing them with an This iconic pump represents a versatile choice, started a digitalization process of our identity capable of channeling the uniqueness of our heritage via a new digital innovative, new romantic twist, linked to the introduction of modern and fresh accessories and shapes. The sr1 slipper, the perfect balance between charming identity. An important part of this path has also been the creation of a corporate archive, essential for rediscovering our the first model introduced, recalled the daily flat shoes that marked the first success of Sergio Rossi, while the sr1 pump femininity and a dynamic attitude. roots and making our clients aware of Sergio Rossi’s history. from Fall Winter (FW) 2017 collection was a tribute to an Finally we began the development of “Retail Excellence”, a historic archive piece inspired by the allure and boldness project, started in 2017 and carried on in 2018, aimed at turning of the 90s’ Supermodels. Accessories also pay tribute to our the shopping occasion into a client-tailored moment and at important heritage, with the emblematic leather tongue creating an emotional and exclusive bond with each client. and its personalized silver plaque that is spread all over the #sr1 sr1 collection. This injection of courage, boldness and lightheartedness into tradition is the new Sergio Rossi’s way of Presented in September 2016 and first approaching design without compromising it, thus leading to The sr1 collection represents the first step of a new beginning the creation of a new kind of modern artisanal masterpiece. introduced to the market in Spring 2017, sr1 for the Company and of the rediscovery of our iconic design. The products are timeless and break free from traditional In fact, the “sr” acronym represents our willingness to and outdated rules – they work from day to night and suit respect and stay focused on Sergio Rossi’s most intimate all places and situations. Versatile creations that swear soon emerged as one of the latest icons for nature, whilst the number “1” stands for this new chapter in our history. With the “sr1” collection, inspired by a 90s model off trends and personalize the elegance of a woman. The sr1 collection was aimed at responding to the tastes of the Sergio Rossi: the square toe, the metal plaque of our corporate archive, we made a fresh start by revisiting the most authentic aesthetics of the brand and providing redefined target customer archetype of Sergio Rossi, who is an entrepreneurial and active woman, instinctively attracted and the leather tongue make this family our contemporary target customer with an interesting by beauty and style. immediately recognizable and gave birth to a complete collection of products recalling the same stylistic codes. #SRMILANO Introduced in FW18 as a return to true femininity, like sr1, srMilano took inspiration from our historical archive. srMilano is inspired by an early 00s sandal and aims at paying a tribute to the city of Milan and the glamour of its women: sophisticated, subtle, and yet impossible not to notice. sr1 PRODUCT FAMILY 19 The new store concept In 2017, following the Sergio Rossi renewed brand identity, we launched the new store concept, designed by Marco Costanzi. The architect conceived a new structure identifying materials, colors and shapes which could perfectly communicate the new brand positioning and exalt the new product collections. Additionally, the interior designer Cristina Celestino designed all the furniture pieces of the new store, taking inspiration from a cultivated and ironic femininity with a contemporary allure and expressly referring to iconic shapes, which made Sergio Rossi renowned all over the world. In 2018, we completed the roll out of the new store concept and we inaugurated the installation of the Abricò chandelier in the newly refurbished Sergio Rossi store in the prestigious Via Montenapoleone in Milan. The furniture has been created by Cristina Celestino exclusively for Sergio Rossi and custom produced by Flos. The name comes from a tropical flower, Abricò, scented and with a vivid rose color. The flower, which inspired the Spring Summer 2018 Sergio Rossi collection, grows on high trees with branches totally covered by flowers with full-bodied petals. SERGIO ROSSI PARIS FLAGSHIP STORE 5 FRANCHISEE IN EUROPE 6 FRANCHISEE IN APAC 2 FRANCHISEE IN MIDDLE EAST ABRICÒ CRISTINA CELESTINO CHANDELIER PIECES OF FURNITURE 48 DOS worldwide 13 Franchisees’ monobrand stores and corners 82 Countries served through e-commerce 20 21 BRAND Digitalizing our identity: “think heritage, play digital” PROTECTION As part of our corporate digitalization strategy, in February 2017, we launched a new corporate website rethinking both the channel retail digitalization strategy entails a series of actions already on track and continuing in the upcoming years. This e-shop and the editorial contents in order to put the focus on was conceived with the aim of making it as flexible as possible, our most iconic products and our artisanal heritage through in order to dynamically respond to market and stakeholder dedicated sections. The renovation of the website represents requests. In particular, the first action of the strategy has been Our brand represents one of Sergio Rossi’s the first, indispensable step in making it a window for our to completely internalize the management of IT processes on a customers and most relevant stakeholders, a platform revealing global scale. As such, we have now full control of the entire IT our renewed corporate strategy and the continuous evolution hardware and software infrastructure needed to perform our most valuable assets and therefore it deof our brand. As such, our corporate website becomes a mirror of our corporate “new deal” and represents a concrete example activities both at a corporate and store level. This will enable us to benefit from a substantial cost reduction and to streamline serves dedicated protection and monitoring. of our strengthened commitment towards sustainability. In our operations in a more harmonized way. Moreover, our addition, we have decided to convey our advertising activities Finance function can now count on a new ERP software, which only through digital channels and concentrate our efforts will allow us to manage all the worldwide financial accounting in communication & PR specifically on social networks like activities from a single platform. In addition, in 2018, we created Instagram and Facebook. This will allow us to achieve a an Omnichannel and Customer Relationship Management Indeed, it is so precious for us to preserve higher measurability of digital advertising performance and the possibility of developing more focused content aimed at (CRM) department, in order to continue the integration of our communication channels through the creation of meaningful our design authenticity and uniqueness addressing specific audience segments. As a result, we can now customer experiences. In fact, our customers are able to buy count over 921,000 followers on Instagram, 53% more than in Sergio Rossi products where it is most convenient for them, that we continue to register the models 2017, 17,800 on Twitter, 314,287 likes on our Facebook page using a variety of different channels, from physical stores and 16,351 subscribers on our newly created Wechat profile – to our online e-commerce platform, in line with our overall all numbers obtained from organic growth, without any paid digitalization strategy. For logistics as well, the IT monitoring belonging to the sr1 collection as well as to advertising campaign or followers acquisition. infrastructure is now under complete governance of the Sergio Rossi headquarters and is fully integrated with our IT system. the new srmilano collection. In addition, In line with the motto introduced by our CEO, “Think heritage, play digital”, as an effort to merge tradition In addition, we have started implementing a series of actions and modernity, in 2017 we started the implementation aimed at ameliorating our cybersecurity profile. A business we carefully work on our trademarks’ of a brand new corporate digitalization strategy, which aims at progressively enhancing our online continuity plan has been put in place, i.e. a series of processes related to the prevention of potential cyber threats such as portfolio to ensure global protection. In presence, while streamlining our internal processes data thefts and to information recovery. Indeed, as a recovery and reducing our environmental impact. measure, we now rely on a server farm managed by a trusted our view, in fact, intellectual property third party, which provides us data storage and back-up services. Such a strategy, which involves all the main business functions Fully integrated with our corporate digitalization strategy, we in a cross-departmental fashion, will contribute to discovering have decided to channel the uniqueness of our brand heritage consists not only in the protection of and exploiting new synergies between them while making their functions more effective. Also developed in 2017, our multivia a new digital identity with a series of interventions, which will be described in the next chapters. our brand, but also in the valuation of how our corporate identity is perceived by our key stakeholders. 314,287 FACEBOOK FANS 921,000 INSTAGRAM FANS 16,351 WECHAT SUBSCRIBERS 17,800 TWITTER FOLLOWERS 23 Advertising Campaigns and Special Digital Projects After the relaunch of the sr1 collection, the first collection to be entirely digitally advertised, our communication focused on our target women’s true lifestyle, dreams and ambitions. The project “srPump Stretched Instants”, aimed at collecting all our most iconic PUMPs by introducing them into women’s everyday-life. The campaign is based on different emotional moments describing woman’s passions, styles and environments. srPUMP STRETCHED INSTANTS 24 In 2018, as part of our cross-channel communication strategy – i.e. channeled on social media, website and through in-store video – we have also launched the “srEstate” project, so as to underline the strong connection between the San Mauro Pascoli district and our Italian roots. The advertising campaign is aimed at emphasizing, through emotional content, the summer in Romagna which has been srESTATE Sergio Rossi’s home for more than 60 years. The story of an Italian summer, the essence of the Italian tradition and lifestyle, has been framed as the key concept. 26 27 120 Instants In line with our commitment to foster both the heritage and know-how that characterizes Sergio Rossi, in 2018, we launched the 120 instants, a social communication campaign featuring the creation of a shoe from the sketch to the packaging phase. The number reflects the 120 steps needed to make a pair of shoes, an end to end process, entirely made in our factory in San Mauro Pascoli. The mini video clips have been shot using macro images of the materials, the actual artisans during their daily activities as well as some scenes from the archive to give the audience the exact feeling and emotion of the manufacturing process. The choice of shooting mini clips instead of one single video has a precise meaning: to make a Sergio Rossi shoe, every moment has its importance, everything should be perfect, from the very beginning through all the steps. Every step is a crucial moment with its own story, expertise, soul. The project’s goal is indeed to value the Italian know-how of Sergio Rossi’s manufacturing process where the factory is the place, the artisans are the characters, the materials and technologies are the ingredients of these magic creations. ARTISAN AT WORK AND THE CREATION PROCESS 28 29 2018 DIGITAL CONTENTS Creating a new client experience Client satisfaction In 2018 we carried forward the “Retail Excellence”, a project With the aim of monitoring and measuring the performance of started in 2017 aimed at turning the shopping experience into our digitalization strategy and its effects on final clients, we have a client-tailored moment and at creating an emotional and introduced a new service intended only for final customers called exclusive bond with each client. Client Service Management (CSM). The key starting point of the project has been the Clients, directly from our web site, can contact Sergio Rossi for implementation of the sr Academy and the Sergio Rossi Selling any information or assistance they might need, ranging from Ceremony workshop week, conducted in Milan, Paris, London requests on our products to suggestions to further improve their and Hong Kong and delivered to all store managers and staff, in overall Sergio Rossi experience, or any complaint or repairing order to spread harmonious habits and to enhance their sales request. competences. The aim of the sr Academy is twofold: the first one is that of training and coaching the store staff all around This service completes our already existing Aftersale Service the world to create coherence between production, product, specifically dedicated to our Retail and Wholesale customers, sales and communication; moreover, the store personnel which provides total assistance for any issues from Operational studies how to adapt to different requests and situations in a information to claims on product defects. We typically manage proactive manner and how to build up a commercial mindset quality returns either by repairing the product or by reimbursing by using their product knowledge in the most personalized way. the customer; at present, the percentage of quality claims is below Furthermore, we started collaborating with big international 1% of pairs shipped. fashion e-tailers, connecting shoppers to stores and brands We value so much our products and customers that in certain from all around the world, and with other e-shop websites and cases we offer a customized service related to spare part marketplaces, in order to reach even more clients and offer replacements (such as heels or small accessories), whether it is them an even wider online experience. a production problem or an issue related to the client’s misuse of In 2018 we focused on personal relationships with our clients the product. In particular, clients can rely on local Sergio Rossi by fostering the development of empathy towards clients in boutiques to take care of the issue by interacting with the factory order to further understand their needs and desires. An integral and local artisans in order to help solve the problem. part of this approach is the launch of an app that supports store personnel in creating and managing long lasting, high Such service demonstrates our willingness to offer a customized value relationships with clients, through direct, personalized and solid response to clients’ requests, who care and wish to keep and bidirectional conversations. The app aims at building their pair, as well as our approach to lengthen the life cycle of the personalized relations with our clients worldwide, helping product through maintenance activities, by adopting a circular store personnel in managing contact information and requests. economic outlook. BEYONCÉ Women we love collaborations with style icons In order to expand our audience and communicate the new brand positioning to more target customers, we implemented several collaborations between Sergio Rossi and key opinion leaders as well as celebrities worldwide. In 2018 we continued designing personalized collections for singers and pop stars including Beyoncé and Rihanna, and dressed actresses as such as Julia Roberts and Nicole Kidman. For Beyoncé, for instance, our talented designers and expert artisans have developed a series of custom-made boots aimed at accompanying the singer during her “On the Run II” worldwide tour in 2018. JULIA ROBERTS NICOLE KIDMAN sr1 PRODUCTS IN STORE 32 33 #yourownsergiorossi Our customers have the opportunity to enjoy #yourownsergiorossi, a service enabling them to create their own sr1 model. The customization service is another crucial step in the personalization of the customer experience that gives clients the unique opportunity to create their own Sergio Rossi shoes. Our San Mauro Pascoli factory is uniquely equipped to offer our clients from all around the world the chance to fully personalize their favorite pair of shoes, by selecting materials, colors, accessories, sizes and initials, and to receive them within just 4-5 weeks, regardless of their physical location. Crucially, such customization features are available both online and in-store, given the presence of our in-store tablets. In March 2018, after the iconic sr1 slipper, the first protagonist of the #yourownsergiorossi project, the customization option has been extended to sr1 pump. Beginning in November 2018 the offer was completed with the introduction of the sr1 Running style. We keep working to constantly expand the personalization possibilities available to our customers, by introducing new products and elements. 34 35 1.3 OUR COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABILITY Materiality Matrix Given the importance of sustainability, in 2018 we have further strengthened our commitment by formalizing our first Group CREATIVITY, DESIGN AND PROTECTION OF THE CLIENT SATISFACTION ARTISANAL KNOW-HOW Sustainability Policy. The document is the result of a cross-functional process which engaged the management of Sergio Rossi and analyzed TRACEABILITY AND TRANSPARENCY ALONG THE internal and external sources regarding sustainability issues. It outlines SUPPLY CHAIN ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE what Sustainability is to Sergio Rossi by underlining the link with our founding corporate values and defines the three main strategic USE OF SUSTAINABLE RAW REDUCTION OF GHG RELEVANCE FOR STAKEHOLDERS MATERIALS AND PACKAGING EMISSIONS areas – pillars – that are at the core of our approach to managing a responsible business. CONTRIBUTION TO LOCAL DEVELOPMENT BUSINESS ETHICS As expressed in the Policy, “Sustainability” for Sergio Rossi To ensure the achievement of its main strategic objectives, means being able to pursue quality and artisanal excellence while Sergio Rossi’s Chief Executive Officer is also responsible for REMUNERATION fostering environmental protection and social responsibility. the activities related to sustainability and coordinates the AND WELFARE LEGAL COMPLIANCE Therefore, we undertake to conduct business responsibly Sustainability Committee, an inter-functional management DIVERSITY AND EQUAL through the integration of economic, environmental, and social working group, established in 2017. The Sustainability OPPORTUNITIES aspects within all business processes and functions and by setting Committee was involved in several activities in 2018, namely dedicated short and long-term goals intended to progressively the definition of the Sustainability Policy, the analysis of EMPLOYEE HEALTH improve our corporate sustainability performance. stakeholders’ requests, the periodic revision of the materiality AND SAFETY REDUCTION AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY map and the development of the Sustainability Report. PREVENTION OF WASTE PRODUCTION These goals are established in accordance with the United Nations Furthermore, Sergio Rossi’s CEO oversees the decision-making TALENT ATTRACTION and supervision of internal health, safety and environmental AND RETENTION Global Compact (UNGC), of which Sergio Rossi is a member, and with (HSE) aspects. In this respect, the CEO appoints those the 17 Sustainable Development responsible for the correct implementation of HSE actions and legal compliance. Additionally, the CEO coordinates Goals (SDGs) of the 2030 Agenda the activities of the Human Resources & Facility and the for Sustainable Development. Operations Functions, which are entrusted with the execution of HSE actions and the continuous assessment and monitoring PROTECTION OF As such, we are strongly committed to conducting business HYDRIC RESOURCES legally and in accordance with the highest ethical standards, of the related environmental, economic and social impacts. by actively working against all forms of corruption, including Furthermore, the CEO periodically reports to the board extortion and bribery. Sergio Rossi will not limit its efforts on about the state of such activities, potential expenditure needs sustainability goals to its operations but, when feasible, will related to HSE aspects, and formally reviews and approves collaborate with its business partners along the supply chain to the organization’s sustainability report. In case the Human cover the entire life cycle of its products. Resources & Facility and the Operations Functions detect any critical concerns related to HSE, they report these to the CEO. RELEVANCE FOR SERGIO ROSSI These efforts are guided by Sergio Rossi’s distinctive Once having carefully analyzed the matter, the CEO determines values, as highlighted in the Group’s Code of Conduct: the corrective actions to be implemented and appoints the Integrity, Respect, Responsibility and Loyalty. respective people in charge. Furthermore, as presented below, we identified our three Sergio Rossi’s commitment is not limited to the three strategic main strategic pillars which represent our primary areas of areas highlighted in the Policy but includes other pivotal topics As reported above, the 13 topics above the curve were Energy commitment for the coming years. in order to create long-term value for all our stakeholders. considered to be material in 2018. The topics shown on the Human Capital These matters were, in fact, mapped during the process for top-right quadrant correspond to the most relevant issues Local Communities defining our Sustainability Strategy together with the updating both for the Company and for our stakeholders [102-47]. Business Responsibility and ENERGY CHAPTER 3 CHAPTER 2 CHAPTER 4 Efficient and responsible use of energy resources of the materiality analysis. In line with previous years, the Furthermore, we have associated each topic with the three Economic Performance Corporate carbon footprint and GHG materiality matrix shows the most relevant topics that reflect sustainability pillars included in our Sustainability Policy and emissions minimization Non-Material Sergio Rossi’s economic, environmental and social impacts with an additional area, “Business responsibility and economic HUMAN Training activities for personal development and/or may influence the decisions of the key stakeholders performance”, which we consider as a precondition for the Attraction and retention of best talents identified. correct management of our company CAPITAL Welfare and health and safety LOCAL Preserve local artisanal traditions Quality of living and socio-economic COMMUNITIES development of local communities Philantrophic activities 36 37 MATERIAL TOPIC OUR COMMITTMENT WHERE WE TALK ABOUT IT MATERIAL TOPIC OUR COMMITTMENT WHERE WE TALK ABOUT IT SUSTAINABILITY PILLAR: ENERGY BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Reduction of GHG emissions We are strengthening our efforts to reduce §4.1 The responsible use of energy Business Ethics We firmly believe that an ethical business is §1.1 Sergio Rossi at a glance the current levels of our GHG emissions, for resources for emissions reduction a successful business. This is why we have what concerns our energy consumption. redefined our internal Code of Conducts Our photovoltaic plant represents a and management of corporate values. good example of our commitment in this direction. Legal compliance We have a strong commitment with §3.1 Artisanal maestria in San Mauro Pascoli respect to national and international legal Energy efficiency Aware that energy consumption plays a dispositions regarding eco-toxicological key role in our environmental footprint, §4.1 The responsible use of energy requirements for the raw materials we we strive to identify and implement energy resources for emissions reduction use in our production process, in order efficiency initiatives in all our facilities and to guarantee the maximum safety for operations. customers and the environment. That’s why in the reporting period, we have committed no legal violations and have SUSTAINABILITY PILLAR: HUMAN CAPITAL not received any sanction or fine, having usually exceeded mandatory norms. Remuneration and welfare Maximizing the welfare of our employees is §2.2 Promoting a better working life one of our key goals. We have structured Economic performance A solid and sustainable economic §1.1 Sergio Rossi at a glance dedicated plans to ensure that our performance is a necessary element to facilities are constantly motivating working ensure our growth as well as the appropriate environments. In the same vein, we also management of sustainability aspects. consider equal remuneration, regardless Therefore, we take care to maximize the of gender and any kind of diversity, as economic value we generate, with the aim a strategic factor that brings significant of benefiting both our shareholders and benefits, not only for our people but also the local community. for the whole company. Use of sustainable raw materials and We devote the utmost attention to §3.1 Artisanal maestria in San Mauro Pascoli Employee health and safety Ensuring the health and safety of our §2.2 Promoting a better working life packaging make sure that our raw materials and employees constitutes the basis of our packaging are sustainably sourced, in production process. In order to make our order to guarantee the quality and safety plant a 100% safe working environment, we of our products and to minimize our always exceed the legal requirements, and environmental and social impacts. invest in the training and development of our people. Client satisfaction We are committed to deliver an outstanding §1.2 Client centricity client experience focused on the creation Talent attraction and retention We are convinced that the attraction and §2.1 Investing in the artisans of tomorrow of solid and long-lasting emotional bonds retention of the best talent constitutes with our customers, who represent the the fuel of our economic development. As focus of our activities and our main such, we collaborate with renowned actors interlocutor. located in San Mauro Pascoli to attract and train the next generation of artisans. SUSTAINABILITY PILLAR: LOCAL COMMUNITIES Contribution to local development The bulk of our economic activity takes §1.1 Sergio Rossi at a glance place in the San Mauro district, recognized §2.1 Investing in the artisans of tomorrow at a global level as an area of luxury §3.1 Artisanal maestria in San Mauro Pascoli shoemaking excellence. Given the close relationships we have built with local actors and communities, we devote our interest to promote their growth and welfare and we often collaborate for the development of mutually useful solutions. Creativity, design and protection of the Creativity, design and artisanal excellence §1.2 Client centricity artisanal know-how constitute the distinctive elements that §3.1 Artisanal maestria in San Mauro Pascoli make our products elegant and timeless. We consider it our duty both to foster and safeguard our know-how and the uniqueness one of the San Mauro district. Traceability and transparency along the We acknowledge the importance of §3.1 Artisanal maestria in San Mauro Pascoli supply chain ensuring the utmost transparency along our supply chain, in order to guarantee the quality of our Made in Italy products and to ensure the respect of environmental and social issues. This is why we carefully select and evaluate our suppliers, most of which have collaborated with us for a long time, FOR FURTHER DETAILS ON THE PROCESS in a climate of mutual trust. FOR UPDATING THE MATERIALITY ANALYSIS, PLEASE REFER TO CHAPTER “METHODOLOGICAL NOTE”. 38 39 02 HUMAN CAPITAL Preserving the value of our people SUSTAINABILITY POLICY “Convinced that human capital represents an invaluable 2.1 INVESTING IN THE ARTISANS OF TOMORROW resource for the company, Sergio Rossi aims to offer a positive and stimulating working environment, in order to motivate all its employees by developing their artisanal and We constantly strive to cultivate our corporate culture based on the managerial skills. Moreover, Sergio Rossi aims to ensure employees’ welfare, health and safety in excess of normative concept of employee empowerment and growth. In Sergio Rossi we requirements, intended to guarantee they benefit from a constructive and safe workplace that meets everyone’s needs.” actively promote an inclusive environment and value the contributions of all the people that commit every day to the success of our brand. KEY COMMITMENTS OF THE POLICY To implement training activities aimed at fostering the In 2018 we continued working on our corporate structure by Furthermore, most of our employees (86%) are employed technical, managerial and personal development of all its reviewing internal functions and increasing the number of in our corporate offices and production site in San Mauro employees. employees in strategic areas, thus consolidating the corporate Pascoli, Italy, while the remaining 14%, work in our stores To ensure a stimulating and innovative working environment relaunch started in 2015. In 2018, in particular, we focused on across the EMEA Retail Network. in order to attract and retain the best talent. strengthening the training and communication departments by creating new dedicated functions. Our commitment to In line with previous years, we have continued investing in MAIN RESULTS fostering everyone’s potential and skills will continue in 2019 new hires and registered 63 new employees in 2018, with a rate 304 employees as of 31 December 2018 with the introduction of two new additional retail training of 21.4% mainly connected to the creation of new corporate 63% of our employees are women and 37% are men functions in China and Japan. Finally, we introduced the roles and the opening of new stores. The process has been Approximately 90% of our employees have a permanent contract Omnichannel and CRM department with the aim of further accompanied by a corresponding increase in the turnover rate, Under 30 y.o. hires have doubled compared to 2017 improving our presence and efficacy across all media channels, shifting from 19.9% in 2017 to 23.1% in 2018 [401-1], partially with a focus on e-commerce. due to several retirements in 2018 and to the typical turnover rates that characterize the retail sector. Such changes in LINK WITH SDGs As of 31 December 2018 we employed a total of 304 people, the workforce are connected to our internal restructuring, of which 293 were based in Italy and 11 in our store network managed by our Human Resources & Facility function, which in France and the UK [102-8]. The number of employees in the last two years has led to the creation of new functions confirms a steady growth of the company, with an increase and specialized roles, to respond more effectively to market in employees of 3.4% since last year and even higher growth trends and client expectations. (+10.9%) compared to 2016. In particular, we would like to A comprehensive breakdown of our employees in terms of stress how the number of female employees has grown from employment contract and type, geography, gender and age is 167 in 2016 to 190 in 2018, equivalent to +13.8% in two years. provided in the following pages. 304 Moreover, we have continued increasing our proportion of employees under 30 (from 15 people in 2016 to 32 in 2018), while registering a decrease (-8.6%) in employees aged 50 and EMPLOYEE DISTRIBUTION AS OF 31 DECEMBER above, mainly as a result of retirement of the workforce. These latter trends demonstrate our commitment to attract young talent and to support our employees as their career EMPLOYEES come to an end, particularly considering our high levels of 63% 37% retention. 14% In line with to our commitment to create lasting relationships with our employees, in 2018, 91.4% of our employees held permanent contracts and 89.8% were employed on a full-time basis: 96.8% of employees who work on a part-time contract 86% WOMEN MEN are women. In addition, all of our employees in Italy and 90% France (equal to 97,7% of the total workforce) are covered by collective bargaining agreements, as required by the respective country laws. For employees working in the UK, corporate offices and production site national contracts are applied [102-41]. EMEA Retail Network (Italy, France & UK) PERMANENT CONTRACT <30 HIRES HAVE DOUBLED YEARS OLD 42 43 EMPLOYEES BY CONTRACT TYPE AND GENDER EMPLOYEES BY CONTRACT TYPE AND GENDER WOMEN WOMEN permanent contract full-time contract temporary contract part-time contract MEN MEN permanent contract full-time contract temporary contract part-time contract 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 EMPLOYEES BY CONTRACT TYPE AND REGION EMPLOYEES BY OTHER CONTRACT TYPE ITALY permanent contract temporary contract FRANCE + UK interns permanent contract agency workers temporary contract total workforce 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES (AS OF 31 DECEMBER) (AS OF 31 DECEMBER) 44 45 EMPLOYEES BY AGE NEW EMPLOYEES HIRES BY GENDER AND AGE MEN WOMEN < 30 years 30< x <50 < 30 years >50 years 30< x <50 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 >50 years NEW HIRES RATE 2016 2017 2018 NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES (AS OF 31 DECEMBER) (AS OF 31 DECEMBER) 46 47 TERMINATIONS BY GENDER AND AGE Talent attraction and retention Firmly convinced that the success of our iconic models is rooted which will see the engagement of 15 young participants, 5 of in a stimulating and inclusive working environment, we strive which we plan to train in our facility. The second edition will to attract the best talent and to encourage people in developing in fact be carried out together with other shoe companies in innovative and creative ideas and solutions. the San Mauro District, with the objective of creating a shared MEN WOMEN program in the area. Since artisanal excellence is one of our distinctive attributes, in In line with last year, CERCAL, besides recommending its 2018 we continued investing in the development of talents by best students for potential internships within our Company, strengthening our partnership with CERCAL, one of the most has recently started providing specific courses for people renowned professional shoemaking schools in Italy. with disabilities and without any work experience, who, after having learned traditional shoemaking techniques, will Building on the activities put in place in the past become employable. two years, we renewed our participation in the Given the importance we recognize of attracting the best “Shoes Academy” program, an initiative that talent, we maintained our global referral program in 2018, connects unemployed young people with local shoe which enables employees to inform the recruiting team of manufacturers, through a dedicated internship potential candidates for current and future job openings. In scheme. case a referred person is hired and successfully completes a probation period of 6 months, the referring employee is The program aims to create professionals in the luxury entitled to receive a financial reward, which is proportional to shoemaking sector with the ability to contribute to all phases the rank of the newly-hired person. of production, from cutting to the preparation of the final product; the course entails 600 hours of training, of which In line with previous years, about 70% of our 366 hours are theoretical-practical lessons in class and in the technicians and artisans have stayed with us for < 30 years laboratory and 234 hours are spent undertaking an internship more than 10 years, confirming our ability to create 30< x <50 in a shoe manufacturer company. The project aims not only a positive environment and to retain highly skilled >50 years to train potential employees, but also to value the artisanal workers. expertise and the art of luxury shoemaking. The project, which 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 involved 12 participants in 2018, proved extremely successful Considering our total employees (304), almost half of them have and led us to hire 4 of the participating students. Following the worked at Sergio Rossi for more than 10 years, demonstrating success of the initiative, we planned a second edition for 2019 the effectiveness of our programs dedicated to our staff. TURNOVER RATE EMPLOYEES RETENTION (TECHNICIANS AND ARTISANS) 2016 2017 2018 NUMBER OF YEARS OF EMPLOYMENT 19.5% 0-5 11.0% 6-10 20.1% 11-15 27.3% 16-20 16.9% 21-25 2% 26-30 [401-1] NOTE: THE NEW HIRES RATE AND THE TURNOVER RATE 3.2% < 30 ARE CALCULATED AS NUMBER OF NEW HIRES OR TERMINATIONS / TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES AT 31ST DECEMBER OF THE PREVIOUS YEAR. 2016 RATES DO NOT TAKE INTO ACCOUNT THE EMEA RETAIL NETWORK, SINCE IT WAS NOT INCLUDED IN THE PREVIOUS YEARS’ SCOPE OF REPORTING. 48 49 Training Programs AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING BY GENDER Sergio Rossi has structured specific training programs aimed As training programs are constantly updated, especially in at developing everyone’s professional and personal skills. the technical and production area, in 2018, in parallel with Each new hire, in particular, receives training related to the our job rotation program (for more information refer to the requirements of our business activities and to our corporate § 3.1 Artisanal Maestria in San Mauro Pascoli), we included values and policies, which enable us to respect our legal duties. a specific training package consisting of a series of modules The training package includes our Code of Business Conduct, tailored to particular needs: 5 artisans dedicated to the finishing which is aimed at spreading the knowledge of our corporate of products, for instance, were involved in a technical course principles as well as the conduct our employees are required of retouching for a total of 32 hours. The course was held by to maintain when exposed to potential conflicts of interest, a CERCAL professor, specialized in finishing techniques for bribery and corruption or gift occurrences. Furthermore, the footwear products and leather goods. Retouching may be needed package includes our internal policies, representing another in the final phase of production if minimal color imperfections key part of the standard training. and smudges are detected during products’ inspections. women New employees are subsequently welcomed into the Sergio As a result, the number of per capita training hours men Rossi world with a training program including a presentation provided to our employees has increased in the last group of the brand history and describing the uniqueness of our two years, from 4.7 in 2016 to 12.1 in 2018 (+157%). In production site in San Mauro. Furthermore, Sales teams line with the per capita increase, total hours of training 2016 2017 2018 receive additional sessions highlighting the features of the have reached 3.663 hours in 2018, +21.4% compared communication and marketing activities, in line with our to 2017 [404-1]. digital strategy, as well as specific training courses dedicated to our craftsmanship and materials’ quality. They learn the Regarding the average training hours by employee category, in TOTAL NUMBER OF HOURS OF TRAINING characteristics of our retail network and clienteling activities, 2018 we have registered an increase of activities for managers with a particular focus on the main in-store activities they may and white collar employees, the same categories which in 2017 be entrusted with and the new commercial channels we have had lower training hours compared to other employee groups. recently launched for specific training on product collection. The data highlights our commitment to engage and train, over Training and coaching activities in store and in the classroom time, all categories of our employees. Training activities include are supplemented with regular interactive training activities English courses, sessions related to the corporate culture as on the brand’s own eLearning platform that keeps all Retail well as to health and safety aspects. Training programs are sales staff up to date. constantly updated according to departments’ specific needs, market requests and new requirements. In 2018 we also started the “making of” project, a training program designed to teach employees the In 2018 we also launched a new program, the “sr complete shoemaking process, during which each head Ambassador”, specifically designed for the Retail of department showed the main steps of production Network employees, with the objective to train, to the employees and assisted them in performing the engage and reward our people. tasks. 2016 2017 2018 The program consists of different tasks assigned to employees The course is aimed at employees that do not work in production based on role and type of store; every task performed, such to give them the opportunity to fully understand the process as e-learning courses, CRM activities or the achivement of AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING BY EMPLOYEE CATEGORY behind the creation of Sergio Rossi shoes. 10 people undertook sales KPI’s, grant points to obtain rewards. Based on the the “making of” project in 2018. level reached, employees can gain gifts, vouchers for leisure activities and even the opportunity to experience working Considering our increasing focus on digital transformation, in a different store or country. Overall guidelines have been in 2018 the company IT Manager started a specialization established globally but the tasks rewarded may be adapted to course in “Innovation Strategy and Digital Transformation” local needs or to specific market requests. which has the objective to illustrate the competitive advantage that companies can gain through digitalization. In All the aforementioned initiatives have contributed to particular it addresses, amongst the many, the topics of digital further strengthening not only our corporate culture and the transformation, business intelligence, customer centricity, big synergies existing between our internal functions, but also our data and cyber risks. employees’ professional skills. 2016 2017 2018 Executives Managers NOTE: 2016 DATA DOES White Collars NOT INCLUDE TRAINING Blue collars HOURS FROM EMEA RETAIL Group NETWORK. 50 51 Performance Appraisal 2.2 PROMOTING A BETTER WORKING LIFE We believe that one of the most important aspects of retaining In 2018 we maintained the existing commission scheme for the best talents is an equal and fair evaluation of employees’ store employees, with the intention of rewarding performance performance. For this reason, each employee sets and updates annual targets during a dedicated meeting with his/her by allocating benefits at an individual level, instead of merely at a store level, as was previously the case. To nurture a positive work environment, we invest the utmost supervisor, depending on his/her rank and seniority. During The updated scheme is intended to boost the individual and attention to the quality of employees’ working life, a crucial element the year, supervisors define a set of milestones to be achieved collective performance, given that employees could receive by their supervisees and carefully monitor their progress both an individual and a pooled commission. It is also designed to maintain our corporate reputation and reach economic results. through continuous coaching activities. Supervisors are open to listening to employees’ requests and try to satisfy these, when to encourage personal commitment and motivation. As of today, the new commission scheme has been adopted in the Indeed, we are proactively managing the health, safety and welfare appropriate. Given the positive results of the “Calibration of talents” started last year, we have continued holding an annual EMEA and APAC regions and it was extended to Japan in 2018. aspects linked to the life of our people, and in the past few years we meeting of all directors, aimed at sharing feedback about the In 2018 we continued the sr1 Awards, Sergio Rossi have been introducing a series of brand new initiatives enabling us to overall performance of their team, highlighting best practices worldwide retail competition specifically targeting inand model behaviors to be potentially replicated across the store employees and designed to highlight and reward better address these matters, with a specific focus on the San Mauro the best performers of the year. organization. Pascoli working environment. Moreover, we continued to apply our Management By In particular, the winners of the contest were: Objective (MBO) policy, intended to establish a set of In San Mauro, health and safety aspects are directly managed by shared rules regarding individual performance, target The employee who sold the most pairs of the sr1 collection our Facility Function, responsible for monitoring activities as definition and appraisal criteria, as well as bonus in our 3 main geographical areas (Europe and USA, APAC and well as implementing a comprehensive set of health and safety distribution schemes. Japan). For each of these areas, the winner received a 4-day trip activities aimed at maximizing the protection we guarantee in Italy, during the Milan Fashion Show in February 2019, and to our employees, often by exceeding standard requirements. Bonuses, in particular, are distributed based on the Company’s had the opportunity to visit our plant in San Mauro Pascoli. The team is also in charge of reporting health and safety and individuals’ achievement of pre-determined targets, agreed The Worldwide Best sr1 Store that sold the highest performance on a monthly basis and of transmitting it to an with their supervisors. We introduced also the MBO + C policy percentage of pairs of sr1 Collection on the total sales. The evaluation team, including the CEO, the Chief Operating Officer specifically addressed to sales positions: the basic concept is the best store worldwide received a customized sr1 limited and the Production Director, in order to highlight how the safety same as per the MBO, but with a strong focus on individual targets. edition for each member of the store. performance of our employees is evolving. In early 2017 we put in place a yearly check of the correct functioning of the aspiration system of powders and solvents within the San Mauro factory, which led to a satisfactory result with no detection of malfunctioning. In 2018, we introduced a vending solution for personal protective equipment (PPE). The new system will help safety managers to oversee the correct use of PPE thus increasing the awareness of their correct use. We registered 5 injuries in 2018, which is equal to a 38% reduction compared to 2017. In line with previous years, no injuries were categorized as “high-consequence” as they did not result in a fatality or in an injury from which the worker could not expect to recover fully to pre-injury health status within 6 months [403-9]. EMPLOYEES’ WORK-RELATED INJURIES NUMBER / RATE 2016 2017 2018 Total number of recordable 6 8 5 work-related injuries of which high-consequence work-related injuries 0 0 0 Rate Recordable work-related 14.2 9.5 10.7 injuries rate High-consequence workrelated injuries rate [403-9:2018] NOTE: RECORDABLE WORK-RELATED INJURIES RATE IS CALCULATED AS THE NUMBER OF RECORDABLE WORKRELATED INJURIES / NUMBER OF HOURS WORKED MULTIPLIED BY 1,000,000. HIGH-CONSEQUENCE WORK-RELATED INJURIES RATE IS CALCULATED AS THE NUMBER OF HIGH-CONSEQUENCE WORK-RELATED INJURIES / NUMBER OF HOURS WORKED MULTIPLIED BY 1,000,000. 52 53 In relation to employee welfare, in 2018 we launched a new As such, Workplace is mainly devoted to spreading the energy system for senior and middle managers which enables them to amongst the Sergio Rossi community, and it can be considered a convert the full amount of their bonus, thus exempt from taxes, social device with which employees may update their professional directly into welfare services, such as leisure activities, courses, news and photographs and share them with their peers in Italy sports, elderly care, supplementary pension, etc. Moreover, a and abroad. Ultimately, the growth of the use of this platform may second reward with similar characteristics has been defined and foster the development of new corporate welfare initiatives and it is connected to the business results of the year. enhance opinions and ideas-sharing at all levels. In line with our corporate digitalization strategy, we have As such, we are continuously focused on evaluating new digital continued studying the adoption of new features available in HR tools which could simplify internal procedures among all company management software, to increasingly make our internal crossfunctions. functional activities easier. In the past years we started introducing new digital solutions for Finally, regarding parental leave, the number of employees our employees, such as Pagheweb and Workplace. In particular benefitting from maternity or paternity leave has been almost Workplace is an interactive internal platform that facilitates constant compared to 2017 (from a total of 31 to 27 in 2018). All more transparent and direct communication of activities, events employees who ended their mandatory parental leave returned to or campaigns, covering the entire Sergio Rossi global network. work in 2018, besides two people who have yet to complete it [401-3]. PARENTAL LEAVE 2016 2017 2018 Employees entitled to benefit from maternity leave 164 127 144 Employees entitled to benefit from paternity leave 105 109 114 Total employees entitled to benefit from parental leave 269 236 258 Number of employees who have benefited from maternity leave 21 26 20 Number of employees who have benefited from paternity leave 2 5 7 Total employees who have benefited from parental leave 23 31 27 Of which: number of employees who have benefited also from a flexible distribution of voluntary 15 25 19 maternity leave Of which: number of employees who have benefited also from a flexible distribution of voluntary 1 5 5 paternity leave Of which: number of employees who returned after their maternity leave 21 26 18 Of which: number of employees who returned after their paternity leave 2 5 2 Of which: number of employees who returned after their mandatory paternal leave 23 31 20 Number of employees retained 12 months after returning to work following a period of maternity leave 21 26 18 Number of employees retained 12 months after returning to work following a period of paternity leave 2 4 7 Total employees retained 12 months after returning to work following a period of parental leave 23 30 25 ARTISANS AT WORK 54 55 03 LOCAL COMMUNITIES Fostering local districts SUSTAINABILITY POLICY “Sergio Rossi is highly committed to promoting the growth, 3.1 ARTISANAL MAESTRIA IN SAN MAURO PASCOLI cultural development and welfare of the San Mauro Pascoli territory, where it concentrates its business activity, by involving the population and local stakeholders in the creation Artisanal production, of new opportunities and initiatives based on local needs and expectations.” worldwide distribution Since the early 20th century, the art of shoemaking has always KEY COMMITMENTS OF THE POLICY been associated with the concept of Made in Italy. To preserve the local artisanal tradition. Indeed, the capability of entwining beauty and functionality in To contribute to enhancing the quality of living and the sociodaily use objects is a unique feature of Italian artisans, who have economic development of local communities where the always put their genius at the service of their clients with the Company operates. genuine ambition of creating works of art capable of making their To implement philanthropic activities in line with Company’s owners stand out from the crowd. values and objectives. This unmatched “maestria” has been fully internalized by Sergio Rossi since its foundation. Famously, our founder used to say that MAIN RESULTS “the comfort of a shoe comes from its shape. I maybe made no more than ten and they are what I cherish the most. Each shape 26% of our suppliers are located in the Emilia-Romagna region, is a part of me”, demonstrating his attachment to the purest act of 85% of which are in the same province of San Mauro Pascoli artistic creation. 1,500 pairs daily production capacity 100% of our raw material and component suppliers are Italian Nowadays, we still feel the responsibility not only to keep alive 50% of the cutting activity takes place in house the art of shoemaking but also to leverage this tradition as a means to foster the development of the community and the LINK WITH SDGs district in which we operate. That is the reason why the vision of Mr. Sergio Rossi is still vivid in San Mauro Pascoli, thanks to the presence of over 150 artisans and technicians, who make our Company an internationally renowned example of excellence by daily employing their skills and know-how to create unique masterpieces. 26% SUPPLIERS LOCATED 100% RAW MATERIAL AND COMPONENT IN EMILIA-ROMAGNA ITALIAN SUPPLIERS 1,500 PAIRS DAILY PRODUCTION 50% IN HOUSE CUTTING CAPACITY ACTIVITY ARTISANS AT WORK 58 59 The fulcrum of our commitment: PRODUCTION STEPS the Magic Kingdom Within the factory, our Magic Kingdom, we are able to carry teams of experienced and young artisans, since it requires a deep CUTTING out projects from the designer’s sketch to the realization of the knowledge of leather and materials to maintain high product finished product, undergoing all stages of development. quality while reducing waste. By doing so, we ensure to pass on This process is based on automated The plant comprises a factory equipped with 2 production lines and 2 warehouses, storing bottoms, leather and accessories, the the know-how from generation to generation, while spreading a sustainability mindset among our artisans. cutting machines, hollow cutters as prototype department and a logistic hub 11,700sm large, capable well as highly-skilled cutters, able of dispatching up to 5,000 pairs of shoes per day all over the world. The introduction and the consolidation of young talented to perform this operation manually, artisans is the leitmotiv of the improvement of our manufacturing as their experience enables them to Together with the engineering skills, the factory is processes, not only related to cutting phases but to all processes. extract the best from a leather piece. vertically integrated to all production stages: from For this reason, we have created specific training for young Cutting to Assembling. It has a production capacity of employees working in production and technical areas. Therefore, all prototype samples and about 1,500 pairs a day, choosing from the range of This commitment is also enhanced by the collaboration with special pairs are always cut manually. nearly 400 models and over 2,000 SKUs. Nearly 80% CERCAL, thanks to which we ensure an adequate generational of our products are made in San Mauro Pascoli. turnover (for more information, please see §2. Preserving the value of our people). Decades of accumulated know-how combined with our focus on Moreover, in 2018 we continued the job rotation scheme between constant innovation: indeed, Sergio Rossi’s strategic approach different production functions and “training on the job” activities, SEAMING can be considered similar to a startup’s, despite the Company’s dedicated to the use of specific machinery and equipment. In long history. Our Research & Style function, for example, is this way our technicians and artisans, besides improving their All the upper parts coming from the constantly working to develop new prototypes and shapes. technical abilities, can gain a comprehensive and interconnected previous cutting phase are sewn We are particularly proud of these figures, since they highlight vision of all phases of the engineering process. This commitment together thanks to the expertise of the fact that we maintain almost complete ownership over our production activity. Furthermore, as an additional value add, is also enhanced by our collaboration with CERCAL (for more information, please see §2. Preserving the value of our people). hand-sewing operators. Often, at the centralization of shoe production in San Mauro Pascoli Both the internalization of our sneaker collection and of cutting this point specific accessories, such guarantees the excellence of the Made in Italy savoir faire. phases allow us not only to enhance the technical competence as buckles, stones or embroideries, of our artisans, thus limiting collaboration with external parties depending on the characteristics of In 2018, we took a further step towards the centralization of to specific tasks conducted by recognized high quality suppliers, each model, are inserted. our activities by internalizing a part of the production of our but also to increase control over our supply chain. sneaker collection. In doing so, we have hired new artisans, fully dedicated to sneaker production, and we have developed In 2018, we continued to focus on reducing the new manufacturing technical expertise aimed at guaranteeing environmental impacts of our activities, through to our sportive dedicated collection the same quality levels and adopting a circular economy approach and by LASTING uniqueness that characterize our brand. implementing our environmental responsibility policy across the business. The lasting phase comprises a series of In addition, in 2018 we continued the internalization of cutting phases, started in 2017 with the installation of a new Besides our historical spare part request service, deeply operations leading to the assembling of cutting machine adding to the 2 already in place, and of a new appreciated by our clients, we continued our commitment to the upper and the other components, “positioning” machine that helps to position the model patterns optimize leather stocks coming from previous collections in such as the sole and the heel. Our on leather. Such new equipment enabled us to perform nearly order to avoid waste. Such materials can sometimes be used to artisans’ precision and ability to adapt 50% of such activities within our factory in San Mauro, thus providing cost reduction benefits while increasing product produce gadgets, while special and prestigious materials are involved in the production of specific capsule collections. their manual work depending on the quality. Furthermore, the cutting phase is conducted by joint specificities of each model add further value to the final product. FINISHING Representing the end of the production process, this phase comprises all the polishing, waxing and retouching activities. Our dedicated team is entrusted with implementing these final steps before placing the final product in its package. SERGIO ROSSI PLANT 1 A Stock Keeping Unit (SKU) is an ID storage code for a product, based on combinations of different parameters like colors and shapes. 60 61 The importance of sourcing We are committed to contributing to the quality of living and health and safety), containing all the specific limitations in the Given our support of the Made in Italy concept and the high Total procurement volumes in 2018 equaled 288.7 tons, 8% more the socio-economic development of local communities through use of chemical substances, which suppliers have to comply qualitative standards characterizing our products, in 2016 we than in 2017 [301-1]. Specifically, the amount of raw materials the minimization of social and environmental impacts related with before we can accept their products in our warehouses. The started a Quality Project, aimed at formalizing, consolidating used for production purposes increased from 158.2 tons in 2017 to the production of our shoes. In addition, it is crucial for us Buying Office relies on a consolidated network of raw material and redesigning the procedures and operations leading to our to 173 tons in 2018, mainly due to an increase in production. The to maximize scrutiny over our supply chain, in order to ensure suppliers, which have been carefully evaluated in the past few daily shoemaking activities. In this respect, we mapped over weight of packaging procured, in line with production-related appropriate quality levels. years thanks to dedicated Quality/Cost/Effectiveness rankings, 120 steps needed to obtain the final product, in order to align raw materials, increased by 6% compared to 2017 levels. which are constantly monitored. the organizations to our quality and value targets. At the same All our packaging materials, including boxes and shopping bags, To do so, when developing a new collection, Sergio Rossi’s Supply time, we have defined in a clear way the objectives, methods and are FSC-certified (see the box at page 64). Chain function coordinates with the Research & Style function We are proud to underline that leather and instruments needed to perform periodic controls on the quality to clearly establish the range of raw materials and semi-finished components of a Sergio Rossi shoe are rigorously Made of the raw materials, components and semi-finished products components which will be needed to realize at an industrial scale in Italy. Leather is the most important material of our we receive from our suppliers, as well as on our final products. the models included in the new collection. The selection of new production, not only for quantity and value, but also This long-term oriented project has been implemented thanks suppliers for this purpose may be a lengthy and complex process, because it defines the style of Sergio Rossi’s shoes. to the active participation of all the people who work every day given the high quality and reliability we require from all our Therefore, we rely on Italian tanneries for 100% of the with passion and attention to processes, and who represent the business partners. leather procured. crucial strength of our brand. Furthermore, the Supply Chain function is entrusted with the The strong collaboration created with our external raw materials smooth and correct functioning of all the supplier selection, and semi-finished products providers has been possible also monitoring and control phase, as well as of the inbound and thanks to the constant commitment to keeping and strengthening outbound logistics operations. The function interacts closely our relationships with local and historic providers, while with the Logistics and Buying offices, which are responsible for simultaneously extending our network, in a constant pursuit of each specific task involved in the selection and shipping of raw transparent, efficient and reliable partners who share our values. materials, accessories, semi-finished and finished products. In addition, we strongly rely on the uniqueness and force of the Given the strategic role of suppliers, we put in place a structured Forlì and Cesena district, gathering around 200 small companies system to ensure their appropriate selection and monitoring and 3,000 people working with the best shoemaking brands in to guarantee consistent levels of quality; for this reason, we are the world. These local suppliers provide us more than the 26% of constantly in contact with them and we visit their production our overall procurement volumes 2 and, more generally, 91% of sites regularly. our procurement of raw materials, products and services comes from Italian suppliers, while the remaining 9% comes from The supplier research activity driven by the Buying Office is sealed the European area [102-9; 204-1]. Part of this latter category is by the signing of our supply agreements comprised of a series of related to our espadrillas collection, manufactured in Spain. ethical and environmental clauses that have to be accepted in Spain is recognized worldwide for its creations of the special order to agree a commercial collaboration. At the same time, we midsummer fashion alternative to sandals, that is the reason also ask our suppliers to adhere to our Restricted Substances why we decided to realize our sr1 espadrillas in Spain in the quest List (RSL) (please refer to the paragraph concerning customer for the utmost artisanal quality. 4% 22% NOTE: THE DATA ARE ASSESSED IN TERMS OF ECONOMIC VALUE OF THE PURCHASED MATERIALS AND SERVICES AND COVERS THE ENTIRE PROCUREMENT 9% BUDGET RELATED TO THE PRODUCTION PROCESS. THE “LOCAL SUPPLIERS” CATEGORY NOTE: REFERRING TO THE COMPRISES SUPPLIERS BASED CUTTING AND SEAMING PHASE IN THE EMILIA ROMAGNA WE RELY ON OUR INTERNAL REGION (ITALY) AND IN SAN PRODUCTION CAPACITY AND 26% MARINO, THEN FURTHER SUBDIVIDED INTO THE FORLÌON EXTERNAL SPECIALIZED SUPPLIERS, WHICH ARE CESENA PROVINCE, LOCATED CONSTANTLY MONITORED IN IN THE EMILIA ROMAGNA REGION AND CHARACTERIZED TERMS OF QUALITY BY THE SIGNIFICANT PROXIMITY TO THE SAN MAURO 65% FACTORY, AND THE REST OF THE REGION; THE “REST OF Local Supplier ITALY” CATEGORY COMPRISES THE MARCHE, VENETO, Rest of Italy LOMBARDIA, CAMPANIA AND Europe TOSCANA REGIONS; WHILE Emilia Romagna THE “EUROPE” CATEGORY COMPRISES ALBANIAN, SPANISH Forlì-Cesena Province AND SERBIAN SUPPLIERS. 2 Our overall procurement volumes comprise purchase of raw materials (leather, plateaus, soles, insoles and heels); other raw materials like ancillary components (glues and solvents) and packaging; finished products (related to external production of finished products); and services (like cutting and stitching activities). Concerning the computation of the spending on local suppliers, we have calculated percentages based on the value of the purchased products and services, rather than the weight. 62 63 MATERIALS USED FOR PRODUCTION AND PACKAGING [TONS] CATEGORY TYPE MATERIAL 2016 2017 2018 Production-related Leather 69.8 70.8 68.2 Plateaus 1.7 0.6 1.1 Insoles 21.6 17.9 19.9 Soles 59.4 49.3 58.4 Heels 20 14.2 19.9 Ancillary materials Glues 2.8 3.0 3.2 Solvents 2.9 2.4 2.3 Total raw materials 178.2 158.2 173 Packaging Quality labels 0.2 0.3 0.1 Box labels 0.5 0.5 0.6 Labels 0.2 0.2 0.2 Boxes 62.7 59.8 64.0 Shopping bags 3.7 10.5 6.4 Tissue paper 16.2 15.3 14.5 Transport packaging 21.7 22.6 29.9 Total packaging materials 105.1 109.2 115.7 Total materials used for production and packaging 283.3 267.4 288.7 THE DATA COMPRISED WITHIN THE TABLE REFER TO THE PRODUCTION ACTIVITIES CONDUCTED IN SAN MAURO PASCOLI. ARTISAN AT WORK Our efforts to guarantee FSC Certification customer health and safety The Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) is an international, The health and safety of our customers is central to Sergio Rossi. guarantee our legal compliance. Each commodity category, such independent, non-profit organization that protects forests for Our Company, has always been committed to monitoring the as leathers and textiles, has its own dedicated quality control future generations. The FSC sets standards under which forests materials it uses in its production activities, in accordance with plan that ranges from 10 to 15 substances to be verified. In 2018, and companies are certified. national and international legislation imposing the respect we performed chemical tests on 85 materials. Finally, for specific FSC certification ensures that products come from responsibly of eco-toxicological requirements. These requirements are cases, we also carry out mechanical tests, such as tensile and managed forests that provide environmental, social and intended to limit the use of prohibited chemical substances deformation tests, in order to test materials’ physical properties economic benefits. The FSC certification program is an and to guarantee the maximum safety for customers and the and their conformity to international standards. [416-1] independent third-party scheme. FSC inspections are carried environment, according to the REACH regulation3. Therefore, out by 17 independent certification bodies across the world. Sergio Rossi has created an internal Restricted Substances List As a result, in 2018 we have not received any sanctions related These bodies are in turn accredited by ASI (Accreditation (RSL), shared with all our raw materials suppliers as an annex to to the chemicals contained in our final products. There has Service International). the supply agreement. not been any incident of non-compliance with regulations or voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts, nor have In addition, we have adopted an internal control plan aimed we been found guilty of legal infringements [416-2]. at implementing chemical controls upon the reception of our raw materials. In this respect, we rely on accredited chemical laboratories, conducting tests on the raw materials we receive, to 3 The REACH Regulation of the European Union (EC 1907/2006) has been adopted to improve the protection of human health and the environment from the risks that can be posed by chemicals, while enhancing the competitiveness of the EU chemicals industry. It also promotes alternative methods for the hazard assessment of substances in order to reduce the number of tests on animals. 64 65 3.2 CULTURAL AND PHILANTHROPIC ACTIVITIES Our Archive: a Living Heritage Sergio Rossi has a rich heritage which we believe is the key to work. Alongside the Living Archive is finally located the “Living successfully leading the way for future generations. With this idea Emotions” area: a synaesthetic space where the world of Sergio we started the Living Heritage project, aimed at preserving and Rossi can be experienced through a strong visual and emotional fostering the cultural heritage of the brand and of the artisanal impact by showing the most iconic models and themes that have district in which we operate. always represented the different souls of the brand. In line with this, in 2017, we established a dedicated team to work In order to further increase its accessibility and in line with our on the creation of a corporate archive. corporate digitalization strategy we developed a digital platform that provides information storage and consultation advantages. In less than 2 years we gathered more than 6,000 In 2018, we completed the main structure of the platform backhistorical pieces from all over the world and have end settings while in the near future we will launch the front-end, them archived in San Mauro, representing the history allowing an in-depth research able to guide users on new paths of Sergio Rossi’s creative genius since the foundation of reading through unexpected relationships between images, of the Company in the ‘50s. So far we have managed documents, photographs, places, people of the past but also more to restore and catalogue a great amount of products, recent and contemporary, which continue to enrich and bring to from shoes to editorials, lookbooks, material for events life the story of Sergio Rossi. and media contents. The Living Heritage project has been intended primarily to Together with the creation of a physical archive, the passionate provide a narrative capable of enhancing the uniqueness of our and intense research activity has led to the creation of an brand, by gathering all the main elements of its distinctive DNA. exhibition space created by architect Marco Costanzi, and a The creation of our corporate archive should be considered digital platform. a pivotal move in this sense, aimed at providing designers with an extremely wide range of past models and sketches to The exhibition space, strategically located within our Magic take inspiration from. That is why, in 2018, we hosted fashion Kingdom in San Mauro Pascoli, is divided into three different influencers from different countries whose feeds on social media moments, each of them characterized by a spatial and functional have reached more than 4 million people. Beside the fashion level. The first one is the “Gallery of Lasts”, where the history of community, in 2018 we opened the doors of our Archive to postthe brand is reinterpreted through its distinguishing element: graduate schools and universities. the last. Once passed through the gallery, the visitor enjoys the One of our future objectives is, in fact, to further increase the heart of the Archive, the so called “Living Archive”, where part number of visits so to unveil the plant as a center of excellence of the vintage collection is conserved. The area is indeed mainly and to share with all stakeholders the passion and the magic conceived as a “living” area for consultation, research and behind both our artisanal work and our Kingdom. 2017 BEGINNING OF THE 350 DAYS FOR THE LAUNCH 640 SQM DEDICATED TO OUR 11,800 DOCUMENTS AND IMAGES PROJECT OF THE LIVING HERITAGE HISTORY DIGITALIZED PROJECT 1,100 HISTORICAL 308 EXPOSED 3,250 RESTORED MODELS, 6,000 SHOES AND OTHER LASTS LASTS PHOTOGRAPHED, STORED ACCESSORIES ARCHIVED IN AND CATALOGED SAN MAURO PASCOLI AS OF TODAY 66 67 ICONIC MODELS EXHIBITION 69 Enhancing the skills of our Living Heritage team In 2018, a member of our Living Heritage team had the opportunity to take part in a summer school dedicated to heritage management and, in particular, to archives in fashion companies. The course, organized by the Fashion Research Italy Foundation, was a two-week full immersion during which Sergio Rossi’s staff explored characteristics, peculiarities and operational aspects of the archives in Italian fashion companies. With classroom lessons, active laboratories and technical visits to some of the most renowned Italian archives, the course explored diffused archive models and settings as well as their role in enhancing the brand identity of the company and fostering the historical heritage. HEELS COLLECTION 70 71 Art in the factory Mr. Sergio Rossi has always been influenced by the artistic movements of his time, especially the ‘70s, and we still find multiple similarities between a Sergio Rossi product and a piece of art. That’s the starting point for the creation of a site-specific art collection where the synergy and interdisciplinarity between art and fashion is tangible. The project, curated by Rossella Farinotti, aims to enhance the history of the brand by researching and supporting Italian artistic productions. The purpose of the collaboration is to develop a work of art born and raised in the factory with a strong interaction with the artisans and the working space. The first three works of art installed in 2018 in San Mauro Pascoli have been selected to mark the beginning of an exhibition path in the factory, thus setting up a dialogue with the history of the brand, the nature of the place and its territory. The common thread of the three works of art is indeed the dialogue with the place, with the context and also with Romagna and the story of Sergio Rossi. That is why we chose Italian artists, which are only the first of a series, who serve to make the factory a more accessible and beautiful space. 72 73 SIGNATURE Vedovamazzei Neon light cm 400x49,8 The company’s telephone number written by the CEO Riccardo Sciutto made from neon and called “Signature”. Made in blown glass with a traditional technique in Milan, the work has an immediate visual impact since it is 4 meters long and indicating the human personalization of the brand and it is also VELA AL TERZO (ARVËDAS) visible from the outside. Ettore Favini Fabrics, leather Dimensions determined by space A delicate and elegant sail of 2 meters in diameter, installed in the highest part of the entrance in the hall of Sergio Rossi. As the sails of the ancient local boats representing the coat of arms of the owning families, Favini created a specially tailored heraldic symbol, realized with leathers and model patterns coming from our past collections. Favini, in fact, spent a week together with our artisans choosing materials and tissues coming from the archive but also from the living memories of the workers. In so doing he created a design sewn on the surface of the sail, which is precisely hanging with sailing ropes as a symbol and memory of Sergio Rossi's history. 74 75 BILLDOR Davide Allieri Brass cm 370x300x250 A 3 meter high structure made of brass plates assembled on site. The choice of the position, in relation to the rigorous architecture of the factory, is a sign visible from the highway in a way that all passersby can not fail to notice the golden structure that represents an advertising bill, emptied of its media content. A tribute to the substance of a brand like Sergio Rossi, who does not need images or bright lights, but lives his story. 76 77 Supporting arts and culture Trade associations Besides the creation of a museum of contemporary art within We are strongly committed to creating synergies with Italian trade our factory in San Mauro, we have been asked to be active associations, which support the development of the industry and protagonist in different cultural events. publish sectorial studies that are key to our business. We have been part of the Exhibition “Italiana” held in Palazzo As Sergio Rossi S.p.A., we are currently members of several Reale in Milan (February, 22 – May 6, 2018) , curated by Maria trade associations, comprising Confindustria, Altagamma, Luisa Frisa and Stefano Tonchi. The exhibition, supported by Montenapoleone District and Sammauroindustria, and we the National Chamber of Italian Fashion and by the Italian participate in their associative regular meetings [102-12; 102-13]. Ministry for Economic Development, was dedicated to Italian fashion design from 1971 to 2001 and explored the social and cultural impact of fashion. We have been asked to participate with our most iconic stiletto red pump. We also collaborated with the production of an Italian TV series dedicated to the history of Made in Italy between the ‘60s and ‘70s, giving them the possibility to use our special vintage shoes for shooting films . Giving back to the community Our commitment to carry out philanthropic activities by involving the population and local stakeholders has been carried forward with the contribution to charity and fundraising events. An example of such initiatives is “Profit No Profit”, an event organized by ABN and Panda Onlus and sponsored by the Chamber of Fashion and AssoModa, with the support of the Montenapoleone District. We supported the charitable initiative by donating our products that, together with over 90 other brands involved, were sold during a three-day shopping event held in Cinema Manzoni, in Milan. The funds raised supported activities of the associations active in the care and assistance of children suffering from kidney diseases. Through our Montenapoleone Store in Milan, we have also organized a charity shopping event which raised funds for the Francesca Rava Foundation, which is focused on helping children in difficult conditions in Italy and around the world, through distance adoptions, awareness-raising activities on children's rights and volunteering. In 2018, we participated to “Convivio”, an event that supports the activities of ANLAIDS which has been operating for almost 30 years to help HIV research, assisting HIV-positive people and their families. In December 2018, we supported the charity gala dinner in Milan “Lo chiedo anche a te”, in aid of cancer research. During the dinner there was a charity auction with fashion products offered as prizes by different brands. The auction raised more than 160 thousand euros. Finally, we participated in a gala dinner organized by AEM, a non-profit organization working in the fields of education, nutrition, health and development aiming to help children in Rwanda. In addition we support the local association “Associazione Sammauroindustria”, whose main purpose is to safeguard the shoe industry and the local culture, with particular reference to the celebration and safeguard of the cultural heritage of the Italian poet Giovanni Pascoli born and raised in San Mauro (which became San Mauro Pascoli honoring the poet). 78 79 04 ENERGY Reducing the footprint of our shoes SUSTAINABILITY POLICY “Sergio Rossi is aware of the increasing challenges posed by 4.1 THE RESPONSIBLE USE OF ENERGY RESOURCES climate change and it is committed to monitor and progressively reduce its energy consumption as well as to mitigate the GHG FOR EMISSIONS REDUCTION emissions related to its activities. In particular, the San Mauro Pascoli plant is the epicentre of Sergio Rossi’s sustainability activities as well as the fulcrum of all its production activities.” Sergio Rossi is aware of the challenges posed by climate change and KEY COMMITMENTS OF THE POLICY believes in the essential role of business in addressing these issues; To develop strategies to promote the efficient and responsible use as such, we are committed to reducing the environmental footprint of energy resources such as the improvement of energy efficiency of the production plants and of the proprietary stores within the of our activities and, following the signing of the UN Global Compact retail network. To continuously measure the corporate carbon footprint and its on 7th August 2017, Sergio Rossi has started implementing a series of sources, and to identify further initiatives aimed at minimizing GHG emissions. interventions set out to achieve a long-term reduction of our main impacts. Specifically, the Facility team is in charge of identifying and MAIN RESULTS 340 tons of CO2 avoided thanks to the optimization of logistics implementing initiatives aimed at comprehensively increasing energy activities and to the photovoltaic plant installed in San Mauro efficiency. Installation of a new high-efficiency heat pump in our factory Installation of an energy metering system in San Mauro 42% reduction of Scope 3 GHG emissions from business travel In particular, the team constantly monitors energy consumption restructuring, we reduced the number of providers with the aim by air, train and rented cars with respect to 2017 levels of our facilities and operations in the San Mauro plant, of centralizing logistic activities, thus increasing the attention the Milan office and the retail network in the EMEA region, as and control on the related processes. LINK WITH SDGs well as the corresponding amount of GHG emissions generated. Since 2015, the first year for which we have calculated our Concurrently, as regarding Europe, we regulated the shipment carbon footprint, the analysis also includes fugitive emissions frequency in order to maximize the efficiency of our deliveries. of refrigerant gases and emissions related to our business travel. As a result, in spite of an overall 27% increase in the number of shipped products globally, we managed to avoid more than In line with our commitment of expanding the scope of our 530 shipments corresponding to approximately 160 tons of carbon footprint that we measure, in 2018, we have also CO2. These positive results were possible as we succeeded in estimated for the first time the GHG emissions related to increasing the number of pair of shoes per shipping unit, thus 340 the logistics of sold products. The calculation considers all increasing the overall number of products per delivery, +23% the products shipped on our charge from our factory in San compared with 2017. Most importantly, we achieved these Mauro to both our clients worldwide and to our logistic hubs goals while maintaining the same delivery times and customers in Asia and North America. Analysis shows that, as expected, service quality. the most significant contribution is related to air transport, which accounts for 95% of logistics-related carbon emissions. We are particularly proud to say that redesigning TONS OF CO2 AVOIDED The remaining 5% is related to road vehicles, used for all our our global logistics not only increased efficiency and deliveries in Italy and Europe. reduced costs but enabled us to avoid a significant -42% volume of CO2 emissions, whilst at all times maintaining The carbon footprint of outbound logistics has been impacted our high-quality standards. by an important reorganization of our logistic activities and networks, concluded in 2018. The project aimed, for every For the years to come, our commitment is to keep monitoring region in which we market and sell our products, at redesigning the performance of our outbound logistics and to keep seeking the settings and the internal procedures in order to improve our new ways to further reduce our footprint and to support clients REDUCTION OF SCOPE 3 GHG performance both in terms of cost and quality. As part of the in all logistics-related activities. EMISSIONS FROM BUSINESS TRAVEL OUR EFFORT TO ASSIST OUR CLIENTS IN CUSTOMS AND CERTIFICATION PROCESSES Regarding the logistics of sold products, in 2018, we internalized custom activities by creating a dedicated area, authorized by custom authorities, within our factory in San Mauro Pascoli. This allows us to carry out clearance procedures directly, thus reducing risks related to non-compliances and to goods manipulations during external controls. In addition, being an accredited place for custom clearance procedures, Sergio Rossi will also increase the mutual trust with local custom authorities. In February 2018, we received the Eurasian Conformity (EAC) mark, a certification used to indicate that sold products conform to all the technical requirements of the Eurasian Customs Union, currently comprising Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Armenia and Kyrgyzstan. To obtain the EAC certification we completed, through authorized laboratories, specific physico-chemical tests and technical analysis on a sample of our products in order to guarantee that all requirements are met. Being Sergio Rossi accredited for the use of the EAC mark, clients in Russia, and in the other countries of the Eurasian Union, now have the possibility to directly require the application of such certification, thus drastically reducing the costs and the timing of the process as well as the risks and the responsibility related to import procedures. 82 83 With respect to energy-related emissions, the carbon footprint In 2018, our total energy consumption was 19,131 GJ, almost The total amount of GHG emissions (Scope 1 + Scope 2), mainly confirmed that our energy consumption levels are mainly related in line with 2017 levels taking into account the opening of new thanks to the reduction of electricity consumption levels, to the San Mauro plant and attributable to three main factors: stores and the increase in production. This is a good result has decreased from 1,569 in 2017 to 1,505 tons of CO2 in 2018, electricity consumption, natural gas purchased from the grid and considering that these values are affected by external factors, i.e. a 4% year-on-year reduction. As regarding other indirect the diesel consumed by corporate vehicles. Firmly convinced that such as weather conditions, which have an impact on the energy GHG emissions (Scope 3), the significant increase is related to effective energy management stems from the implementation of production of our photovoltaic system. the introduction of logistics-related emissions in the scope of thorough monitoring, in 2018 we have installed a new system to the carbon footprint for 2018 only. Excluding logistics, thus supervise energy consumption levels in our San Mauro Pascoli SERGIO ROSSI'S ENERGY MIX If we consider only our San Mauro facilities, despite an overall considering only emissions derived from business travel by facilities. The system, that will become fully operational from increase in production, our Facility team managed to reduce air, train and rented cars, we would have achieved a significant the beginning of 2019, is based on a set of near 30 internal meters the electricity consumption by 7% with respect to 2017. -This reduction, equal to -41,8% compared to 2017. This result is that allow us to have real-time data record of the energy demand achievement is the result of the concrete steps we have taken as mainly related to an overall optimization of business travel and of different production departments within the factory. Detailed part of our commitment to fight climate change. In particular, to a stabilization of the market. [305-1; 305-2; 305-3] daily energy consumption data also enable us to check energy in 2018, we invested in new technology solutions and installed a trends and identify potential issues that would not otherwise be 10% 12% new high-efficiency heat pump whose significant energy saving detected. results will be evident starting from 2019. In line with our view The full picture of historical data will be available in the next of a circular economy, we kept all components of the uninstalled years; nevertheless, the first analysis shows that the most energy pump as spare parts for future repairs of the old pumps still in intensive processes are connected to the thermal power station 16% use. Moreover, in 2018 we continued the substitution of halogen and to the aeration system linked to manufacturing activities. The lamps with LED models by converting the lighting system of the ultimate goal is to have a better understanding of the consumption finished products warehouse. This activity will be completed in patterns within the plant in order to target and prioritize energy 2019 together with the substitution of the lighting system of the saving initiatives by considering, for instance, the mix of the plant thermal power station. Updating infrastructure and installing thermal energy production and the operational aspects related to new technologies are points of pride and encourage us to keep manufacturing processes. working in this way. 62% The new metering system will therefore allow us to have a more comprehensive overview of our electricity need, already significantly mitigated by the photovoltaic system installed in our factory in San Mauro. Since the construction phase of the plant, in fact, we planned the structure of the roof in order to augment its exposure to the sun. DIRECT AND INDIRECT GHG EMISSIONS [TONS OF CO2 EQUIVALENT] Our forward-looking vision enabled us a few years later Electricity from national grid ACTIVITY 2016 2017 2018 to install 3,500 square meters of photovoltaic panels. Natural gas SCOPE 1: DIRECT GHG EMISSIONS Diesel This photovoltaic system represents an excellence in the San Electricity from photovoltaic system Natural gas consumption for heating purposes 140.9 181.6 172.0 Mauro district, a virtuous example of sustainable architecture and production facility so far. Around 16% of the electricity we Diesel consumption for emergency electricity generation 0.2 0.3 0.2 consume in San Mauro is produced by our photovoltaic system and is directly used by the production plant, while the rest is Diesel consumption for owned and leased vehicles 96.6 92.4 162.5 purchased from the grid. Our renewable energy consumption, coming from our photovoltaic plant, in 2018, was equivalent to Refrigerant gases leakage 45.5 19.5 0 1,843 GJ [302-1]. Moreover, in 2018 we sold around 185 GJ to the Total scope 1 283.1 293.8 334.7 grid, in line with 2017 data. Thanks to our efforts, in 2018 alone we have generated CO2 savings SCOPE 2: ENERGY INDIRECT GHG EMISSIONS of around 180 tons of CO2, equal to the greenhouse gases emitted by Electricity purchased from the grid (Location-based method) 1,096.4 1,274.8 1,170.6 about 100 passenger cars, which travel for 10,000 km each. Electricity purchased from the grid (Market-based method) 1,420.4 1,581.1 1,547.4 Total scope 1 and 2 (Location-based method) 1,379.6 1,568.6 1,505.3 ENERGY CONSUMPTION [GJ] SCOPE 3: OTHER INDIRECT GHG EMISSIONS TYPE OF CONSUMPTION ENERGY SOURCE 2016 2016 2016 Business travel by air 93.2 192.7 104.4 Emergency generator Diesel 2.2 4.8 3.5 Business travel by train and rented cars 6.6 8.4 12.6 Heating Natural gas 2,524.6 3,248.4 3,075.2 Logistics of sold products 530 Electricity National grid 10,994.4 12,238.1 11,857.2 Total scope 3 99.7 201.1 647 Photovoltaic system 1,856.4 2,052.0 1,842.7 Total scope 1, 2 (location-based method) and 3 1,479.3 1,769.7 2,152.3 Owned vehicles Diesel 18.5 27.1 39.0 Leased vehicles Diesel 1,293.3 1,228.3 2,313.4 Total energy consumption 16,689.4 18,798.7 19,131.0 84 85 05 METHODOLOGICAL NOTE Reporting principles and criteria Scope of Reporting Materiality analysis Sergio Rossi Sustainability Report, which encompasses the This document includes a description of initiatives, events In line with previous years, the “Sustainability Committee” was period from 1 January to 31 December 2018 calendar year [102and programs that took place or were implemented in 2018, involved in updating the materiality analysis, in accordance with 51; 102-52], is an annual publication and has been prepared in as well as a series of previous events with repercussions on the GRI Standards. To begin with, the main topics and concerns accordance with the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards: the 2018 calendar year. Moreover, the Report introduces raised by stakeholders were taken into account in the definition Core option, published in 2016 by the Global Reporting Initiative additional initiatives that will be carried out in 2019 [102-50]. of the materiality matrix, as summarized below [102-40; 102-42; (GRI) [102-54]. The contents of this report reflect the materiality When available and applicable, the quantitative information 102-43; 102-44]. analysis carried out according to the approach described in detail provided refers also to the period 2016-2017, so to highlight in the paragraph “materiality analysis” and in paragraph §1.3 current performance trends and evolutions. For 2016 data, all “Our commitment to sustainability”. the information refers to Sergio Rossi S.p.A. only, while the 2017 and 2018 data refer also to a series of selected monobrand As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and outlet stores from the Company’s EMEA Retail Network, STAKEHOLDER CATEGORY ENGAGEMENT TOOLS AND ACTIVITIES Initiative from 2017, through this sustainability report Sergio operating under the Sergio Rossi Retail S.r.l. and its French Clients Direct dialogue through the retail force, analysis of social Rossi will also fulfill its commitment to produce a Communication branch, and the Sergio Rossi UK Ltd – all fully controlled by media, monitoring of the satisfaction of products through on Progress – a public disclosure outlining its progress in Sergio Rossi S.p.A. In particular, 2018 data include the following: complaints management (see §1.2) implementing the 10 principles of the UNGC. In this sense, the the Montenapoleone store in Milan, the Via dei Condotti store UNGC principles are clearly mapped versus the GRI indicators in Rome*, the Leccio, Noventa di Piave, Fidenza Village* and Competitors in the GRI Content Index. With regards to Human Rights, Sergio San Mauro Pascoli outlets in Italy, the Faubourg Saint-Honoré Employees Continuous dialogue with the HR department Rossi’s 2018 Sustainability Report does not directly address store in Paris and the Bicester Village outlet in Bicester*4. Any the UNGC issues and principles, since the major part of the exception to such scope is clearly outlined within the document Franchisees and Landlords Periodic meetings Company’s direct activities and suppliers are located in Italy, [102-45; 102-49]. Sergio Rossi S.p.A. has its headquarters and where laws ensure the regulation of human rights. Nonetheless, plant in San Mauro Pascoli, via Stradone 600/602 (Italy). Local communities Monitoring of main topics and concerns through the dialogue with other actors of San Mauro District, media monitoring and Sergio Rossi includes clauses on labor conditions and on the participation to trade associations respect of human rights in its Code of Business Conduct and the protection of workers occupational health and safety is an issue Shareholder and Investors Formal and informal meetings, periodic management reports, on which the Company is continuously committed to report on. sustainability reporting Social Media users and influencers Analysis of social media trend topics, interaction though Sergio Rossi social media profiles Suppliers Continuous dialogue, periodic meetings, written communication regarding our quality and chemical compliance requirements (see §3.1) Testimonials Continuous dialogue, periodic meetings, interaction through Sergio Rossi social media profiles Trade and production partners Periodic meetings Universities and other educational institutions Joint initiatives, such as the one organized with CERCAL, and other periodic meetings 4 Store signaled with the “*” were not included in 2017 reporting data. 88 89 We summarized the insights coming from a preliminary scenario analysis aimed at providing an overview of the main sustainability Finally, we asked each manager to evaluate the relevance of each material topic for Sergio Rossi based on their perception, QUALITY REPORTING PRINCIPLES issues affecting the leather goods and fashion industries. In impressions and knowledge of the sector and its recent Our Sustainability Report is drafted in accordance with the particular, we conducted a sector-specific media analysis and developments, the commitment of Sergio Rossi on those topics principles of balance, comparability, accuracy, timeliness, a benchmark analysis of our peers’ sustainability reporting, and their actual and potential impact for the Company and its clarity and reliability, as defined by the GRI Standards. The in order to identify the most relevant issues for comparable entire value chain. By doing so, we have updated the relative document highlights both strengths and weaknesses, as well companies and the most pressing priorities for our stakeholders. position of each topic on the x-axis of the materiality matrix. as potential areas of improvements for the Group. The data The following table highlights the linkages between Sergio collection and reporting processes are structured in order to The results of such analysis also helped to inform the relevance Rossi’s material issues (whose identification is described in ensure the comparability over the years and to guarantee an of each topic for our stakeholders, by weighting them depending detail in Chapter 1 above) and the corresponding GRI Standards. accurate interpretation of information by the key stakeholders on the different priorities and concerns of each stakeholder Moreover, the table shows the so-called reporting “boundaries”, interested in our performance evolution. We have been category. We took into account our top managers’ perceptions i.e. whether each material topic generates impacts both within supported by the Italian EY Climate Change and Sustainability about stakeholders’ priorities by asking them to update the and outside the organization. The table also reports any potential Services team in the drafting of this 2018 Sustainability Report. relevance for Sergio Rossi of each sustainability topics and to reporting limitation due to the current unavailability of data and The current Sustainability Report is not subject to external assign a weighted score to each topic. Such scores, representing information pertaining to an external perimeter [102-46]. assurance [102-56]. the relevance of each topic for all our relevant stakeholders, are In the coming years, Sergio Rossi is committed to identifying and indicated on the y-axis within the materiality map presented in implementing specific actions aimed at gradually extending the §1.3 “Our commitment to sustainability”. scope of data collection and reporting for each material topic. Reporting principles and criteria The calculation methodologies described below outline how energy and environmental figures have been computed for 2016, 2017 and 2018. MATERIAL TOPIC GRI MATERIAL ASPECT ASPECT BOUNDARY REPORTING LIMITATIONS WITHIN THE OUTSIDE THE WITHIN THE OUTSIDE THE ORGANIZATION ORGANIZATION ORGANIZATION Energy consumption ORGANIZATION Economic performance Economic performance Sergio Rossi S.p.A. The energy consumption related to the Company’s owned and Contribution to local Procurement practices Sergio Rossi S.p.A. leased vehicles have been calculated starting from available fuel development consumption data. The following table shows the conversion Use of sustainable raw Materials Sergio Rossi S.p.A. Suppliers Reporting scope not factors that have been used: materials and packaging extended to suppliers FUEL DENSITY LCV (LOWER CALORIFIC VALUE) Energy efficiency Energy Sergio Rossi S.p.A. Suppliers Reporting scope not extended to suppliers DEFRA (Department of MATTM (Ministero dell’Ambiente Environment, Food & Rural e della Tutela del Territorio e Reduction of GHG Emissions Sergio Rossi S.p.A. Suppliers Reporting scope extended Affairs), Conversion factors del Mare), Tabella parametri emissions just to some suppliers Full set, 2016, 2017 and 2018. standard nazionali 2016, 2017 and 2018. Legal compliance Environmental compliance Sergio Rossi S.p.A. Reporting scope not extended to suppliers Business Ethics Supplier environmental Sergio Rossi S.p.A. Reporting scope not assessment extended to suppliers Traceability and Employment Sergio Rossi S.p.A. Reporting scope not transparency along the extended to suppliers supply chain Talent attraction and Training and education Sergio Rossi S.p.A. retention Employee health and Occupational health Sergio Rossi S.p.A. safety and safety Remuneration and welfare Diversity and equal Sergio Rossi S.p.A. opportunity Traceability and Supplier social Sergio Rossi S.p.A. Reporting scope not transparency along the assessment extended to suppliers supply chain Client satisfaction Customer health and Sergio Rossi S.p.A. Clients safety Creativity, design and Training and education Sergio Rossi S.p.A. protection of the artisanal know-how 90 91 GHG emissions Air emissions GHG EMISSIONS SCOPE 1 Concerning environmental data, when actual data are not Air emissions are calculated taking into account all pollutants SOURCE ACTIVITY DATA EMISSION FACTOR GWP available, conservative estimations have been used, resulting relating to industrial processes; the calculation is based in the underestimation of the Group’s environmental on detection of pollutants concentrations, multiplied by Emergency generator/ Heating Fuel consumption (Diesel and MATTM (Ministero Only CO2 emissions were performance. Greenhouse gases emissions calculations have estimated annual flows. and Cooling natural gas) dell’Ambiente e della Tutela considered been carried out based on the principles included in the GHG del Territorio e del Mare), Tabella parametri standard Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. nazionali 2016, 2017 and 2018 Indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions related to electric energy consumption have been calculated with both the locationOwned and leased cars Fuel consumption (diesel) MATTM (Ministero Only CO2 emissions were based and the market-based method. The first one reflects dell’Ambiente e della Tutela considered del Territorio e del Mare), the average emissions intensity of grids on which energy Tabella parametri standard consumption occurs while the second reflects emissions from nazionali 2016, 2017 and 2018 electricity that the Company has chosen on purpose. For what concerns the amounts of GHG emissions related Leakages from air-conditioning Leakages (kg) IPCC, 2013 Climate Change to transportation activities (Scope 3), indirect emissions systems of refrigerant gases 2013: The Physical Science Basis. Contribution of resulting from outbound logistics have also been taken into Working Group I to the Fifth account by considering all shipments from our factory in San Assessment Report of the Mauro Pascoli to our store network and logistic hub worldwide. IPCC. Cambridge University Finally, in order to calculate the amount of CO2 saved thanks Press, p. 732 to the energy generated by our photovoltaic system, we have first converted the kWh consumption of electricity coming from the photovoltaic system into avoided CO2 emissions by using the Terna emission factor (i.e. the same used for electricity purchased from the grid). Afterwards, such saving GHG EMISSIONS SCOPE 2 has been compared to the amount of CO2 emissions generated by an average passenger vehicle (as defined by the UK DEFRA SOURCE ACTIVITY DATA EMISSION FACTOR GWP conversion tables) traveling for 10,000 kilometers, as to obtain the corresponding equivalence. Electricity purchased from the Electricity consumption (kWh) Terna, international Only CO2 emissions were national grid (Location-based comparisons on Enerdata considered method) figures 2016 data Electricity purchased from the Electricity consumption (kWh) AIB, European Residual Mixes national grid (Market-based 2016 and 2017 method) GHG EMISSIONS SCOPE 3 SOURCE ACTIVITY DATA EMISSION FACTOR GWP Business travel by air Distance covered (km) DEFRA (Department of CO2 equivalent, considering Environment, Food & Rural the following gases: CO2 (GWP Affairs), Conversion factors = 1), CH4 (GWP = 25) and N2O Full set, 2016, 2017 and 2018. (GWP = 298). Global Warming Potentials (GWPs) are taken from IPCC Fourth Assessment Report (AR4). Business travel by train Distance covered (km) Ferrovie dello Stato Italiane, Only CO2 emissions were Rapporto di Sostenibilità , considered 2015, 2016 and 2017. Outbound logistics Products shipped (km*kg) DEFRA (Department of CO2 equivalent, considering Contacts Environment, Food & Rural the following gases: CO2 (GWP Affairs), Conversion factors = 1), CH4 (GWP = 25) and N2O For further information about Full set, 2016, 2017 and 2018. (GWP = 298). Global Warming this Sustainability Report, Potentials (GWPs) are taken from IPCC Fourth Assessment please contact [102-53]: Report (AR4). Sergio Rossi S.p.A. Via Pontaccio, 13 20121, Milan, Italy Tel: +39 02 7632081 Email: info@sergiorossi.com 92 93 APPENDIX Air emissions Waste In addition to the topics highlighted as material through our Every year we carry out an analysis on our air emissions, as Our total waste volumes can be split into 2 different categories: materiality analysis, we closely monitor other environmental requested by environmental authorities in accordance with hazardous and non-hazardous waste. The former category aspects connected to our processes, especially from the Italian Legislative Decree n. 152/06. Details are provided in the comprises some of the glues we use in our production process, perspective of regulatory compliance. table below. neon and some container categories, while the latter comprises raw material and packaging waste and can be compared AIR EMISSIONS UNIT 2016 2017 2018 to municipal waste. In 2018, our total waste volumes have Water Volatile Organic 0.12 0.66 2.2 significantly decreased (-31%), from 41,566 kg in 2017 to 28,728 T kg in 2018, while the percentage of recycling has remained In 2018, our water consumption, which is entirely supplied by Compounds (VOC) almost stable (52%) [306-2]. Those numbers are affected by a municipal sources, decreased by 7% compared with 2017, shifting variable pattern from one year to the other as a part of our waste from 13,833 to 12,874 cubic meters [303-1]. This follows a number The year-on-year increase in air emission levels are not due to production is linked with the disposal of old stocks and it is not of optimization activities carried out in our factory in San Mauro a parallel increase in the number of functioning hours of our directly linked to the regular production process. In particular, Pascoli such as the introduction of a new drip irrigation system machines, but to the fact that their measurement is based on the increase recorded in 2017 in our recycling rate and total waste able to save it by placing it directly onto the soil at low rates, thus timely annual estimates, which are subject to the volatility of volumes is linked to the treatment of around 200 kg of mineral minimizing evaporation. particle concentrations related to machine utilization. oil we had accumulated over previous years, which we decided to recycle in a single effort, and the disposal of approximately 20 Moreover, in 2018 we respected all the limits required by law. tons of shoes lasts belonging to previous seasons. WATER CONSUMPTION DATA (M3) The legal limits are related to the purchase of products releasing SOURCE VOCs during their use; such limits for Sergio Rossi are equal to * The data refer only to the San Mauro Pascoli production site, given that 2016 2017 2018 both the Pontaccio office and the EMEA Retail Network fall within the local 9.500 kg of glues and solvents that are mainly used for production municipal waste collections, thus not requiring quantity monitoring. Municipal supply 10,076 13,833 12,874 and cleaning. * The data refer only to the San Mauro Pascoli production site and the Pontaccio office, since local utilities do not disclose these data. 2016 data include the San Mauro Pascoli production site only. Recycling hazardous waste Recycling non-hazardous waste Landfill hazardous waste Landfill non-hazardous waste 2016 2017 2018 Total recycled (Kg) 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Total waste (Kg) 94 95 GRI Content Index OMISSION GRI PART OMITTED, REASON The following table indicates the correspondence between the STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER/URL AND EXPLANATION information required by the GRI Standards with respect to each indicator linked to our material topics and the contents of this document. GRI 101: FOUNDATION In particular, when some information is missing because of 2016 the actual impossibility of measuring the related KPIs, we have inserted a detailed reference under the “Omissions” column below [102-55]. ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE General Disclosures 102-1 Name of the 10 organization 102-2 Activities, brands, 10 products, and services 102-3 Location of 10 headquarters 102-4 Location of 10 operations 102-5 Ownership and legal 16 form 102-6 Markets served 10; 20 102-7 Scale of the 10; 42; 58 organization 102-8 Information on 43-48 employees and other workers 102-9 Supply chain 62-64 102-10 Significant changes 15 to the organization and its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary Sergio Rossi does not Principle or approach formally adhere or adapt its decision-making approach in accordance to the precautionary approach. 102-12 External initiatives 78 102-13 Membership of 36; 78 associations 96 97 OMISSION OMISSION GRI PART OMITTED, REASON GRI PART OMITTED, REASON STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER/URL AND EXPLANATION STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER/URL AND EXPLANATION STRATEGY 102-46 Defining report 36-39; 89-91 content and topic Boundaries 102-14 Statement from 5 102-47 List of material 90 senior decision-maker topics ETHICS AND 102-48 Restatements of For this Report we have INTEGRITY information adopted the updated version of the GRI 403 (2018) and therefore 102-16 Values, principles, 16-17 restated 2016-2017 standards, and norms of data to align them with behavior the new GRI Disclosure requirements. GOVERNANCE 102-49 Changes in 88 reporting GRI 102: General 102-18 Governance 16 102-50 Reporting period 88 structure Disclosures 2016 STAKEHOLDER 102-51 Date of most recent August 2018 ENGAGEMENT report 102-40 List of stakeholder 89 groups 102-52 Reporting cycle 88 102-41 Collective 43 bargaining agreements 102-53 Contact point for 92 questions regarding the report 102-42 Identifying and 89 selecting stakeholders 102-54 Claims of reporting 88 in accordance with the GRI Standards 102-43 Approach to 89 stakeholder engagement 102-55 GRI content index 97-105 102-44 Key topics and 89 concerns raised 102-56 External assurance 91 REPORTING PRACTICE 102-45 Entities included in 16; 88 the consolidated financial statements 98 99 OMISSION OMISSION GRI PART OMITTED, REASON GRI PART OMITTED, REASON STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER/URL AND EXPLANATION STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER/URL AND EXPLANATION GRI 200 ECONOMIC GRI 205: 205-3 Confirmed incidents No incidents of STANDARD SERIES Anti-corruption 2016 of corruption and actions corruption were taken recorded in 2018 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE GRI 300 ENVIRONMENTAL GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the 38-39; 90 STANDARDS SERIES material topic and its Management Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management 10; 39 MATERIALS approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the 10 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the 38-39; 90 material topic and its management approach Approach 2016 Boundary GRI 201: Economic 201-1 Direct economic 10 103-2 The management 39; 62-63 value generated and approach and its Performance 2016 distributed components PROCUREMENT 103-3 Evaluation of the 39; 62-63 management approach PRACTICES GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the 39; 90 GRI 301: Materials 2016 301-1 Materials used by 63-64 material topic and its weight or volume Approach 2016 Boundary 103-2 The management 39; 58; 62-63 ENERGY approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the 62-63 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the 38-39; 90 material topic and its management approach Approach 2016 Boundary 103-2 The management 38; 82-84 GRI 204: Procurement 204-1 Proportion of 62 approach and its spending on local suppliers components Practices 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the 38; 82-84 ANTI-CORRUPTION management approach GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the 38-39; 90 GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption 84 material topic and its within the organization Approach 2016 Boundary WATER 103-2 The management 16-17; 39 approach and its components GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the 94 material topic and its 103-3 Evaluation of the 16-17 Approach 2016 Boundary management approach 103-2 The management 94 approach and its components 100 101 OMISSION OMISSION GRI PART OMITTED, REASON GRI PART OMITTED, REASON STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER/URL AND EXPLANATION STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER/URL AND EXPLANATION 103-3 Evaluation of the 94 ENVIRONMENTAL management approach COMPLIANCE GRI 303: Water 2016 303-1 Water withdrawal 94 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the 38-39; 90 by source material topic and its Approach 2016 Boundary EMISSIONS 103-2 The management 39; 90 approach and its components GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the 38-39; 90 103-3 Evaluation of the 16; 39 material topic and its management approach Approach 2016 Boundary 103-2 The management 38; 82-84 GRI 307: Environmental 307-1 Non-compliance with 16 approach and its environmental laws and components compliance 2016 regulations 103-3 Evaluation of the 38; 82-84 management approach GRI 400 SOCIAL STANDARDS SERIES GRI 305: Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) 85 GHG emissions 2016 EMPLOYMENT 305-2 Energy indirect 85 (Scope 2) GHG emissions GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the 38-39; 90 material topic and its Approach 2016 Boundary 305-3 Other indirect 85 (Scope 3) GHG emissions 103-2 The management 38; 42-43 approach and its components EFFLUENTS AND WASTE 103-3 Evaluation of the 42-43 management approach GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the 95 material topic and its Approach 2016 Boundary GRI 401: Employment 401-1 New employee hires 43; 47-48 and employee turnover 2016 103-2 The management 95 approach and its components 401-3 Parental leave 54 103-3 Evaluation of the 95 management approach OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY GRI 306: Effluents and 306-2 Waste by type and 95 disposal method waste 2016 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the 38-39; 90 material topic and its Approach 2016 Boundary 102 103 OMISSION OMISSION GRI PART OMITTED, REASON GRI PART OMITTED, REASON STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER/URL AND EXPLANATION STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER/URL AND EXPLANATION 103-2 The management 38; 42; 53 GRI 403: Occupational 403-9 Work-related injuries 53 approach and its components health and safety 2018 103-3 Evaluation of the 42; 53 management approach TRAINING AND EDUCATION GRI 403: Management 403-1 Occupational Occupational health GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the 38-39; 90 health and safety and safety management approach disclosure management system for Italian companies Approach 2016 material topic and its is based on the Italian Boundary 2018 legislation which defines periodic activities that have to be carried out in 103-2 The management 38; 50 order to ensure workers’ approach and its safety. components 403-2 Hazard Integral part of such 103-3 Evaluation of the 50 identification, risk activities is the management approach assessment, and incident identification of work investigation related hazards and risk assessments from which no significant risks have GRI 404: Training and 404-1 Average hours 50-51 of training per year per emerged. Education 2016 employee 403-3 Occupational 53 health services CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY 403-4 Worker These aspects are participation, managed in compliance GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the 38-39; 90 material topic and its consultation, and with the provisions of Approach 2016 Boundary communication on the Italian legislative occupational health and framework which safety requires the presence of at least one “Employee 103-2 The management 38; 65 Representative” as a approach and its mandatory role within components the Occupational health and safety management system. 103-3 Evaluation of the 65 management approach 403-5 Worker training on Pg. 50; based on the occupational health and Italian Legislation, training safety on health and safety GRI 416: Customer 416-1 Assessment of the 65 is mandatory for all health and safety impacts employees; length and Health and Safety of product and service type of training is based 2016 categories on worker’s role and level of risk. 416-2 Incidents of non65 compliance concerning 403-6 Promotion of The Group did not the health and safety worker health provide any additional impacts of products and non-occupational services medical and healthcare services. 403-7 Prevention and Sergio Rossi does not have mitigation of occupational in place a process to analyze health and safety impacts potentially significant directly linked by business negative occupational relationships health and safety impacts that are directly linked to its operations, products or services by its business 104 relationships. 105
