UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Extract from ELIS 2018 Registration Document Saint-Cloud, 17th April 2019 Xavier MARTIRÉ Chairman of the Management Board We empower your day Summary INTRODUCTION 4 4 ENVIRONMENTAL RISKS 17 CSR COMMITMENTS 4 4.1 Having the required environmental 17 “Elis is the European and Latin American leader in the rental, HUMAN RESOURCES 6 permits for our activities laundry and maintenance of flat linen, workwear, and hygiene and 4.2 Sustainable use of water resources 18 well-being appliances, and plays a pioneering role in its business 1 BUSINESS MODEL 8 4.3 Wastewater management 19 sector. This leadership position rewards the work of the entire Elis A strategy for added economic, 4.4 Changes in costs related to energy workforce and makes us all the more committed to being an environmental and social value 8 consumption 20 ethical, responsible and eco-friendly company.” 4.5 Reduction in fuel consumption 22 2 THE GROUP’S APPROACH Xavier Martiré – Chairman of the Management Board TO CSR10 10 5 RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING 23 2.1 Vision 10 2.2 The Group’s commitments 10 10 6 THE FIGHT AGAINST 2.3 CSR Policy 10 CORRUPTION 2.4 Assessment of non-financial risks 11 AND INFLUENCE PEDDLING 23 3 EMPLOYEE-RELATED RISKS 13 13 7 SUMMARY OF ENVIRONMENTAL 3.1 Ongoing dialogue with employees 13 13 AND SOCIAL INFORMATION 24 3.2 Managing short-term absenteeism 14 14 7.1 Summary of environmental information 25 3.3 Health and safety 15 15 7.2 Summary of social information 25 3.4 Talent acquisition 16 16 8 CROSS-REFERENCE WITH THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 25 CSR COMMITMENTS Improving our performance regarding A responsible model 30.7% natural resource consumption Elis has optimized its industrial processes so that it is able by nature to deliver top-quality laundering while significantly reducing water savings its consumption of water, energy and detergent. To make since 2010 this possible, Elis is pursuing a proactive investment policy dedicated to improving its environmental performance. 2020 goal achieved In Barcelona, for example, the new Elis plant is equipped with solar panels that generate much of the energy in 2016 needed for laundering linens. The Elis business model is based on the product–service system, favoring services over products and rental over purchase. The goal of this system is to deliver a responsible, high-quality offering that puts the least amount 25.8% energy savings of pressure on natural resources and the environment. since 2010 PRODUCTS AND SERVICES 2020 goal achieved in 2018 19.5% SUPPLIERS Promoting sustainable choices detergent savings A SUSTAINABLE Elis’s rental, laundry and maintenance model AND RESPONSIBLE allows its customers to enjoy its services without per kilogram of laundry REPAIR CLIENT-FOCUSED having to purchase the associated products washed since 2010 AND RECYCLING PROCESS LOGISTICS (such as linen, workwear, etc.). This approach maximizes the use of a product by encouraging its repair, reuse and recycling. At the same time, Frédéric Deletombe, Engineering, Purchasing and Elis asks its suppliers to adhere to its social and Supply Chain Director environmental requirements by appending a responsible and ethical purchasing charter to each purchasing contract. To ensure the sector’s economic viability, the Group is careful to ensure that the entire supply chain applies a reasonable pricing policy. For example, Elis has been a partner Sustainability is in LAUNDRY/MAINTENANCE of the international fair trade label Fairtrade/Max Havelaar for a decade. our DNA. Today, we are working on Increasing the value of our products When developing a new offering, Elis apply rigorous two key areas: technical specifications that take into account a product's life cycle and durability. Considerations optimizing the life include source reduction, product maintenance and the recycling of used materials. Textiles are spans of our products therefore designed to withstand a higher average number of washes, damaged workwear is repaired, and improving their and textiles that have reached the end of their useful lives are sorted and turned into rags for the environmental and automotive or aerospace industry or used as an insulation material. social performance. 4 5 HUMAN RESOURCES With this interest in attracting the most Employees are key promising talent in mind, Elis readily puts its young hires into positions of significant responsibility. to our performance Develop and unite For Elis, respect for others is the most important of all its values. The Company does its utmost to reconcile the challenges of a global Group with managing talent at the local level. This approach is reflected in The Elis Foundation the close contact between management The Elis Foundation was created at the end As a company built over the years on a cornerstone of values and and field teams. of 2018 to promote equal opportunity while expertise, Elis places great importance on the engagement of its rewarding excellence. With this in mind, the Foundation decided to support deserving employees. The Group shares a strong brand culture with its employees French high school graduates whose financial situations preclude them from and unites them in a desire to constantly improve performance. following an ambitious career path. The Foundation’s goal is to help these students pursue higher education. In addition to a scholarship, the Foundation assigns an Elis employee mentor to each recipient. Attracting and retaining talent The mentor's role is to stay in touch with the student, help and encourage them, During its 60 years of growth, Elis has forged a unique and provide advice during their studies. identity based on operational excellence. Needless to say, the first people to exemplify this excellence are the Group’s employees. Hiring and retaining top talent Didier Lachaud, 31% is therefore a strategic priority for the Company. To Human Resources and CSR Director raise its profile and attractiveness, Elis has established a powerful employer brand promoting its strengths, of managers including the Group’s international scope, its culture of excellence and its spirit of innovation. Today, are women almost 50,000 people work for Elis worldwide. Their i.e., a six-point increase professionalism, commitment and know-how are the foundation for the company’s performance, which Our ability to attract Every employee can count on his or her manager in three years goes hand in hand with their own career success and and retain top talent is to support them on a daily basis, both in their work tasks and their progression. Careers at the personal development. Despite a shortage of talent, Elis is still pursuing a rigorous recruitment policy that one of the Group’s key Group are built over time, sometimes in a number addresses two sets of challenges: firstly, generational of different countries. It recently broadened strategic HR priorities. 93.6% challenges, to take the expectations of young hires into its international exchange programs to new destinations, such as Spain, Portugal and Brazil, account; and secondly, cultural challenges, since an increasing proportion of employees work in developing As such, Elis goes to support the Group’s major expansion in those countries. Another of Elis’s priorities is the quality of Proportion of countries and it is important to transmit the Group’s values and know-how to them. to great lengths its in-house training. The Group recently developed full-time employees to use a proactive new programs to address the challenges it is facing, particularly in the areas of management Our values policy to highlight and leadership. For example, the newly launched Sales Academy will provide more advanced sales 32% its strengths and force training. especially its culture, The effectiveness of the Elis model is strengthened by a strong culture of friendliness as a way for of new managers are promoted which is considered employees to engage. The best example of this is Elis’s “Club des Chevrons” (Chevrons Club), internally Respect Integrity Responsibility Exemplarity a major competitive which has been recognizing the most deserving production and maintenance staff for more than advantage. 30 years. In addition to taking part in student forums and forming partnerships with educational institutions, Elis is investing in internal programs aimed at young graduates, such as the Management Trainee Program, which among other things provides them with an opportunity to begin their careers in an international environment. 6 7 1 1. BUSINESS MODEL A STRATEGY FOR ADDED ECONOMIC, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL VALUE Strategy 1 Resources Mission Value for profitable created CUSTOMERS To make its customers’ lives easier and contribute to their success and sustainable growth through a sustainable, responsible process ❯ 4  00,000 customers of all sizes CUSTOMERS across sectors ❯ A  bility to focus on core ❯ F our segments: Hospitality, business Healthcare, Industry, and ❯  6% satisfaction rate in France, 8 Trade & Services Belgium and Luxembourg PRODUCTS Consolidation of Group positions through ❯  ore than a century M ❯  ore than 2/3 of contracts M of know-how AND SERVICES organic growth and acquisitions now multi-service HUMAN RESOURCES EMPLOYEES ❯ Nearly 50,000 employees SUPPLIERS ❯ 5 3% women ❯ Spread across 28 countries ❯ 9,114 new hires in 2018 ❯ 9  ,881 employees in A SUSTAINABLE 10 countries took an employee FINANCES AND RESPONSIBLE survey REPAIR CLIENT-FOCUSED 400,000 ❯ Company listed on Euronext AND RECYCLING Regular entry into new markets and new (SBF 120) to finance growth PROCESS LOGISTICS S trong business model geographic regions INVESTORS customers ❯ ensuring profitable growth Since the IPO: ❯  €213 million paid to + shareholders FACILITIES ❯ A  verage annual revenue ❯  40 processing and 4 growth of +30.3% dispatching centers ❯  verage annual EBITDA margin A ❯ Fleet of 6,000 vehicles growth of +30.2% ❯  28 ISO 14001-certified sites 1 and 77 ISO 50001-certified LAUNDRY/MAINTENANCE Continued improvement of the Group’s sites operational excellence THE PLANET ❯ A  responsible industrial ❯ R  eduction plan since 2010 in model based on the line with 2020 targets (−25%) product–service system for: • Water: 30.7% • Energy: 25.8% BRAND • Laundry products: 19.5% ❯ Recognized leadership ❯  ew slogan, “We empower N your day” to embody the Customers at the core of the Group’s DNA brand’s DNA Elis offers solutions that help • Customer Experience department Innovative products and services its clients put their best foot forward daily, thereby • In-house Customer Satisfaction program improving their performance • Customer Voice program created in 2017 every single day • Almost 50,000 satisfaction surveys per year 8 9 2 2. THE GROUP’S APPROACH TO CSR Continuously reduce the environmental footprint Be a vector of personal development of our business and well-being for our employees 2.1 VISION ❯❯ Promote more sustainable choices that include reducing, ❯❯ Work together to en s u re the wel l bei ng a nd s afet y of reusing or recycling our raw materials and products. our employees. Elis’s primar y responsibilit y is to ensure the well-being and Respect for those principles and values is a major factor in the ❯❯ Increa s e the va lue of our product s by im proving their ❯❯ Allow everyone to grow both personally and professionally. p rofe s s io na l d eve lo p ment of it s em p loyees. O u r hu ma n Group’s positive reputation and performance. ecodesign, life cycle and end-of-life recovery. resources are a pillar of the culture that underpins everything ❯❯ Promote diversity and equal opportunity. The Elis Group does not compromise when it comes to integrity, ❯❯ Improve our per forma nce in term s of natura l resource we do. This culture is based on the values that have been the The key elements for the sustainable growth of Elis’s business are wh ich it bel i eves mu s t govern it s b u s i nes s relation s a nd consumption (water, energy, fuel) to limit greenhouse gas core of Elis’s DNA from the very beginning: respect for others, the Elis experience, employees who take pride in the Company professional practices every single day. emissions and the direct and indirect environmental impact exemplarity, integrity and responsibility. and its values, and shareholder confidence. Individual buy-in The Group’s business model is based on the concept of the of our business. Our Group’s ethical and responsible conduct are the key to at all levels of the Group is essential to ensure the success of product–service system and offering a range of high-quality this approach and, by extension, total customer satisfaction. our success and longevity. products and services. This business model, which is centered 2 R e s p e c t fo r ot h e r s a n d exe m p l a r y c o n d u c t u n d e r a l l around the life cycle of its products, has led the Group to circumstances are factors that contribute to our employee’s improve both their ecodesign and sustainability, in contrast job sati sfaction. The principles that are s hared by all Eli s to tra d itiona l mod es of con s u m ption, w h i ch encou ra g e 2.4 ASSESSMENT OF NON-FINANCIAL RISKS employees can be summarized as follows: disposable products or planned obsolescence, this business model puts less pressure on the environment. ❯❯ act with integrity, responsibility, and exemplarity; Methodology The Group’s business model, which reflects the value chain of ❯❯ respect the dignity and rights of others; In addition, the following social aspects were not considered Elis’s products and services, is described in chapter 1. T h e H u m a n Re s o u rce s , Q u a l i t yS a fet yEnv i ro n m e nt a n d ❯❯ act in an environmentally-friendly way; Purchasing departments have formed an in-house working to pose a s ignifica nt ri s k to Eli s’s bu s ines s activities: food group to describe and assess the CSR risks that could affect insecurity, animal welfare, responsible, fair and sustainable ❯❯ comply with all laws and regulations; the Elis Group’s performance. Its work is based on the Group’s food, and the fight against food waste. ❯❯ continuously improve performance. business model. The Group’s business and the use of its goods and services This business model is described in chapter 1. are not considered to have a significant impact on climate change. The main greenhouse ga s emi s s ions are related The risks identified and examined cover the following four areas: to thermal and electrical energy and fuel. The mea sures 2.2 THE GROUP’S COMMITMENTS ❯❯ the social impact of our business; implemented by the Group to reduce these emissions are The Group’s commitments are demonstrated by the priority The Charter is furthermore intended to form the foundation indirectly exposed through the corresponding material risks. ❯❯ the environmental impact of our business; given to employee comfort and safety, the attention paid to on which all internal standards and charters adopted by the The impact of climate change on the availabilit y of water employees’ career development, the promotion of the true Group are based. Those include the Sustainable and Ethical ❯❯ the impact of our business with regard to human rights; resources is addressed in section 4.2. value of work, and profit sharing. Purchasing Char ter, the Code of Conduct for Trading and ❯❯ the impact of our business with regard to the fight against T h i s d o c u m e nt w i l l n ot f u r t h e r e l a b o ra te o n co r p o ra te Market Activities, and methods developed by the Group to corruption. commitments to sustainable development and the circular Its Ethics Charter states the principles that apply to everything combat the risk of corruption. economy. Because our business model is based on the product– the Company does and provides a reference framework for Some thirty risks were identified and entered into a risk matrix. what the Group expects from its employees, its leadership The Ethics Charter and its principles apply to the Group as service system, our strategy consists of enhancing the useful Elis assessed the likelihood of each risk’s occurrence, as well as and its par tners. The Char ter is intended to help ever yone a whole and to all of its activities, whether with regard to lives of our textiles and recycling our waste. Furthermore, Elis its potential consequences at the legal and operational level seek out and make the right decision in any given situation, in its employees, to the way it does business with its suppliers, locates its operations where its customers are and is involved and on brand image. This enabled Elis to identify its material accordance with the prevailing laws and regulations in each customers and stakeholders, or to its activities with other in those communities. risks. of the countries where the Group operates. players. This study and the accompanying assessment were validated The Charter sets out rules of conduct all stakeholders must All Group employees, regardless of rank, whom they report by two members of the Executive Committee. Some risks were adopt in four major areas: to, or geographical region of activity must simultaneously be taken into account even though the matrix did not suggest promoters and guardians of this Ethics Charter. they would be material. ❯❯ protecting employees; The Group’s principles are consistent with the fundamental Of the ri s ks a s ses sed a s material, the following were not ❯❯ acting with all stakeholders with integrity, responsibility, and principles laid down by: selected: exemplarity; ❯❯ the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights ❯❯ the im pact on econom ic per forma nce a nd em ployee ❯❯ protecting Group assets; and the European Convention on Human Rights; working conditions of collective bargaining agreements ❯❯ limiting environmental impact. entered into within the Group; good labor relations mean ❯❯ the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child; that the Group negotiates balanced collective bargaining ❯❯ the United Nations Global Compact. agreements that protect the interests of both the Group and its employees; ❯❯ the risks related to initiatives aimed at combating discrimination 2.3 CSR POLICY and promoting diversity and measures taken for people with disabilities; the Company is committed to promoting diversity Elis’s CSR policy aligns with the Group’s overall strategy, which Offer high-quality, responsible products and equal opportunity without these initiatives creating any focuses on customer satisfaction, the abilit y to enter new and services risk for the Group or the Company itself. regions and markets, and generating continued, profitable a nd su sta inable grow th. Eli s strives to provide a working ❯❯ Promote ❯❯ Ensure that our ❯❯ Ensure that environment that respects human rights and promotes diversity and develop products are the entire while limiting its environmental footprint. our business manufactured value chain model around with respect complies The Group wants to lead by example, particularly through its the circular for others while with Elis’s integrity and honesty, and to share its values with its employees economy. safeguarding the Ethics and partners. environment. Charter. El i s’s c o m m i t m e nt s i n te r m s of 3 6 0 d e g re e s o c i a l a n d environmental responsibility are as follows: 10 11 2 3. EMPLOYEE-RELATED RISKS Summary of material non-financial risks and key performance indicators Social Environment Responsible purchasing 3.1 ONGOING DIALOGUE WITH EMPLOYEES ❯❯ Labor relations ❯❯ Environmental permits allowing us ❯❯ Responsible Number of countries that conducted an to conduct business purchasing Challenge employee survey in 2018 and number of Number of countries with a system unethical practices employees surveyed to manage environmental permits on the part of As a company that is committed to its employees’ wellbeing, Elis makes every effort to ensure ongoing close contact between % of employees working at centers or ❯❯ Availability and sustainable our suppliers in management and employees at every level. Since the Group’s employees ensure the quality of its service, the trust that the Group in countries with stable or increasing management of water resources conducting their builds every day through its interactions with them is essential. revenue (when comparison is possible) Ratio of water consumption in liters businesses ❯❯ Occupational health and safety per kg of linen treated Percentage of direct purchases ❯ ❯ NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES ❯ ❯ BREAKDOWN OF TOTAL WORKFORCE Frequency rate Wastewater management ❯❯ covered by a CSR (PERMANENT AND NON-PERMANENT) ❯❯ Absenteeism Percentage of wastewater treated assessment 47,291* BY REGION AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2018 3 Percentage of employees present before being discharged into the natural throughout the year who had no days environment 49% absent during the year ❯❯ Changes in costs related to energy Number of days absent, paid or consumption unpaid, for absences lasting less Energy costs (in millions of euros) 24,321 than seven days 20,008 21,729 Thermal energy consumption ratio Percentage of short absences (up to 14,803 16,018 28% (excluding fuel for vehicles) in kWh per kg seven days) out of all absences of linen treated 23% ❯❯ Recruitment of key personnel ❯❯ Availability of fossil fuel resources Recruitment rate of permanent staff for delivery vehicles (number of permanent hires/permanent Ratio of fuel consumed in liters per euro staff as of December 31) of revenue 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 France Europe Latin * Scope of CSR. (excluding France) America Elis implements appropriate policies with relevant indicators to prevent, identify and mitigate the occurrence of these risks. For each indicator, the scope covered is specified in order to Reporting scope calculate the rate of coverage. Policy Employee representation The declaration of non-financial performance applies to all As is standard: Ever y day, at each site, Elis employees create value. This Employee regulations are specific to each country. Therefore, of Elis’s business, including all of its subsidiaries in all countries value is the fruit of a close relationship between the Company employee bodies are set up accordingly. ❯❯ the coverage rate for social indicators is calculated on of operation. and its employees that has always been built on a common For example, in France in 2018 and 2019, new employee the basis of the number of employees (total employees of ❯❯ There were no disposals in 2018. vision and ambition that naturally promote and contribute to representative bodies created by the Order of September 22, 2017 contributing entities/total consolidated employees); ❯❯ The legal entities acquired in 2018 (BW Textilservice GmbH performance. have gradually been introduced at different sites. ❯❯ the coverage rate for environmental indicators is calculated in Germany, Blanchisserie Basse Meuse in Belgium, Ardenne on the basis of revenue. In 2018, the first meeting of the European Works Council was & Meuse Logistic SA in Belgium, Wäscherei Waiz GmbH in Actions held, which brought together representatives from all Elis Germany, Lavanderias Triton S.L. in Spain) were not included centers in the European Union. in the 2018 report. Transmitting our values ❯❯ They will be included in the 2019 repor t or, at the latest, Employee surveys the 2020 report (in order to set up reporting and ensure it is reliable). The commitment of each individual is key to the Group’s success. This commitment is measured periodically through ❯❯ W he re a p p l i ca b l e, n ew e nt it i e s ha ve b ee n a d d ed to a survey sent to all employees, who respond individually and the reporting scope (those acquired before 2017 but not anonymously. included in the 2017 report, and entities acquired in 2017). This employee survey is a key indicator of Elis’s human resource policy and is also used in the former Berendsen countries. Elis’s long-held values are an integral part of our social policy: It demonstrates the importance attached to corporate climate ❯❯ respect for others: accept everyone’s differences, recognize and the working environment at every level. everyone’s commitment, value each contribution; Employees can thus give their opinions on a variety of issues such ❯❯ integrity: remain true to our values, respect our commitments, as working conditions, training, career development, working be honest; time and safet y via anonymous individual questionnaires. The highly anticipated results of each employee survey make ❯❯ responsibility: listen to our customers and our employees, it possible to determine areas of improvement for each center. work to protect the environment and be involved at the local level, take responsibility for the quality of our service; ❯❯ exemplarity: serve as an example to all, both internally and Key performance indicator (KPI) and outcomes externally, embody the company’s values in everything that 24 countries a nd t wo s ites in B razil periodica lly conduct we do, remain humble. employee surveys. These values, which Elis has transmitted to all of the former In 2018, a total of 9,881 employees in 10 countries responded Berendsen countries, were the topic of a new communications to an employee survey. campaign. In the centers or countries where a comparison can be made with previous surveys, the results were either stable or had improved for 87% of employees surveyed. 12 13 3 3.2 MANAGING SHORT-TERM ABSENTEEISM 3.3 HEALTH AND SAFETY Challenge Actions Challenge ❯❯ strengthening safety culture through training and providing materials that promote safety; Absenteeism is a reality that affects the Group. Preventative measures For the Elis Group, the health and safety of its employees and everyone else at its sites is paramount. To this end, it strives to ❯❯ sharing feedback and best practices; In our business, unexpected and short-term absences impact Each center ha s introduced mea sures according to their offer a safe, healthy working environment by preventing the ❯❯ i ntrod uci ng a rei nforced f i re p revention p rog ra m a nd us the most. These absences have a variety of consequences: specific issues: occurrence of workplace accidents, injuries and occupational continuing the fire protection strategy; ❯❯ c o m p a ny p ro d u ct i v i t y a n d p e r fo r m a n c e c a n s u f fe r: ❯❯ flu shots are offered every year at certain centers; illnes ses. With its ongoing expansion and entries into new production delays, quality issues, poor customer service; regions and markets, the Group wants to become an example ❯❯ integrating ergonomics and safety principles into all new ❯❯ some centers pay a bonus to employees who have perfect wo rk e q u i p m e nt a n d n ew p rod u ct i o n l i n e s w it h ma i n ❯❯ work teams must be reorganized on short notice to replace in terms of health and safety. or near-perfect attendance; suppliers; absent workers; ❯❯ in 2012, French entities introduced the Gest’Elis program, ❯❯ continuing the development of the Gest ’Eli s progra m, ❯❯ workloads must be redistributed, other employees must be Policy aimed primarily at preventing musculoskeletal disorders (see 3 i ncl ud i ng sol ution s to i m p rove works tation layout a nd asked to step in and put forth additional effort; below, which will be rolled out at various centers outside The Elis Group’s health and safety policy is designed to reduce equipment and tool s used, and producing information ❯❯ it represents a cost for the company in terms of administrative of France; the accident rate to zero by improving workplace safety. This s heets for each job concerned featuring details about and replacement costs, plus it can have an indirect financial ❯❯ training ses s ions on job s pecific body movements and means reducing risks, preventing accidents, and implementing correct posture and comfort and safety precautions; impact related to repercussions on customer service quality postures are provided to production and distribution staff. Group safety standards in all countries and across all activities ❯❯ holding safety committee meetings at sites. (dissatisfaction that must be dealt with, contract longevity by ensuring the involvement of all employees. that could be affected, etc.). T h e Cl u s te r/C o u nt r y Q S E te a m s h a ve a s s i s te d w i t h t h e Return-to-work interview The Group is committed to a process of continuous improvement improvement plans within their respective scopes of activity: to reduce the number of risk situations. Its priorities are to Ma nagement may set up a n informa l inter view af ter a n Policy strengthen the Group’s safety culture by promoting and raising ❯❯ for example, in Brazil, local operational teams conducted employee returns from a shortor long-term absence. Returnawa renes s , preventing fire a nd ha ndling ri s ks , improving multiple safety presentations and training sessions based Although each absence has its own particular characteristics to -work inter views allow the Company to demonstrate to workstation ergonomics, and preventing business-specific risks. on their regras de ouro (golden rules) during a s pecial and employers are not permitted to ask employees about the employees not only its concern for them but also how much Safety Week. A plant safety index has also been deployed, medical reasons for their absence, the Group has nevertheless absences impact its business. These interviews are conducted based on self-assessments of key preventative measures. im p lemented a s eries of collective mea s u res to prevent in full compliance with medical confidentiality obligations. Measures implemented The index is reviewed monthly by the country’s management absences and limit their impact on its business. The interviews update employees about the center and how As part of the integration of Berendsen, Elis has increased the committee; business is going and gauge how employees feel about their number of corporate staff dedicated to safety and defined a ❯❯ fol lowi ng i n the exa m p le of Fra nce, Por tuga l a nd work and the qualit y of life in the workplace. Appropriate new organizational structure that focuses on quality, safety and Switzerland in 2016 and 2017, employees in Spain identified measures may be taken following these interviews. the environment. In each operating region, the Cluster/Country and eliminated risks during World Day for Safety and Health QSE teams work closely with the Group QSE Department to at Work; Versatility help improve and strengthen the Group’s safety standards. The company encourages employee versatility so that they These teams also assist countries and sites with operational ❯❯ more than 10 0 staff members in France were trained on how can step into a variety of positions at the processing centers deployment and monitoring their application. to perform risk analyses and make prevention plans for all to replace an absent colleague. The most straight for ward the pest control services carried out on customers’ premises; The measures introduced in 2018 with the support of the QSE pos itions are t ypically filled by employees on temporar y network primarily involved: ❯❯ in the United Kingdom and several Scandinavian countries, contracts. occupational risk prevention has been strengthened by the ❯❯ standardizing incident and accident reporting and safety introduction of dashboards that make it easier to identify indicators for all operations; risk situations at Group sites. Key performance indicator (KPI) and outcomes Key performance indicator (KPI) and outcomes Number of absences shorter than seven days (paid or unpaid): 84,820. With the support of the Group’s Human Resources Department and those in each of the countries, reporting on safety indicators, In 2018, the coverage rate was 62% frequency rates (FR) and severity rates (SR) has gradually been implemented in all Elis’s countries of operation, including former Berendsen countries. (Permanent and non-permanent staff) 2018 ❯ ❯ NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES WITH PERFECT ❯ ❯ BREAKDOWN OF DAYS ABSENT Fatal accidents 0 ATTENDANCE Lost time accidents 1,658 Frequency rate (a) 19.15 Severity rate (b) 0.71 No days absent (a) Frequency rate = Number of accidents resulting in lost time, excluding commuting accidents, during the year/Total number of theoretical 43% Fewer than hours worked × 1,0 0 0,0 0 0. 7 days absent (b) Severity rate = Number of calendar days of lost work due to workplace accidents with lost work of more than 1 day, excluding commuting 15% accidents/Total number of theoretical hours worked × 1,0 0 0. In 2018, the coverage rate was 10 0%. More than 7 days absent At least one day absent 85% 57% In 2018, the coverage rate was 66%. In 2018, the coverage rate was 62%. 14 15 3 3.4 TALENT ACQUISITION Key performance indicator (KPI) and outcomes Challenge In line with the creation of a strong international brand for the A total of 9,114 permanent new hires, 565 of them managers. Group, Elis is continuing to promote its employer brand and The Group’s development strategy relies on its ability to recruit In 2018, the coverage rate was 98%. will be providing all countries with new communication tools and retain competent, high-performing employees. to boost recruitment. Some profiles can be more dif ficult to recruit because of a labor market unsuited to our needs or due to challenges Programs aimed at young people Hiring rate of permanent staff (number of permanent hires/ related to our employer brand. ❯❯ Management Trainee program: each management trainee permanent staff as of December 31): 22%. This may result in problems performing certain services or impact under takes four projects over a t wo -year period. Each In 2018, the coverage rate was 98%. the quality of our services, or even lead to compliance issues. project lasts six months and two are international. The first and final project are conducted in the trainee’s country of origin, allowing them to create their own network and 4 Policy prepare for taking on their permanent role. Throughout the The Company must boost its at tractivenes s and increa se program, trainees interact with staff in different business lines ❯ ❯ BREAKDOWN OF NEW HIRES BY GENDER ❯ ❯ PERCENTAGE OF NEWLY HIRED WOMEN recognition to encourage people to join us. and from different operating departments. MANAGERS The Group’s Communications and Human Resources teams The program has been ex tended to all Group countries, 30% h a ve wo r ke d to g et h e r to d eve l o p a n ew s o c i a l m e d i a creating more attractive opportunities for potential young 27% Men co m m u n i ca t i o n s s t ra te g y a i m e d a t p ro m ot i n g t h e j o b s managers. The variety of our business lines and locations 25% 55% available within the Group and increa s ing the applicant means that we can offer them a multitude of opportunities. pool, as well as uniting employees and strengthening internal ❯❯ International exchange programs: young people are hired cohesion. Women and trained in the Group’s key business lines (in the production and sales segments), then sent to another country for 12 to 45% Actions 24 months to complete their training, share best practices and strengthen the Group’s culture. The first exchange programs Targeted partnerships took place in 2013 and involved young Spaniards coming to France. Additional exchanges were then organized between Targeted partnerships with schools and universities are being 2016 2017 2018 Brazil and Por tugal. Similar exchanges will be organized developed in countries experiencing recruitment problems, between the UK and Germany in the coming months before In 2018, the coverage rate was 93%. the goal being to attract interns or apprentices. Center visits being extended to other countries. In 2018, the coverage rate was 93%. are being organized and the Group is participating in open houses at schools and universities to introduce the Group and Onboarding program its business lines. To help new employees settle in, onboarding is arranged for 4. ENVIRONMENTAL RISKS For example, we have formed a close partnership with the every new hire. This onboarding is developed in each country ICAM engineering school, which has a number of campuses according to the position being filled. A new integration kit is in France, and developed relationships in Portugal with the currently being deployed in all Group countries. It contains 4.1 HAVING THE REQUIRED ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS FOR OUR ACTIVITIES University of Algarve, University of Minho, University of Lisbon information for new employees as well as tools and resources and University of Porto. that can be adapted to suit different situations. Challenge Measures implemented Elis Talent Month Industrial laundry operations are subject to particularly strict Partnership with AFORP Organizational structure vis-à-vis the environment • environmental regulations. In most of the countries where Elis Launch of a new event: March will now be dedicated to does business, such operations require a number of separate The Group’s Quality, Safety and Environment (QSE) manager, improving Elis’s image as an employer. The aim is to expand In France, and specifically in the Paris region, Elis has permits to cover industrial operations, chemical storage, who reports to the Group Engineering and Purchasing Director, our talent pool and present ourselves to the world as a global experienced problems in recent years hiring maintenance withdrawal of water resources from the natural environment, is a member of the Executive Committee and is responsible for organization. technicians suited to our industrial environment. Elis has and the discharge of industrial wastewater. defining the Group’s environmental policy and environmental therefore teamed up with AFORP, a trade school for risk prevention policy. A team of environmental engineers In France, for example, each French processing site that washes young people and adults, to offer an on-the-job training Promotions assists her with regulatory compliance management. more than five tons of linen per day is subject to a prefecturalprogram. The program was jointly developed specifically Elis recognizes and develops the skills of all employees to level operating authorization or regi stration requirement, In the countries where Elis operates, QSE operational teams, or for Elis by AFORP trainers and Elis managers. Training promote mobility and career development. pursuant to France’s regulation on classified facilities for the sometimes teams specifically dedicated to the environment, alternates between theory learned in the classroom and protection of the environment (ICPE), which sets, among other suppor t the operational depar tments and help sites deal practical training at Elis sites, and the program teaches Certain vacant positions are filled through internal promotion. things, limits on water withdrawal, discharges into water, air with the competent authorities to obtain, modif y or renew skills that correspond perfectly to our needs. In 2018, a total of 1,239 positions were filled this way. emissions and waste management. permits. The tea m s a re a l so res pons ible for helping s ites manage environmental indicators and follow environmental Policy best practices. Similar partnerships are currently being set up in the Paris region 31% of new managers to cover the skills for which there is a shortage of qualified Operational deployment at each processing center is handled are promoted internally. Elis makes every effort to ensure that it is in compliance with workers. by a network of environmental officers (the plants’ technical legal requirements, regardless of the country of operations, managers), who are trained in environmental best practices. and that its industrial laundries have the necessary approvals Promoting our employer brand and permits covering the entire operating cycle. Environmental compliance To become better known and be able to recruit these types of individuals, Elis must increase its visibility among students Since 2018, all Group countries have implemented a system and more experienced professionals. This objective can be to manage each site’s environmental permits. Whenever it achieved through the Group’s presence on social media, acquires a new company, Elis performs environmental due which helps to both enhance the employer brand and provide diligence and systematically checks that the operator i s information about job opportunities. compliant with local regulator y requirements and has the necessary permits. 16 17 4 ❯❯ recycling of wastewater discharged from plants to partially Key performance indicator (KPI) and outcomes To support its environmental management system and promote its efforts in this area to replenish the washing process with new water; In 2018, 130 plants in the Elis North countries (integrated following stakeholders, Elis holds ISO 14001 certification for a total of 128 sites, mainly in Germany (24), ❯❯ updating of washing equipment as soon as possible; the Berendsen acquisition) updated their indicators in order to Sweden (24), Denmark (18), Spain (19), Norway (9), the Netherlands (9) and Poland (7). ❯❯ selection and management of the detergents used for the standardize how they managed their water consumption and industrial process (which affects water consumption); performance with the rest of the Group. ❯❯ gradual replacement of powdered detergents with liquid Investments in environmental provisions and compliance detergents, which are easier to rinse and therefore consume Ratio of water consumed per kg less new water. Elis invests in compliance and in improving its environmental government environmental agencies, and the remediation of linen treated: 9.6. performance ever y year. The amounts invested are mainly of closed facilities. Matching water needs with local resources In 2018, the coverage rate was 98% (industrial laundry sites). allocated to improving the on site pretreatment of water El i s a l s o re g u l a r ly a s s e s s e s it s e nv i ro n m e nta l p rov i s i o n s , discharges, monitoring action plans following inspections by When choosing sites for its new processing plants, Elis conducts especially when acquiring new companies. a hydrogeological survey to determine whether its water supply 4 can be obtained from wells or from other sources (recycled Key performance indicator (KPI) and outcomes Annual use of water for the Group’s water, municipal water, etc.) and consults with the competent authorities regarding the technical and regulatory feasibility business: Water consumption of the provision of process water. (in millions of m3): 16.3. Number of countries with a system for managing environmental permits: 100%. When planning to expand its operations, Elis verifies whether In 2018, the coverage rate was 98% (all sites). In 2018, the coverage rate was 100%. it has sufficient supply and implements measures to adapt to local constraints. AMOUNTS AND RESOURCES DEDICATED TO COMPLIANCE AND PREVENTION Before acquiring a new company, Elis performs environmental audits and systematically checks that the operator has the ❯ ❯ WATER CONSUMPTION – L/KG – FRANCE OF ENVIRONMENTAL RISK AND POLLUTION necessary resources. 100 (In millions of euros) 2018 95 92 Compliance costs 5.4 The Group also complies with any exceptional measures that 85 83 Environmental provisions and guarantees 69.4 may be determined by the authorities in the event of drought: 78 74 72 these go hand-in-hand with the continuous reduction of water 69 Compensation paid for environmental litigation 0.0 consumption. In 2018, the coverage rate was 10 0%. Climate change 4.2 SUSTAINABLE USE OF WATER RESOURCES T h e m e a s u re s i m p l e m e nte d by El i s to re d u ce i t s wa te r consumption have helped reduce the potential consequences of droughts. Challenge Thanks to a concerted capital expenditure program and the deployment and promotion of water saving best practices, the R i s ks re l a te d to c l i m a te c h a n g e a l s o i n c l u d e p ote nt i a l Unlike traditiona l modes of cons umption, the renta l a nd Elis Group has reduced its water consumption per kilogram of changes to flood risk prevention programs. Elis is incorporating 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 maintenance model – which fully fits into the product–service linen treated between 2% to 5% per year since 20 08. appropriate constructive measures when building its new system – ena b les Grou p cu stomer s to benef it f rom El i s’s buildings. services without having to purchase any products (workwear, In France, for instance, Elis achieved its water-saving target etc.). This model simplifies customers’ lives while also reducing to reduce water consumption 25% by 2020 in December 2016. pres s ure on natura l resources a nd the environment. Thi s approach also extends products’ service lives and maximizes Water 4.3 WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT 30.7% t hei r u s e by nat u ra l ly p romoti ng thei r repa i r, reu s e a nd recycling. Challenge Policy In 20 0 8, the Eli s Group par ticipated in the “Chantier 31” savings per kilogram working group to study the product–service system as part of of laundry washed since 2010 Since the nature of wastewater from laundries is the same T he El i s Grou p en s u res that it ha s d i scha rg e perm it s for France’s Grenelle de l’Environnement initiative. Specifically, AREA: FRANCE as household wastewater, the vast majority of Elis’s laundry the wa stewater resulting from activities and manages its it demonstrated the benefits of this model on its workwear fa c i l i t i e s a re c o n n e cte d to t h e m u n i c i p a l wa s tewa te r wastewater in accordance with local regulatory requirements. ser vice. Thi s ser vice’s life cycle a na lys i s wa s updated in networks in France and other European countries. All industrial It has been committed to reducing its water consumption for 2015. Through proces s optimization, Elis’s workwear rental wastewater discharged into municipal networks is pretreated many years and, consequently, the volume of its industrial and laundry service is able to reduce water consumption by Measures implemented or treated on site before being discharged. It is then treated wastewater discharges: one cubic meter of unused water saves nearly 50% compared to a solution based on the purchase of by a municipal wastewater treatment plant. The permanence one cubic meter of discharged wastewater. workwear and in-house laundering. Reduction in water consumption of these connections, or of the pos s ibilit y of di scharging In a dd ition, tha nks to the s elfmon itori ng of wa stewater wastewater into the natural environment itself once it has Water supply is crucial to operating an industrial laundry, in The optimization measures implemented in recent years have per formed through regular analyses at most sites, the Elis been treated, is key to growing the Group’s business while large part due to the activity of washing laundry. The Group’s been based on the following: Group has acquired indepth knowledge of the qualit y of limiting its impact on the natural environment. p ro c e s s i n g c e nte r s o bta i n t h e i r wa te r e i t h e r f ro m a n its wastewater and is working on improving it. Depending on ❯❯ widespread use of heavy-duty tunnel washers: equipped In many European countries, discharges into water are subject local conditions, some of Elis’s plants may have their own underground supply (wells) or from the public drinking water with separate compartments, they allow laundry to progress to authorizations by local authorities (discharge agreement or water treatment and pretreatment stations to ensure consistent system. through the different processing stages by moving from one decree) setting the conditions for discharges into municipal discharges and quality levels. compartment to another; networks before treatment at wastewater treatment plants. Policy Elis laundries are in regular contact with public sanitation ❯❯ regular monitoring of plants’ water meters to prevent any losses; When so required by local regulations, these specifications are services. In the event of changes in the quality or volume of In accordance with its Quality, Health, Safety and Environment also included in environmental permits covering discharges to ❯❯ 44 waterand energy-related audits conducted; a site’s discharges, Elis reviews the potential measures to be policy, Elis’s environmental commitments are primarily aimed municipal treatment plants or into the natural environment. implemented with the competent local authorities. If need at furthering the circular economy aspect of its business model ❯❯ optimization of washing equipment (fine-tuning of water be, the Group will invest in processes based on the treatment and improving its performance in terms of natural resource flow monitoring) and related washing programs; capacities of the local authorities and the local regulations consumption. ❯❯ recycling of washing equipment; in each country. 18 19 4 Measures implemented ❯❯ in Denmark, project under way with a university to study In Norway, three sites have been awarded the Nordic Swan Key performance indicator (KPI) and outcomes microplastics in wastewater; Ecolabel for textile services, a standard that sets strict limits on The key measures implemented in 2018 to prevent the risks of energy consumption. In Denmark, 17 plants also have Nordic water pollution are as follows: ❯❯ in France, implementation of the self-monitoring required Ecolabel certification. under the new ministerial decree for laundries that includes Amount spent on energy ❯❯ selfmonitoring of industrial wa stewater in accordance with the requirements of industrial wastewater discharge relevant micropollutants; commis sioning of a biological Since 2010, the French segment has improved its performance (in millions of euros): 120.6. wastewater treatment station at a plant in southwest France by 25.8% , exceeding the target of a 25% reduction set for ordinances or prevailing regulations; In 2018, the coverage rate was 98.4% to reduce its discharges. 2020 more than two years ahead of schedule. Elis France has (all sites). ❯❯ continuation of improvement plans aimed at reducing therefore updated its target to a 30% reduction to fur ther water consumption and, by extension, the volume of water i m p rove it s t h e r m a l e n e rgy p e r fo r m a n ce b et we e n 2 010 Key performance indicator (KPI) and outcomes discharged; and 2025. ❯❯ in Sweden, rollout of a series of investments to improve Elis Netherlands is involved in a voluntary energy efficiency Ratio of thermal energy consumption wastewater treatment. Two new on-site wastewater treatment % of wastewater treated before program aimed at reducing its consumption by 20,0 0 0 MWh (excluding fuel for vehicles) in kWh per kg stations have been installed, s ignificantly reducing the by 2020 across all sites. being discharged into the natural of linen treated: 1.37. 4 amount of metals in wastewater discharges; environment: 99.9% Measures implemented In 2018, the coverage rate was 98.4% ❯❯ in Belgium, study under way to limit the eco-toxicity of water (industrial laundry sites). In 2018, the coverage rate was 100%. discharges; The Group continues to implement measures to reduce its ❯❯ in Brazil, water treatment facilities installed at seven sites energy consumption and energy costs. The main measures to treat water before it i s d i scha rged into the natu ra l are described below: environment; ❯ ❯ ENERGY CONSUMPTION IN KWH/KG – FRANCE ❯❯ 44 energy diagnostics performed in 2018 at selected sites by the Process Engineering team in collaboration with the 100 processing center teams; 94 96 89 85 4.4 CHANGES IN COSTS RELATED TO ENERGY CONSUMPTION ❯❯ c e nt ra l m a n a g e m e nt of e n e rg y i n d i c a to r s (g a s a n d 81 78 77 74 electricity consumption). Consumption reduction goals are defined annually for each center; Challenge The policy to reduce energy consumption, which is fully in line with the Group’s drive for operational excellence, underpins ❯❯ ce nt ra l i ze d m o n i to r i n g of h e a t exc h a n g e r o u t p u t fo r Intent on limiting its environmental footprint, in particular by the following program, which is designed to: reheating process water and of the status of steam trapping reducing its greenhouse gas emissions and making bet ter equipment; use of natural resources, the Group has been continuously ❯❯ continuously improve the energy performance of processes, buildings and the vehicle fleet by incorporating energy ❯❯ investment in equipment that allows for energy recovery i m p rovi ng it s therma l energy per forma nce over the la s t efficiency criteria at the facility design phase, encouraging or lower con s um ption (synchronized heat excha ngers , ten years in Europe, thanks to its energy policy. Its efforts in this the purchase of energy-efficient appliances and services, the latest burner and drying equipment technology that area underpin the Group’s resolve to strengthen its leadership and implementing best practices for efficient and rational consumes less gas, systematic installation of gas meters, 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 position and involve all stakeholders, from the design and use of energy at existing facilities; and installation of low-pressure heaters and reverse osmosis purchase of equipment to the daily operation of our facilities, units in boilers) ; in the ongoing quest for optimal energy consumption. This ❯❯ analyze significant energy consumption items (gas, fuel oil, Elis continues to implement measures to reduce its thermal approach is fully in line with the Elis Group’s drive for operational electricity and fuel); ❯❯ ongoing insulation of points of concern; energy consumption (mainly natural gas) per kilogram of linen excellence. ❯❯ the Process Engineering team also reviewed “standard” treated, and in 2018 improved its performance in France by ❯❯ monitor improvements in energy per forma nce through 3.8% compared to 2017. Events such as changes in supply and demand, changes a p p ro p ri ate i nd i cator s a nd com m u n i cate t hem to a l l set ting s in order to get the best compromi se bet ween i n e n e rg yre l a te d ta xe s , o r p o l i t i ca l eve nt s i n o i l a n d relevant levels of the organization to help achieve the quality and energy consumption, and successfully tested gas-producing countries can cause fluctuations—sometimes objectives and targets set; low-temperature washing. This led to the creation of two fact significant—in the price of the thermal energy and electricity sheets, Tunnel Finisher Settings and Ironing Machine Suction re q u i re d to o p e ra te t h e G ro u p’s l a u n d r y fa c i l i t i e s a n d ❯❯ adapt energy use and consumption and maintain equipment Settings, which were distributed to the processing plants. proces sing centers. For this reason, the Group pays close and buildings so that they are always in compliance with legal and other relevant requirements; Numerous improvement plans are being carried out in all Group attention to its energy costs and expected trends. countries. For example, in Sweden, Elis operates five laundries ❯❯ involve all employees and external partners so that everyone that use biogas. The substitution for natural gas reduces its CO 2 Policy is aware of their roles and responsibilities in the Group’s emissions by 4,000 tons per year and increases the percentage overall energy performance. of renewable energy used to over 52%. In accordance with its Quality, Health, Safety and Environment In Europe, Elis opened its first three “zero steam” (boiler-free) policy, Elis’s environmental commitments are aimed at reducing Energy laundries in Barcelona, Torres Vedras and Helmond. These plants 25.8 % its consumption of natural resources, especially when it comes to energy, and reducing its environmental footprint. The goal are now among the Group’s best-performing plants in terms of is to ensure that both consumption and related costs are kept consumption of thermal energy per kilogram of linen treated. under control. savings per kilogram Furthermore, the new plant in Barcelona is equipped with solar of laundry washed since 2010 panels to produce the heat required for the washing vats. T h e G ro u p h a s a c e nt ra l i ze d p u rc h a s i n g d e p a r t m e nt AREA: FRANCE supplemented by local buyers in the key countries where it operates. It has also implemented appropriate processes to ensure that purchases in Europe are coordinated by the central The program is further strengthened by Elis’s efforts to obtain department. The Purchasing Department actively monitors ISO 50 0 01 energy management system certification, which changes in energy costs and contracts with preferred suppliers. was awarded to 77 European sites in 2018. 54 sites in France This allows it to plan for any potential changes and avoid are SGS-certified and 21 sites in Germany are ISO-certified. fluctuations in its energy bills. 20 21 4 5. RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING 4.5 REDUCTION IN FUEL CONSUMPTION Challenge Lastly, Elis procures its supplies from Europe, Asia and Africa, with most being sourced from Europe, especially France. For T h e Pu rc ha s i n g a n d Procu re m e nt D e p a r t m e nt p l a ys a n example, Elis’s coffee supplier, Malongo, and its paper and Challenge Maximization of vehicle fill rate important role in selecting suppliers, products and services soap suppliers are all based in France. Furthermore, to ensure throughout the world. At Elis, item quality is a constant priority. the sustainability of the French supply chain, Elis guarantees With several hundred thousand customers in Europe and Latin To optimize travel while guaranteeing high service quality, the As such, purchases of textile products and HWB appliances constant volumes to its European par tners, helping them America, the logistics service provided by the Group’s vehicles Group’s Field Agents have one objective: “full vehicles in both are a key concern. remain competitive and safeguarding local jobs. More than accounts for a significant portion of the Group’s CO 2 emissions directions.” A delivery vehicle never returns empty, as the return Therefore, it naturally gravitates toward genuine partnerships, 38% of textiles and HWB purchases were made in Europe in 2018. and its consumption of fossil fuels. This is the subject of an journey to the processing center is an opportunity to transport soiled linen/clothing, empty water cooler bottles, etc. fostered by recurrent collections and stable production cycles. optimization strategy deployed in close coordination with Most of the Company’s suppliers have built and continue to Measures implemented the Group’s sites, with ongoing priority objectives to limit fuel build strong relationships with Elis, some of them going back consumption and reduce emissions of pollutants and nitrous Reducing distances traveled more than 20 years. These relationships are essential to the Our responsible and ethical purchasing policy applies to all oxides (NOx). Elis is also adapting its delivery fleet to account The Logistics Depar tment lends its exper tise to all ser vice Compa ny’s long -term succes s a nd the sati sfaction of its our suppliers, whether new or existing. Each supplier must for sustainable policies related to low-emission zones. centers to optim ize routes u s ing s pecia l sof t wa re. Thes e customers. sign the responsible purchasing charter when entering into or 5 operations aim to concentrate deliveries to a limited number renewing a contract. The standards imposed by the Group on its suppliers and Policy of areas and assign customers to the nearest delivery centers. The Purchasing Department assesses the CSR of all its suppliers subcontractors in terms of fair practices, human rights, health Elis’s Quality, Safety and Environment policy underscores the Elis is also launching the GLAD (Google Logistics Assistant for and safet y, and environmental protection are set out in a using a risk assessment matrix. Any new supplier must have Group’s commitment to improving its performance in terms of Drivers) project to assist operational staf f in the field. Field Sustainable and Ethical Purchasing Charter. a sati sfactor y C S R a s s es s ment in order to be l i sted. Thi s natural resource consumption and thus limit its greenhouse Agents will have a PDA that shows them the best route in real CS R a s ses sment first examines the risk of the geographic gas emissions. time. This system will also promote eco driving, since it will region where the supplier operates based on internationally Policy recognized indicators. For highand moderate-risk regions, inform the driver if it detects excessive speed or braking. To that end, the operating sites, with the assistance of the Since 20 06, the Group’s commitment has been detailed in its the supplier’s CSR assessment will qualif y as satisfactor y if Logistics Department, are implementing route optimization Eco-driving awareness Sustainable and Ethical Purchasing Charter, also known as the the supplier has a recognized certification, such as ISO 260 0 0 plans. The Logistics Depar tment makes sure that the most Supplier Code of Conduct, which describes Elis’s relationships or I SO 14 0 01/SA8 0 0 0, or ha s undergone a n ex terna l C S R s u ita b l e d e l i ve r y ve h i c l e s a re u s ed , m a n a g e s l o g i s t i ca l Best practices have been strengthened and action plans with suppliers beyond the mere purchase of goods and services. audit (e.g. SMETA or BSCI). If the supplier does not have this dashboards and produces strategic studies related to industrial drawn up across the entire Group. Field Agents are audited qualifying assessment, Elis will commission a CSR audit to be strategy and site location. during rounds with their managers in order to assess, reiterate The Charter, which is central to the Group’s purchasing policies, conducted by an independent third party according to its and raise awareness of good driving practices. is integrated into the ISO 90 01 documentation system of the Elis manages and reduces its fuel consumption by consolidating own specifications. Elis monitors the action plans resulting Purchasing Depar tment. This system is used to suppor t the its delivery trips, promoting eco-driving, maximizing the fill rate In the Netherlands, some one hundred drivers as ses s and from such audits. deployment of the Char ter among all tier 1 suppliers (i.e., of its trucks, and improving the performance of its vehicle fleet. compare their eco driving results daily using the tracking suppliers with whom Elis has a direct business relationship) as Elis is gradually rolling out this assessment to the entire supplier Lastly, the Group actively monitors future developments in system installed on their fleet. A mobility plan was introduced base, which has grown in size since the integration of the well as tier 2 suppliers (but only in situations where Elis imposes alternative energy trucks in order to diversify its fleet. with a set of measures that includes eco-driving, carpooling Berendsen Group and the other companies acquired in 2018. the choice of weaver on the manufacturer). and the use of shuttles to transport employees. The Purchasing Department prioritizes this action for strategic Elis has established a risk assessment matrix for its suppliers In the United Kingdom, the practice of eco-driving combined suppliers, as defined in the Group’s purchasing strategy. related to corporate social responsibility so that it can conduct with the use of a navigation system reduced vehicle fuel periodic CSR assessments of all suppliers of linens and HWB consumption by 6% in 2018. A significant reduction in average Key performance indicator (KPI) and outcomes products. Any new supplier of items for any Elis ser vice or speed was also observed. product must have a satisfactory CSR assessment in order to be listed. Improved vehicle fleet performance Percentage of direct purchases covered by Elis also requires Oeko-Tex certification for all textiles delivered, Controlling fuel consumption also involves the improvement of in accordance with its Sustainable and Ethical Purchasing a supplier’s CSR assessment: 91%. the vehicle fleet’s performance. Since 20 08, the Elis Group has Charter. This standard is a worldwide testing and certification been upgrading its vehicle fleet on a regular basis, thereby sys te m i nvo l v i n g te s t s fo r ha rmf u l s u b s ta nce s , i ncl u d i n g increasing the payload of its light vehicles from 8 0 0 kg to prohibited and regulated substances, chemicals that are In 2018, Elis commissioned 19 CSR audits. 1,20 0 kg. Moreover, the replacement of the former Euro 6 known to pose health risks, and precautionary parameters standard light vehicles and heavy goods vehicles means that relating to healthcare. all new vehicles are equipped with latest-generation particle filters. Measures implemented Key performance indicator (KPI) and outcomes Management of fuel performance 6. THE FIGHT AGAINST CORRUPTION AND INFLUENCE PEDDLING To b et te r m a n a g e e n e rg y p e r fo r m a n ce re l a te d to f u e l Ratio of fuel consumed in liters In order to comply with the obligations of French Law 2016-1691 of ❯❯ the introduction of a single Group whistleblowing system 6 consumption, the Group has been progressively implementing December 9, 2016 on transparency, the fight against corruption and a procedure for handling alerts; per euro of revenue: 0.013. a single vehicle fleet management tool supplied with fuel and the modernization of the economy (the “Sapin II” law) The coverage rate is 96.3%. ❯❯ the reinforcement of its procedures, including the introduction consumption data. The fuel consumption of each vehicle is and as part of its risk management strategy, the Group has of a guide on gifts, invitations, donations and sponsoring; thus easier to monitor and tracked locally and centrally. undertaken to set up a program to prevent and combat the risks of corruption and influence peddling that covers France ❯❯ the implementation of training for at-risk managers and staff, In 2018, Elis purchased new alternative energy vehicles (hybrids, and all the countries in which the Group operates. giving priority to the most sensitive geographical areas. electric vehicles, NGVs) following tests carried out in previous During the 2018 financial year, based on the eight pillars The program to prevent and combat the risks of corruption and years. The Elis Group now has 30 hybrid vehicles, 13 electric required by the Sapin II law, the Group continued rolling out influence peddling will continue to be rolled out throughout vehicles, and six vehicles powered by natural gas. the following measures: the current financial year. ❯❯ mapping the Group’s corruption ri s ks, broken down by T h i s p ro g ra m i s i n a d d i t i o n to p ro g ra m s a l re a d y b e i n g country, identifying the functions and the countries most implemented in some Group countries, in par ticular Brazil, exposed to the risks of corruption and influence peddling; as well as the existing programs within Berendsen and its subs idiaries under B riti s h anti corruption regulations. The ❯❯ the revision of its Group Code of Ethics, which includes Company intends to merge these programs to prevent and the Code of Conduct. This Code sets out and illustrates combat corruption risks into its own, in order to have a single the rules applicable in the fight against corruption and program for the entire Group. influence peddling, among other things, and is intended to be distributed in all Group countries (on a case-by-case basis, where appropriate, after having been adapted to any local requirements); 22 23 7 7. SUMMARY OF ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL INFORMATION 7.2 SUMMARY OF SOCIAL INFORMATION Unit Group, 2018 7.1 SUMMARY OF ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION TOTAL WORKFORCE Number of employees 47,291 PERMANENT WORKFORCE 41,062 Unit Group, 2018 Permanent female workforce 21,712 SCOPE Permanent male workforce 19,350 Gross revenue of sites within the scope Millions of euros 3,104,975 Permanent managers 2,994 Number of sites included in the scope Number of sites 444 Permanent female managers 931 GENERAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY NON-PERMANENT WORKFORCE 6,229 ISO 140 01 certified sites Number of sites 128 Total workforce – France 13,046 ISO 50 0 01 certified sites Number of sites 77 Total workforce – Europe (excluding France) 23,153 Amount of compliance costs Millions of euros 5.4 7 Total workforce – Latin America 11,092 Amount of environmental provisions and guarantees Millions of euros 69.4 Permanent workforce aged 17 or under as of December 31 24 Amount of compensation paid for environmental litigation Millions of euros 0.0 Permanent workforce aged 18-26 as of December 31 4,409 POLLUTION PREVENTION AND WASTE MANAGEMENT Permanent workforce aged 27-49 as of December 31 23,974 Total amount of waste generated Tons 36,111 Permanent workforce aged 50 and over as of December 31 12,655 Amount of hazardous waste generated Tons 6,308 Based on the social reporting scope Proportion of hazardous waste recovered % 27 NUMBER OF NEW PERMANENT HIRES 9,114 Amount of non-hazardous waste generated Tons 29,803 Compensation Euros Proportion of non-hazardous waste recovered % 58 FIXED AND VARIABLE COMPENSATION, COLLECTIVE AND INDIVIDUAL 907,559,908 Amount spent on waste treatment Millions of euros 6.1 Of which bonuses, collective compensation and discretionary profit sharing 17,820,254 Amount generated through waste recovery Millions of euros 0.76 Organization of work % SUSTAINABLE USE OF RESOURCES Proportion of full-time permanent workforce 93.6 Total volume of water consumed Millions of m 3 16.3 PROPORTION OF PART-TIME PERMANENT WORKFORCE 6.40 Amount spent on water consumption Millions of euros 12.8 Absenteeism rate 6.13 Volume of industrial wastewater discharged Millions of m 3 13.9 WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS NUMBER Volume of industrial wastewater treated Millions of m 3 13.9 Number of fatal accidents 0 Total energy consumption MWh (HHV) 2,721,191 Number of accidents with lost time 1,658 Electricity consumption MWh 411,868 Frequency rate 19.15 Consumption of renewable energy MWh (HHV) 430,612 Severity rate 0.71 Consumption of natural gas/propane/butane MWh (HHV) 1,738,267 8 Consumption of fuel oil (excluding fuel for vehicles) MWh (HHV) 61,459 Consumption of other energy sources MWh (HHV) 78,985 Amount spent on energy consumption Millions of euros 120.6 8. CROSS-REFERENCE WITH THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Total fuel consumption Thousands of liters 41,405.3 Gasoline consumption Thousands of liters 617.8 Category Principles of the United Nations Global Compact Sections Diesel consumption Thousands of liters 40,787.5 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally 2 Amount spent on fuel consumption Millions of euros 47.1 proclaimed human rights within their sphere of influence. 5 FIGHT AGAINST CLIMATE CHANGE Human Rights 2 Direct GHG emissions – Scope 1 Kt CO 2 eq. 450.3 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 5 6 Direct GHG emissions – Scope 2 Kt CO 2 eq. 101.5 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective 2 Total GHG emissions Kt CO 2 eq. 551.8 recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 5 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and 2 compulsory labor. 5 Labor rights 2 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. 5 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect 2 of employment and occupation. 5 2 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental 4 challenges. 5 2 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Environment 4 responsibility. 5 2 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion 4 of environmentally friendly technologies. 5 2 Fight against 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion 5 corruption and bribery. 6 24 25 elis.com We empower your day French corporation (Société Anonyme) governed by a Management Board and a Supervisery Board with a share capital of €219,927,545 Registred offi ce: 5, boulevard Louis Loucheur – 92210 Saint-Cloud – France – Trade and Companies Register (R.C.S.) no. 499 668 440 Nanterre
