TRAVEL TO THE HEART OF NATURE ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2018 Corporate Editorial Authenticity and purpose are the keys to make a difference Population growth, urbanization, new eating habits, digitalization, sustainability… Our world is facing numerous global challenges that are already changing our societies and our business models. Innovating sustainably How to address these challenges? How to make a real difference? How to prepare the future in a fast-changing environment? At Roquette, we believe that the only way to create a sustainable and profitable future is to rely on Sourcing sustainably a strong sense of purpose. We collaborate with our customers and partners to imagine and offer Table of contents plant-based ingredients to better feed and cure people. This is both a beautiful mission and a huge responsibility. To fulfil this mission, we unlock the potential of Nature while taking care of resources, territories and communities. We constantly innovate to help feeding 9 billion people with healthy, nutritious and sustainable products. We favour diversity as a source of innovation, advancement and performance. Biorefining sustainably In 2018, we continued to invest in plant-based proteins in Europe and North America in order to better adapt our products to consumer expectations and respond to a growing global market. We also strengthened our position in the pharmaceutical sector with a majority stake in the capital of one of the leading manufacturers of excipients in India. And we entered the promising Cosmetics market with an Acting sustainably innovative plant-based offering. We are a family-owned company guided by a strong sense of purpose. We are authentic people, we stay true to our commitments and we act with transparency. This is how we build trust, the most essential ingredient in everything we do. Scorecards and reporting ÉDOUARD ROQUETTE JEAN-MARC GILSON CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS CEO OF THE ROQUETTE GROUP For the year 2018, Roquette chose to write its report under the theme of transparency. EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE In coherence with our values, transparency is our raw materials and products for Food, more particularly a reflection of the “Authenticity” Nutrition and Health markets, unlocking that defines us. This is illustrated throughout the best of Nature. the report, through a visual dive at the heart of Could you recognize the elements? You will find the answers p.31 JEAN-MARC GILSON JÉRÉMY BURKS ARMAND CHEN EMMANUEL DE GEUSER NATHALIE JOANNES THIERRY MARCEL GIANFRANCO PATRUCCO MARC PEETERS CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER COMMERCIAL QUALITY BUSINESS TRANSFORMATION FINANCE GROUP GENERAL COUNSEL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT GLOBAL OPERATIONS HUMAN RESOURCES 2 | ROQUETTE | RACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2018 ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2018 | ROQUETTE | 3 Our activities: how we cre ate value on the long term WHAT WE WHAT MAKES WHAT WE WHO WE CREATE RELY ON US UNIQUE DO VALUE FOR BEST OF NATURE Our Belief Nature has the answer to provide people Using plant-based resources, we collaborate with our customers and partners to imagine and offer ingredients to better feed and cure with the Food, Nutrition and Health people. Each of our ingredients responds they need according to their lifestyle choices, to unique and essential needs, and they their age, where they live and what they do. enable healthier lifestyles. CUSTOMERS SUPPLIERS & CONSUMERS PARTNERSHIPS Our Values COLLABORATIVE RELATIONSHIP 3 Long term relationships Authenticity, Excellence, Forward-looking, and partnerships Well-being 3 5,000+ customers 3 Innovation and 3 Commercial network in 100+ countries capability development PLANT-BASED FARMERS PHARMA COSMETICS FOOD & NUTRITION 3 Close collaboration to innovate in nutrition and health RAW MATERIALS 3 Global network of distributors MARKET KNOWLEDGE HOW WE ANIMAL NUTRITION INDUSTRIES HIGH QUALITY INGREDIENTS ONE Roquette CREATE VALUE REGULATORY SUPPORT CUSTOMER ORIENTED ORGANIZATION INNOVATING 3 Understand customers’ SOURCING needs and anticipate consumers’ expectations ENVIRONMENT 3 Source sustainably 3 Develop a sustainable 3 Reduced environmental 3 Improve continuously development journey inspired EMPOWERED impact (GHG emissions) SKILLED AND our raw material quality by our customers’ expectations PEOPLE 3 Water preservation EXPERIENCED OPERATIONS 3 Strengthen relationship with 3 Strengthen sustainability in our 3 Safe working conditions 3 Efficient resources WORKFORCE MANUFACTURING our raw material suppliers innovation processes 3 Positive and attractive consumption 3 8,600 employees worldwide 3 25 industrial sites work environment 3 45 nationalities best in-class technologies 3 Leadership and people development ENERGY WATER SUPPLY CHAIN INNOVATION ACTING CAPABILITIES 3 Put health, safety and well-being BIOREFINING at the heart of our concerns OUR ECOSYSTEM 3 300 employees dedicated to R&D 3 Optimize our energy consumption 3 Empower employees PROFITS & 3 Employment 3 85 years of innovation 3 Preserve water 3 Build on our diversity SHAREHOLDER 3 Territorial projects with local know-how, expertise 3 Further reduce other 3 Develop our activities with 3 3.5 Billion € turnover communities 3 Open innovation environmental impacts the local communities 3 10% of revenue per year 3 Dialogues with stakeholders 3 Customer Technical FAMILY CAPITAL reinvested in R&D and and policy-makers Services 3 250 family shareholders Industrial capital 3 Roquette Ventures 3 40 patents / year 3 85 years of investments 3 Return to shareholders 3 Roquette Foundation for Health 4 | ROQUETTE | ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2018 ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2018 | ROQUETTE | 5 Asia, a fast-growing continent for the Group Roquette celebrates Expansion of the Technical Center for Food 40 years in America Applications in Tokyo (Japan) In July 2018, the Roquette Group’s U.S. sites celebrated forty years of success on the American continent. During these In response to local increasing demand convivial events where customers, employees and their for adapted nutritional solutions, the families were present, Edouard ROQUETTE (Chairman) Roquette Group decided in July 2018 to Expansion in India and Jean-Marc GILSON (CEO) shared the Group’s vision of expand by 50% the capacity of its CTS, ambition and growth. The participation of local partners is a a Technical Support Center specializing The Roquette Group marked this year a desire proof-point of our strong link with the communities around us, in food. The expansion, which includes to increase its presence in India in order to support based on a mutually maintained trust and an ongoing new pilot scale capabilities, reaffirms its strategy of being closer to its customers locally. sustainable commitment. our willingness to locally support our A new organization in India, the construction of customers and enables our teams, new offices in Mumbai and the deployment of Main Street Keokuk Inc. – Keokuk Economic Development Corporation – the Keokuk Area Chamber of Commerce thanks to a network of experts, to better e-commerce capabilities with the launch of a answer market expectations and mobile app support our ambitions of growing specific needs. Located in Japan, and innovating in the country. it allows the Group to grow in a new food trend pioneering market. Acquisition of Sethness In July 2018, the Roquette Group signed an agreement A new production unit to acquire the Sethness Products Company, a world leader in the production of high quality caramel color for Food dedicated to pea protein and Beverage sectors. Established in 1880, Sethness shares with us a well-rooted family legacy with strong Investment in the Israeli In May 2018, Roquette inaugurated its new production unit dedicated to specialty pea protein in Vic-sur-Aisne (France). This milestone event for the Group, bringing together common values. This alliance between our two family companies enables us to combine our mutual know-how company Equinom, specialized our employees and external partners, highlighted our unique expertise and our desire and expertise. in varietal selection to better adapt our products to growing markets. In October 2018, the Group signed a partnership agreement with Acquisition of an extrusion the Israeli company Equinom to develop and produce new pea Highlights unit from Texpall varieties with high protein content and unique innovative 2018 (The Netherlands) characteristics. Created in 2012, this innovative company is developing a complete portfolio of plant varieties including no OGM (Genetically Modified Organism) legumes with a protein In September 2018, Roquette acquired a new unit specialized content 50% higher than current varieties. Thanks to this in plant-based proteins, benefiting from a unique expertise in collaboration, we also benefit from access to cutting-edge extrusion. This investment will increase our production capacity, research in varietal selection, allowing us to better respond to extend our range of vegetable-based textured ingredients for market expectations. the global meat substitutes market and provide new opportunities for our customers. Majority stake in Crest Cellulose in India ROQUETTE BEAUTÉ, In order to expand its footprint in India, be closer to its customers and serve a growing pharmaceutical market, an innovation Roquette finalized in December 2018 the acquisition of a majority stake in Crest Cellulose, one of the main leading manufacturers of pharmaceutical excipients in India. The creation of this joint venture reinforces Roquette’s position in in the cosmetics world the market, allowing us to expand our range of pharmaceutical excipients and nutraceuticals. In April 2018, the Group unveiled its new range of products at the in-cosmetics tradeshow in Amsterdam (The Netherlands). In response to a growing consumer demand for plant-based products in the cosmetics market, the Beauté by Roquette® products range marks the launch of a high-performance offering. Based on efficiency and know-how, this cosmetics line effectively combines new After a very strong year 2018, we remain vigilant in a business environment challenges and opportunities in a dynamic of innovation. that looks more complex and challenging in 2019 and that will require special attention to maintain our dynamic growth momentum. 6 | ROQUETTE | ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2018 ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2018 | ROQUETTE | 7 THE BOARD From the left to the right: Antoine Fady, Caroline Catoire, Christophe Roquette, Jean-François Rambicur (Vice Chairman), Sophie Roquette, Edouard Roquette (Chairman), Lise Nobre, Hervé Catteau (Representing Employees), Roma Roquette, Stéphane Baseden, Denis Delloye. Governance Roquette, a Group committed to a sustainable growth Our Family Group applies a model of corporate governance that responds to best practices The four committees of the Board meet regulary and prepare the strategic topics that the Board decides on The growth of our Group, generation after generation, has been possible thanks to the unconditional passion 11 Members of the Board of Directors 5 Family Directors including the Chairman 5 and stimulates agility in decision-making. with the Chief Executive Officer and the Executive of the people who were and continue to be part of this Committee of the Group. The Ethics and Sustainable entrepreneurial adventure launched in 1933 by Independent The Board of Directors, driven by an entrepreneurial Development Committee ensures that sustainable Dominique and Germain ROQUETTE. Both of them were Directors spirit, is a collegiate strategic body. Representing development is taken into account on the implementation already convinced at that time that Nature had an 1 250 family shareholders, the Board makes decisions of the company’s strategy, with a particular focus on extraordinary potential and was an essential resource to that steer the direction of our company to ensure social and environmental aspects, including a significant preserve. Director representing its sustainability. change this year in the extra-financial reporting. Employees This same attention has recently been reinforced in a 2018 was a year of renewal for the Board of Directors. Social responsibility has always been at the heart very concrete way with local initiatives in those places Its new composition reflects the desire to maintain its of the organization of our family business. The 8,600 where Roquette operates and with actions carried out diversity and a balance between family and independent employees of Roquette are a real asset for the company. by our Roquette Foundation for Health. 4 Committees administrators. This diversity is necessary for the proper The prominent role of the men and women who work functioning and efficiency of the Board, which thus here is an essential part of the strategy pursued by the The values of Authenticity, Excellence, Forward-looking Appointments and Strategy benefits from complementary skills and expertise. Board. and Well-being support a renewed sustainability strategy. compensation committee Along this line, there is a very clear separation of duties They continue to guide our Group in its development and committee between the roles and responsibilities of Chairman and innovation after more than 85 years, positioning it as one Chief Executive Officer. of the world leaders in plant-based ingredients and Audit Ethics and sustainable committee development a pioneer of new plant proteins for Food, Nutrition committee and Health markets. 8 | ROQUETTE | ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2018 ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2018 | ROQUETTE | 9 Our Our Sustainable stakeholders Development approach Public & societal INNOVATING • Understand customers’ needs and anticipate consumers’ sphere expectations • Develop a Sustainable Development journey inspired by Public authorities our customers’ expectations Local communities • Strengthen sustainability in our innovation processes Social Professional organizations Scientific and academic institutions The media SOURCING sphere NGOs Consumers and citizens … • Source sustainably • Improve continuously our raw materials’ quality Employees Future employees • Strengthen relationship with our raw materials suppliers Social partners BIOREFINING … Like many other leading companies, we are aware of the societal stakes, and we strive to consistently integrate the Sustainable • Optimize our energy consumption Development Goals of the UN into our strategy Financial • Preserve water and our Sustainable Development commitments. Roquette supports the SDGs. • Further reduce other environmental impacts Commercial sphere ACTING The UN Global Compact abrings together businesses, organizations, UN agencies, labor sphere stakeholders and civil society around ten Shareholders • Put Health, Safety and Well-being at the heart universally recognized principles designed to build Financial institutions companies that are more stable and more inclusive. of our concerns Customers Banks Since 2009, Roquette has been a member of … • Empower employees the UN Global Compact. Every year, our Sustainable Suppliers Development and Activity Contractors • Build on our diversity Report gives us the Distributors and agents • Develop our activities with the local communities opportunity to describe our Industrial partners actions in support of these 10 principles, based on four … topics: Human Rights, Labor, Environment, Anti-corruption. 10 | ROQUETTE | ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2018 ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2018 | ROQUETTE | 11 Innovating Commitment #1 Understand customers’ needs sustainably and anticipate consumers’ expectations Innovation and customer satisfaction, a priority for Roquette Innovating for our customers is in our genes. This year, we have organized numerous international events in order to In 2025, we are committed to ensuring that 70% of our projects meet the meet our customers, better understand their expectations and present criteria of “sustainable chemistry” and that 80% of the new solutions offered our latest advances in innovation for plant-based solutions. to our customers from the same projects meet the Sustainable Development “The field of possibilities is infinite with plant-based proteins,” said Goals of the UN. Éric TROCHON, Meilleur Ouvrier de France, chef and teacher at Our family legacy and long-term vision are the foundation the prestigious Culinary Arts School Ferrandi (Paris) during a seminar organized with our customers. This day dedicated to plant-based food of our desire to always explore, work and innovate together. This is essential was rich in exchanges about the needs and expectations of tomorrow. with our products were discussed: sugar reduction, fiber enrichment, to constantly meet the expectations of our customers Presentations of our solutions and culinary demonstrations with our texture enhancement and others. During these interactive moments, and anticipate their needs. ingredients followed one another. Our partners were able to grasp the with collaborative workshops and culinary experiences, we shared our potential of pea protein and our latest innovative applications. expertise and know-how by presenting our products in daily food applications while listening to and learning from our customers. In addition, the Innovation Gallery created by the Roquette Group in China brought together more than 130 customers and partners to Together, we are committed to going further in order to meet the present our strategy and to innovate together. Several themes related expectations of customers and consumers. Pea protein, a protein with huge virtues SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS OF THE UNITED NATIONS Commitment #1 In 2018, Roquette continued its research and investments around pea protein in order to better anticipate the demands of our customers. Understand customers’ Roquette inaugurated a new specialty pea protein production facility in Vic-sur-Aisne (France). This extension, made possible by our constantly needs and anticipate improved expertise, allows us to extend the use of vegetable proteins in consumers’ expectations the daily intake of consumers. Our vegetable protein NUTRALYS® offering By developing pharma, nutrition, food has been enriched with new ingredients designed specifically for food and and industrial innovative solutions that help beverage products, thus meeting the specific needs of sports and senior improve our consumers’ health and well-being. nutrition or in case of diet. Similarly, the acquisition from Texpall of a new plant protein extrusion unit Commitment #2 Commitment #3 in the Netherlands is an important step for the implementation of our Group strategy. INNOVATING INDICATORS % of projects meeting several “sustainable chemistry” criteria Develop a sustainable Strengthen sustainability Finally, the presence of the Roquette Group at the Protein Summit in Lille (France), an international congress dedicated to proteins, was an important 2018 2025 development journey in our innovation moment, rich in exchanges with the actors of this sector. 61% 70% inspired by our customers’ processes % of solutions offered to our customers meeting the Sustainable Development Goals of the UN expectations By including Sustainable Development Committed to developing innovative nutritional, functional, sustainable and By offering them environmentally friendly, criteria as a key element in our innovation high value-added solutions, we confirm our global leadership in the Target (80%) achieved 2018 innovative, sustainable and competitive projects. specialty vegetable protein market and our desire to offer products that 92% solutions. are increasingly adapted to the challenges of Food, Nutrition and Health markets. 12 | ROQUETTE | ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2018 ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2018 | ROQUETTE | 13 A Pet Food seminar at Roquette In October 2018, we organized a pet food training session with one of our leading customers in this market, so that different teams had This seminar was an opportunity to highlight our desire to be ever closer to our customers to innovate, exchange and collaborate with Commitment #2 Develop a sustainable the opportunity to share their expertise. them. The analysis of trends in this market has allowed us to focus on the development journey different needs of the animal, from gestation to the end of life, in order to constantly adapt our offer and propose personalized THE ANALYSIS OF TRENDS IN THIS solutions. We are continuing our research on the use and dosage of MARKET HAS ALLOWED US TO FOCUS inspired by our customers’ fibers and proteins in our products. We propose adapted ranges, ON THE DIFFERENT NEEDS OF hypoallergenic, limiting any malabsorption effect and favoring a high THE ANIMAL, FROM GESTATION TO digestibility by the animal. expectations THE END OF LIFE Roquette products, solutions for tomorrow’s expectations Understanding the needs of consumers, improving their health innovations help to treat and target diseases hitherto incurable, and well-being, and contributing to healthier lifestyles have always such as certain genetic diseases. Thanks to our developed been priorities for the Group. That is why we collaborate with our solutions, each patient can benefit from more tailored treatments, partners to imagine and propose ingredients to better feed and effective and with limited side effects. cure people. In the field of nutrition, in order to prevent diseases that are more To help our pharmaceutical customers optimizing and improving and more widespread such as diabetes and obesity, we have their formulations in a sustainable way, we launched in April two created this year MELIOSE®, an alternative sweetener solution, high-quality excipients stabilizing protein-based formulations: reduced in calories and offering a remarkable texture for KLEPTOSE® HPB and HP Biopharma were presented at the last confectionery and pastry. edition of CPhI Worldwide (International Trade Fair for the Pharmaceutical Industry) in Madrid (Spain). These unique NUTRIOSE®, the innovation of a soluble fiber by Roquette The launch of NUTRIOSE® pea soluble fiber by Roquette responds Obtained from non-GMO material, NUTRIOSE® is now known for its to a growing market demand for plant-based new ingredients. versatility and ease of use in multiple food applications. From the Roquette signs the Duralim charter By adding yellow peas to wheat and corn, Roquette is expanding enrichment of fiber content to the reduction in sugars or fat, it can be its range of solutions for the food and nutrition sector. used in a wide range of products to improve their nutritional profile Since the beginning of 2018, Roquette has been involved in Duralim, the sustainability of plant protein supplies and the knowledge of the while preserving their original flavor. It is therefore a key ingredient together with all the players of the French animal nutrition sector. production conditions of plant raw materials in their country of origin. of innovation that can be incorporated in almost any formulation. The vocation of Duralim is to involve all the actors of the animal feed Feeding farm animals in a sustainable way means providing our The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved it as a chain in France, in order to contribute together to sustainable feeding society with the guarantee that raw materials used in animal feed are dietary fiber, while the Korean Food and Drug Administration (KFDA) of livestock. By adhering to the Duralim charter, Roquette wishes to produced in compliance with environmental, social and economic has published a favorable scientific opinion on the probiotic actively contribute to the continuous improvement of the animal criteria. This approach reinforces the viability of companies while properties of the product. In addition, the European Commission nutrition sector by providing concrete and more sustainable integrating quality and safety requirements. authorizes the food industry to promote its health benefits for oral solutions. health and glycemic response. In Canada, our NUTRIOSE® Roquette is committed to offering its customers expertise, confidence ingredient has also acquired dietary fiber status. As part of this engagement, several actions have already been and sustainability while ensuring quality, food safety, value for money implemented such as the provision of dedicated products for animal and environmental responsibility. Roquette, thanks to its ingredients of natural origin, offers increased feed and the effort to optimize resource development, functionalities in many of our solutions. 14 | ROQUETTE | ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2018 ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2018 | ROQUETTE | 15 Virtual reality: a journey Sourcing sustainably to the heart of Roquette innovation The inauguration in June 2018 of the Innovation Lounge, the Group’s first digital showroom located at the corporate site of La Madeleine (France), is the culmination of a project inspired by the latest digital innovations. The showroom has been designed to achieve two main objectives: to explain who we are and what our ambitions are, and to demonstrate our know-how and expertise through numerous applications of our plantbased products. We fully optimize all of our raw materials. They are derived from agriculture and as such annually renewable. Benefiting from a unique digital experience, each visitor to the Innovation Lounge can enter the Roquette universe through a virtual reality journey. In 2025 we are committed to ensuring that 20% of our suppliers be certified or rated as “sustainable and responsible”. At Roquette, we are committed on a daily basis to promoting the resources of today while preserving those of tomorrow, in order to perpetuate our plant-based raw materials. This is why we are taking concrete actions to provide our stakeholders a responsible sourcing pillar Commitment #3 of our Sustainable Development approach. Strengthen sustainability in our innovation An exceptional processes conference on pharmaceutical innovation Roquette, in collaboration with the National University of Commitment #1 Singapore, organized its first pharmaceutical conference Source sustainably in September 2018. This event brought together many By encouraging local supply and optimizing renowned experts from industry and academia. means of transportation to combine economic profitability and low environmental This was an opportunity to discuss recently developed footprint. research as well as some of the latest technological developments in the market. This conference allows us to SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT quickly identify and consider future quality collaborations, GOAL OF THE UNITED NATIONS Commitment #2 Commitment #3 further promoting Roquette’s innovation for the benefit of each of our stakeholders. At the heart of a constantly evolving pharmaceutical Improve continuously our Strengthen relationship universe, we strive to offer technical expertise solutions, making our Group a long-term partner of choice for this raw materials’ quality with our raw material field. Our decision to open a first biopharmaceutical SOURCING INDICATOR By clearly specifying our needs, strictly suppliers selecting our suppliers and reinforcing By building partnerships with breeders and CONSIDER FUTURE QUALITY laboratory in our innovation center in Singapore COLLABORATIONS, FURTHER % of “sustainable” raw materials quality control chain from fields to biofarmers to select and use most suitable underscores this same commitment. PROMOTING ROQUETTE’S 2018 2025 refineries. agricultural resources. INNOVATION 10,20% 20% 16 | ROQUETTE | ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2018 ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2018 | ROQUETTE | 17 Commitment #1 Source Operations Awards at Roquette sustainably At the end of 2018, we recognized our best projects at the 2018 Operations Awards contest. More than 150 projects (versus 98 in 2017) were submitted and presented by our teams from all over Peas, a sustainable the world, and were reviewed by a Roquette jury of experts. sector at Roquette Among the selected categories, several projects were linked to the Supply Chain, demonstrating our commitment to continuously With one existing plant in Vic-sur-Aisne (France) and another one being optimizing the quality and sustainability of our raw materials supply. built in Portage la Prairie (Canada), Roquette will soon become a buyer of more than 250,000 tons of yellow pea to better serve its customers all Other teams introduced the creation of an online supplier evaluation around the world with high quality plant products. system now used by the Group in China. This qualification tool implementation of a solution that offers the advantage of allows us, through performance analysis and audits, to optimize our water-resistant materials while being lighter and more flexible To better meet the expectations of Food, Nutrition and Health markets, supplies, while promoting the continuous improvement of suppliers and therefore more sustainable and responsible. we are adapting our sourcing strategy by favoring a pea of unique quality by demanding excellence of their products and services. that respects the environment. The creation of a sustainable sector is a This Awards event illustrates the dynamic engagement of our priority for Roquette and the basis of our procurement strategy. Finally, various projects involving a new polypropylene packaging employees, who are ambassadors, contributors and pioneers of Pea is a legume and its virtues are numerous. also demonstrated the cost optimization obtained from the performance and sustainable development within our Group. In collaboration with our pea suppliers, we have defined an innovative agronomic practices, based on varietal selection, optimized farming practices, controlled management of plant protection products, traceability from seeds to the Roquette production sites and dedicated logistics. Commitment #3 Strengthen relationship with our raw Following the successful launch of this initiative at small scale, a global deployment is underway. We support an approach of progressing towards responsible agronomic specifications, the adoption of modern technologies and digitization for the intelligent monitoring of crops. material suppliers Local engagement with farmers Commitment #2 With its responsibility and proximity to its customers and partners, It was an opportunity for us to present our requirements in terms of Improve continuously Roquette is committed with its stakeholders to further strengthen its Sustainable Development strategy. quality standards and to exchange with them for a better direct collaboration in corn supply for the site. The Group has thus demonsour raw materials’ quality trated its willingness to interact more and more with its suppliers in This year, in India, we decided to increase the number of direct order to create a genuine working dynamic committed to ensuring contracts with local farmers. To do this, we organized various dedicated quality and excellence for each of our raw materials. events in which about thirty local farmers were able to visit our Roquette continues its commitment factories, particularly in Viramgam, in the state of Gujarat (India). In addition, we have also signed an agreement with the FPO (Farmer Producer Organization), which brings together small producers and to sustainable raw materials farmers associations to give them a better understanding of the market, of their business and possible investments, thus helping them to Since 2013, we are establishing a sustainable sector for special This initiative with our supply of waxy corn is at the origin of develop their activity. In the same way, at La Harpe (United States) quality maize in Italy. Roquette’s sustainable approach to raw materials. In fact, for the last we have strengthened our cooperation with local farmers by two years, initiatives in the special maize sector have now entered guaranteeing optimized storage of our raw materials through using To do that, several cultivation contracts have been made directly into more ambitious sustainability projects for raw materials such as quality equipment. with voluntary and motivated farmers to put agronomy at the heart potatoes and peas in France and Canada. A common agronomic of their concerns and thus define an innovative working culture. practices, inspired by FSA / SAI (Farm Sustainability Assessment / Finally, we are committed to offering training to our suppliers to further Our agronomists then helped farmers to reconsider several aspects Sustainable Agriculture Initiative) sustainability principles, has been develop their know-how and thus enable them to better collaborate of their agricultural practices by working on the control of plant put in place. with our sustainable and responsible sourcing. protection products and fertilizers as well as on the optimization of water, notably through a fertirrigation technique, an effective drip By making each of its actions part of an increasingly responsible irrigation system. approach, Roquette is committed to being sustainable and respectful of the environment in all sectors. 18 | ROQUETTE | ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2018 ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2018 | ROQUETTE | 19 Biorefining Commitment #1 Optimize our energy sustainably Our industrial performance is at the heart of our concerns. consumption Roquette reduces its energy consumption In order to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions and limit its environmental impact on the planet, the Group has implemented In 2025 we are committed to ensuring that, compared to 2015, various effective measures in its sites. our energy efficiency improves by 10% and our water consumption We are now optimizing our energy consumption by using more per product ton reduces by 20%. At the same time, we are committed efficient solutions and respectful of the environment. This year, we to implementing technical installations that produce less CO2 thereby have installed a new evaporator of high energy efficiency in Lestrem preventing 1 million tons of CO2 emissions by 2025. (France) that allows us to generate a gain of about 24 GWh/year. In Wuhan (China), the coal boilers have been replaced by gas boilers that In face of today’s environmental challenges, Roquette is acting by guarantee a reduction of CO2 emissions and less air pollution. developing specific measures to reduce our impacts. This is why we are working to optimize our energy consumption, improving our energy Similarly, in Benifaio (Spain), we set up a system to optimize the protein drying methods by installing a second decanting equipment that efficiency on a daily basis and increasing the use of renewable resources. reduces the gas consumption during the drying phase and allows us to increase the production capacity. In addition, in Keokuk (United States), we have now installed new low consumption lighting with longer service life (LED). They increase visibility and thus safety in our employees’ work environment, WE ARE NOW OPTIMIZING combining quality and energy savings. OUR ENERGY CONSUMPTION BY USING Measuring energy consumption and acting responsibly is a major SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT MORE EFFICIENT commitment for Roquette, which is why each year our employees work GOALS OF THE UNITED NATIONS SOLUTIONS together to offer concrete solutions that improve our performance. More than half of our sites are now Commitment #1 Commitment #3 ISO 14001 and ISO 50001 certified 7 Optimize our energy /8 Further reduce other Like other industrial sites, our teams in Italy have now obtained two consumption environmental impacts quality certifications after a successfully completed audit last By installing energy-efficient solutions and September. These are ISO 14001 and ISO 50001, international By implementing the most relevant solutions using relevant renewable energies. certifications that define the requirements for implementing based on local specificities. BIOREFINING INDICATORS environmental and energy management systems. European sites Commitment #2 Energy efficiency 2018 2025 During their visit, the external auditors particularly appreciated the of the Group are application of our “good practices” for the control processes put in certified ISO 50001 2% 10% place in our production site and the commitment of the involved CO2 tons avoided annually Preserve Water teams. This first audit is for us another step forward in a global 2018 2025 By optimizing our processes to minimize process of continuous improvement that we are conducting to meet consumptions and by installing efficient the environmental and energy challenges of today. 813 912 1 000 000 treatment technologies. 20 | ROQUETTE | ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2018 ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2018 | ROQUETTE | 21 Commitment #3 World Environment Day, a “ONE Roquette” event Further reduce On June 5th, during World Environment Day, many Roquette teams got mobilized around the world, in order To perpetuate these actions, the site of Cassano (Italy) gave its employees a brochure of good practices, making other environmental to achieve a responsible action demonstrating their commitment to the planet. Whether in Germany, France, Spain, India, the United them even more aware of today’s environmental issues. This unifying global action proves the Group’s real involvement in Sustainable Development and will impacts States, China, Italy or Lithuania, the teams were made therefore be organized every year. aware of Sustainable Development issues thanks to various workshops and solidarity missions about recycling, Roquette, a player ecology, pollution or biodiversity themes. in biodiversity To help restore biodiversity in our new corporate site, last September we installed three beehives on the green roof Minimizing and of our site in La Madeleine (France). Valuable and useful recycling waste for the planet, bees form a small organized world, increasingly threatened today by urban facilities that At our Gokak site (India), Roquette put in place reduce the surrounding biological environments. an awareness action plan to promote the use BY IMPROVING DURING WORLD of non-plastic bags. Handmade jute bags were OUR PROCESSES, ENVIRONMENT DAY, MANY ROQUETTE Similarly, during World Environment Day, our teams in then distributed to all Roquette employees. WE OPTIMIZE OUR TEAMS GOT Lithuania and Germany planted young trees around the Our teams from Gurnee (USA) also celebrated RESOURCES AND MOBILIZED sites, encouraging and protecting a renewal of their achievements, proud to have recycled PRESERVE THE AROUND biodiversity by increasing the number of green spaces. this year at their site more than 45 tons of ENVIRONMENT THE WORLD plastic. Recognizing the growing challenges of protecting the flora and fauna that surround us, we are strengthening our initiatives in this area, showing our environmental commitment and reducing our local impacts in the Our site in Lianyungang (China) communities where we settle. obtains an environmental certification Last July, the Roquette site of Lianyungang (China) was awarded by the local public authorities a special prize for the year 2018 thanks to the engagement of the various involved teams. Commitment #2 This certification qualifies our sustainable and responsible industrial Preserve water systems, from the cultivation of our raw materials to the delivery to our customers, through the manufacture of our products and their storage. All of our departments have actively participated in the success of this evaluation, which is committed to ensuring excellence, transparency and optimization in our site by generating less waste and fewer possible Water, a precious resource carbon emissions. This year, during World Environment Day, we focused on water, Additionally, our Viramgam site (India) has been implementing By improving our processes, we optimize our resources and preserve a vital and valuable element for all. the zero-liquid discharge technology for two years now, a the environment, offering our customers the best of nature. process that consists of reusing and recycling water, thus For example, in Gokak, India, our staff gathered to clean reducing the need for freshwater extraction. together the water of the Markandeya Perennial River, removing plastic waste that polluted this natural area. In the same way, to ensure water recycling with a constant Roquette on the road quality, our Gokak and Pantnagar sites in India have of industrial excellence In Spain, we have also organized several workshops around implemented reverse osmosis systems that recycle water in order to implement anti-waste measures, reduce approximately 70% of the used water. In 2018, a number of employees received Black Belt, Green Belt and unnecessary consumption and better treat our wastewater. Yellow Belt training. These courses rely on the concepts of Excellence and Now an ideas box is available at our Benifaio site, inviting each Through these actions, we take care of the environment of our Six Sigma, structured methods aimed at consistently improving process employee to offer suggestions to strengthen our commitment to local communities. Roquette thus reinforces its accountability quality and efficiency. Thanks to the mobilization of our teams, our sites in environmental protection. and encourages optimization and resource protection in every Pantnagar, Gokak and Viramgam (India), one-quarter of our trained action of its employees as in each of its industrial processes. employees have been certificated “Green Belt ”. This certification refers to a structured method of management in the processes, aiming at their continuous improvement and performance throughout the Group. 22 | ROQUETTE | ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2018 ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2018 | ROQUETTE | 23 Acting Commitment #1 Put health, safety and well-being sustainably Safety is one of our priorities. at the heart of our concerns SAFETY FIRST at Roquette: a priority In 2025 we are committed to achieving a Frequency Rate 1 (FR1)* of 0.5 and a Frequency Rate 2 (FR2)** of 1.5. Every year, we implement our commitment to local populations and Safety is a constant priority within our Group and remains an essential condition to communities by supporting a minimum of 20 projects or activities. ensure our sustainability. At Roquette, we believe that Nature has the answer to the different needs of women and We are committed to ensuring the reliability of our facilities and the protection of our industrial sites. We develop ways to ensure the implementation of best safety men in terms of Food, Nutrition and Health. To imagine and offer the best ingredients for practices at all levels throughout a real dialogue. our customers, we base our culture and our actions on four fundamental values: Authenticity, Excellence, Forward-Looking and Well-Being. The creation of a Training Center in safety, security and health in Lianyungang (China) offering theoretical training and practical exercises to the site’s employees is a *Number of accidents with work stoppage per million hours worked concrete illustration of this. **Number of accidents notified per million hours worked It is thus essential for Roquette that everyone is committed to safety so that together SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT we can continue our efforts and achieve excellence. GOALS OF THE UNITED NATIONS Results are here! • 3 million hours worked without interruption in India, • 2 million hours worked hours worked without an accident in Italy, • 2 million hours worked in Lestrem (France) without accident with stoppage, • 1 million hours worked in Benifaio without accident with stoppage. Commitment #1 Commitment #3 WE DEVELOP WAYS TO Initiatives externally recognized: ENSURE THE • OSHAI (Occupational Safety & Health Award) gave the “HSE Excellence Put health, safety and wellBuild on our diversity IMPLEMENTATION OF & Sustainability” award to our Viramgam and Gokak teams (India) • 4 awards were given by the Starch Europe association for the safety in our factories being at the heart of our By valuing our differences and promoting BEST SAFETY PRACTICES and the reduction of accidents with work stoppage (Italy, Spain, United Kingdom concerns the sharing of best practices in a multicultural AT ALL LEVELS network. and France). By continuing the implementation of worldclass HSE (Health, Safety, and Environment) management systems and developing a culture in which people safety is a core value. ACTING INDICATORS Frequency rate 1 2018 2025 Commitment #2 Commitment #4 Fostering collaboration 1,49 0,5 Empower employees Develop our activities with This year, the Group modernized the working environment of its Frequency rate 2 employees at several sites in order to improve their comfort 2018 2025 By promoting dialogue, fostering the local communities and to promote their exchanges and collaboration. engagement and developing skills. By partnering with our local communities and 2,72 1,5 contributing to their development through In Mumbai (India), La Madeleine (France), Frankfurt (Germany) and Local projects and actions supported sustainable relationship. Target (20) achieved 2018 Querétaro (Mexico), our teams have moved into new, more pleasant and modern premises. Several relaxation rooms as well as 55 collaborative spaces facilitating teamwork are now available. 24 | ROQUETTE | ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2018 ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2018 | ROQUETTE | 25 Commitment #2 Commitment #3 Empower employees Build on our diversity At Roquette, our employees are Rely on the richness of our diversity “entrepreneurs of their career” At the heart of our Group, we are proud to cultivate diversity as a Our ambition at Roquette is to create a positive and attractive environment, source of innovation, enrichment and performance. where everyone can learn, grow, contribute to the company’s performance and be recognized for it. Thus, we support the initiatives of a group of employees who created Women@Roquette, a network aimed to improve diversity at We encourage our employees to be “entrepreneurs of their career.” all levels of the organization. Throughout the year, or more specifically during a “Career Day” organized at each site for the first time this year, our employees can consult career In the same way, during the International Women’s Day, our site in opportunities, make their interests known and discuss their professional India celebrated its female employees by offering them a training development preferences with their manager. and coaching session led by women who have succeeded in their bright professional careers. “At Roquette, our commitment to diversity is fundamental to our values. We firmly believe that a diverse workforce will help us “Roquette Talks”: realizing our ambition of becoming a global leader of plant-based ingredients.” Jean-Marc GILSON, CEO. our employees at the heart of our strategy The Group continues to advance the sharing and exchange of information with employees. Strengthen our educational Once again this year, the “Roquette Talks” live online worldwide broadcast event allowed to reach out to all employees to share partnerships and discuss about the Group’s strategy. With a focus on international development, innovation and and through cooperation with our departments on large-scale enrichment, the Roquette Group has developed this year a series of projects, we encourage a mutual development of skills. partnerships with high schools and universities all around the world. Similarly, our employees in Cassano (Italy) undertook in April 2018 THE GROUP CONTINUES TO Last September, we signed an agreement with the SKEMA Business the “Job4Junior” challenge, an initiative that allowed children of our Roquette sets up a peer ADVANCE THE SHARING AND School in France to roll out a series of actions over the next three employees aged from 18 to 25 to be immersed in our work recognition program EXCHANGE OF INFORMATION WITH EMPLOYEES years. Through internships or work-study opportunities, continuous degree-granting courses in high-stakes areas for the Group, environment. Through this action, we have proven our commitment with younger generations, in search of a future career in line with in the US their ambitions. At our various American sites, our teams have set up the Kudos In addition, at our various French sites, Roquette organized a Recognition Program that allows employees to recognize and drawing competition as part of the Starch Fest initiated by the USIPA congratulate their colleagues for their commitment and contribution. This practice encourages the sharing and recognition of employee Top Employer (Association of Starch Products Industries Trade Unions), with the main objective of increasing awareness about our activities and achievements that reinforce efficiency and motivation within our in China allowing our employees to talk to their children about their jobs. teams. Roquette has been officially recognized by the Top Employer Multiplying its educational partnerships, Roquette strengthens its Institute in China as one of the best 2018 employers in China dynamic interaction with new generations, discovering the talents of for its excellence and best practices. tomorrow. “This certification recognizes Roquette for its commitment to its employees at the heart of its strategy.” Jason YU, China HR Head. 26 | ROQUETTE | ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2018 ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2018 | ROQUETTE | 27 Commitment #4 SCORECARD Develop our activities with Environmental data the local communities FOSSIL ENERGY USED Electricity GWh 2018 2,567 2017 2,552 GRI G4-EN3 Natural gas GWh 6,526 7,286 G4-EN3 The Roquette Foundation for Health, RENEWABLE ENERGY USED committed to Food Wood Rice husk kt (100%DM) kt 127.5 127.6 136 117 G4-EN3 G4-EN3 and Health ENERGY PRODUCED Electricity GWh 1 ,468 1,578 G4-EN3 Created in November 2017, our Foundation is entirely dedicated to With these various supported projects, the Roquette Foundation Biogas GWh 67 69 G4-EN3 Food, Nutrition and Health fields. Particularly aligned with our Acting demonstrates its commitment to communities and contributes to PUMP WATER commitment, it completes our Sustainable Development approach improving the well-being and health of millions of people around the Process water (rivers, aquifers, urban network) 106 m3 63.4 63.9 G4-EN8 through multiple actions. world. Water returned 10 m 6 3 35.7 34 G4-EN22 COD discharged t/kt of starch 1.95 2.17 G4-EN22 We now support “Le Jardin Voyageur”, an association that educates AIR children about the benefits of healthy and natural food through the CO2 emissions (Scope 1 and 2) teq CO2/kt of starch 785 773 G4-EN21 discovery of vegetables. In addition to financial support, a solidarity mission was organized with the participation of about ten employees. We also engaged with “Vivons en Forme”, a health prevention program for children in French municipalities. In India, we also support the Life Project 4 Youth association, which promotes the social and professional integration of young people in situations of great precariousness and exclusion. Social data 2018 2017 GRI We participate in the funding of a research program of the WORKFORCE (ENTIRE GROUP TOTAL PERMANENT STAFF AND FIXED-TERM CONTRACT STAFF AS OF DEC. 31) DigestScience Foundation and its HEROIC project, launched to Per geographic region identify the environmental causes of Crohn’s disease. Europe 5,018 5,031 G4-10 Americas 1,024 895 G4-10 Finally, this year we are sponsoring a Microbiote exhibition at the Asia 2,557 2,473 G4-10 Cité des Sciences in Paris. This exhibition retraces the astonishing Group 8,559 8,399 G4-11 life of the intestinal flora and its unsuspected benefits for our daily PROFESSIONAL EQUALITY (ENTIRE GROUP-TOTAL PERMANENT STAFF AND FIXED-TERM CONTRACT STAFF AS OF DEC. 31) health. Male employees 6,763 6,590 G4-LA12 Including % of managers 15,8% 15.5% G4-LA12 Female Employees 1,836 1 809 G4-LA12 Including % of managers 15.4% 14.00% G4-LA12 Acting to raise awareness: Ratio of Women/Men 27.1% 27.40% G4-LA12 HIRES/RETIREMENTS (ENTIRE GROUP) a strong mission at Roquette Hires 540 559 G4-LA1 Resignations 329 295 G4-LA1 In our Group, we are convinced that extending and publicly Furthermore, in partnership with several local doctors, Roquette Layoffs 73 63 G4-LA1 communicating our commitments will help us improving the world organized this year in India a dental camp for schooled children in Death 9 14 G4-LA1 around us. That’s why we are striving to educate consumers of all rural communities, for whom access to healthcare remains a Retirement 44 55 G4-LA1 generations. persistent problem. 3,100 students were able to benefit from this Other departures (common agreement, 134 87 G4-LA1 initiative. others sites, etc.) In Portage la Prairie (Canada), we funded the “Roquette After School” TRAINING (LIMITED SCOPE) program, which offers disadvantaged children various activities after These partnerships at the heart of local communities give us the Hours/employees 21.4 21.6 G4-LA9 school such as nutrition education and tuitions on other subjects in opportunity to better fulfill our mission to improve the Food, Nutrition INTEGRATION OF WORKERS WITH DISABILITIES (FRANCE SCOPE) order to help children to develop their skills. and Health of the world around us by raising awareness among our Workers with disabilities 186 180 G4-LA12 various stakeholders. SAFETY (ENTIRE GROUP) FR1 and FR2 Days lost 815 810 G4-LA6 Severity rate 0.06 0.06 G4-LA6 28 | ROQUETTE | ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2018 ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2018 | ROQUETTE | 29 Performance indicators BIOREFINING INDICATORS 2018 2017 2025 objectives REPORTING Energy efficiency Ratio 0.98% 0,98 0,9 Since 2008, The Roquette Group has been publishing an annual Sustainable Development & Activity Report. Specific water consumption ratio 1.14 0.98 1.00 SCOPE CO2 tons avoided annually teq CO2 avoided 813,912 760,117 1,000,000 SOURCING INDICATOR REPORTING % of “sustainable” raw materials INNOVATING INDICATORS % 10.20% 6.30% 20.00% METHOD Several scopes have been defined, based on the indicators. % of projects meeting several “sustainable To ensure the reliability of our information, protocols prepared Social indicators: the Group scope includes the legal entity Roquette Frères % 61% 54% 70 % chemistry” criteria % of solutions offered to our customers meeting by the various Group departments are the basis of Roquette and all its directly or indirectly controlled sites with a stake of more than 50% % 92% 85% 80% reporting. These documents define the scope and provide, in a at December 31 of the year of reference. The limited scope includes the legal the Sustainable Development Goals of the UN ACTING INDICATORS precise and easy to understand way, the definitions of the entity Roquette Frères and its industrial subsidiaries with a workforce of over Frequency rate of work accidents with stoppage indicators chosen in this report and in the management reports. 50 employees, directly or indirectly controlled at more than 50% and counted 1.49 1.24 0.5 (FR1) as part of the Roquette Group for at least one full year on January first of Frequency rate of work with and without Indeed, as part of the transposition of the European directive on the reference year. 2.72 3.45 1.5 stoppage (FR2) extra-financial information (2014/95/EU) to French law, which Local projects and actions supported 55 20 modifies article 225 of the French Commercial Code, extraEnvironmental indicators: (a) performance indicators for centralized heat financial reporting is a requirement for the company. To this production facilities and avoided CO2 emissions performance are calculated for effect, the indicators and the information published in the all of the Group’s industrial sites whose total annual energy consumption is management report are reviewed by one of our independent greater than 5,000 TOE (Tons of Oil Equivalent), during the two years preceding Code of conduct external auditors, KPMG. Much of the information published in the management report is also listed in this report. Roquette was aslo inspired by the ‘‘G4 Guidelines’’ of the Global 2018, and whose capital has been held at more than 50% for at least 3 years; (b) the process water consumption performance indicators are calculated for all Group corn and wheat starch plants, with a unit capacity rating of more than In a global environment that is increasingly Reporting Initiative (GRI), and our indicators are listed according 400 commercial tons of clean grain per day and the capital of which is held for at uncertain and complex, Roquette’s priority is to to the GRI classification (workforce indicators G4-10 and G4-11, least 3 years more than 50%; (c) all the other energy and environment indicators uphold our highest standards in all our locations. IN ORDER TO MAINTAIN AND for example). come from all industrial sites whose energy consumption is above 1,000 TOE per That is why the deployment in 2019 of our Code STRENGTHEN THE TRUST OF OUR year and whose capital has been more than 50% owned for at least 3 years. of Conduct strengthens and develops the CLIENTS, WE MUST COMMIT TO principles related to our values. It is the compass EXCELLENCE AND ALWAYS ACT IN of our daily activities that contributes to the ethical AN HONEST AND RESPONSIBLE WAY and sustainable growth of our company. THANK YOU TO ALL CONTACTS OUR CONTRIBUTORS! CORPORATE COMMUNICATIONS This report was prepared with the help of many Carole PETITJEAN carole.petitjean@roquette.com Roquette employees, as well as other stakeholders Séverine LEPERS severine.lepers@roquette.com outside the Group. We thank each one of them for PUBLIC AFFAIRS About Roquette their valuable collaboration and contribution to the development of this edition. Anders LILJEGREN anders.liljegren@roquette.com GRAPHIC DESIGN AND SUPPORT Agence LinkUp “Offering the best of nature” EDITORIAL PANEL Des Enjeux et des Hommes Carole, Séverine and Clotilde. PHOTO CREDITS AND INTERVIEWS Roquette is a global leader in plant-based Thanks to a constant drive for innovation and a Elodie Petit ingredients and a pioneer of new vegetal proteins. long-term vision, the Group is committed to Roquette employees In collaboration with its customers and partners, improving the well-being of millions of people all iStock Photo the Group addresses current and future societal over the world while taking care of resources and Eric Lebrun (Light Motiv) challenges by unlocking the potential of Nature to territories. offer the best ingredients for Food, Nutrition and Health markets. Each of these ingredients Roquette currently operates in over 100 countries, responds to unique and essential needs, and they has a turnover of around 3.5 billion euros and Have you recognized enable healthier lifestyles. employs 8,600 people worldwide. these elements? LEGAL INFORMATION p.2: leaves To the best of our knowledge, all information contained in this document is accurate. p.12: coffee emulsion However, all indications, recommendations and suggestions are provided without any p.17: wheat guarantees. Furthermore, none of the information provided should be considered as p.18: peas permission or incitation to infringe any existing patents. Partial or total reproduction of p.20: leaves this report is forbidden, unless prior written authorization is obtained from Roquette p.24: peas, corn and wheat Frères® and ™ indicate registered trademarks of Roquette Frères. 30 | ROQUETTE | ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2018 ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2018 | ROQUETTE | 31
