EVERY MOMENT MATTERS RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION ABOUT RADISSON HOSPITALITY 3 4 LETTER FROM THE CEO 6 HIGHLIGHTS 2018 9 EVERY MOMENT MATTERS 10 MATERIALITY & STAKEHOLDERS 11 ORGANIZATION & GOVERNANCE 13 MEMBERSHIPS 15 GLOBAL & INDUSTRY GOALS 16 RECOGNITION 17 THINK PEOPLE 18 THINK COMMUNITY 38 THINK PLANET 49 APPENDIX 67 ECO-LABELED HOTELS 68 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS 72 GLOBAL COMPACT COMPLIANCE 73 GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURES TABLE 74 SLAVERY AND HUMAN TRAFFICKING STATEMENT 76 AUDITOR’S REPORTS / CONTACTS 79 2 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 Radisson Blu Hotel, Frankfurt INTRODUCTION SCOPE & BOUNDARIES The 2018 Radisson Unless indicated, achievements mentioned in this report Hospitality AB (Radisson) cover all hotels which are managed, leased or franchised by Radisson. This includes 380 properties which were Responsible Business Report in operation on 31 December 2018. For new hotels that were opened in 2018, or hotels that discontinued describes the most material operations during the year, data is only reported for the corporate responsibility months they were in operation. Radisson has limited the reporting boundaries to areas in which the company has and sustainability aspects full control over data collection and information quality. Downstream impacts are generally excluded as we do of our operations, not the not currently have reliable tools to measure their effect. full range of our actions Financial data presented in our Responsible and data. Unless otherwise Business Report is derived from audited annual accounts. For all external reporting, currencies have stated, the information in been converted to euros (€). Our financial reporting this report refers to the accounting principles and currency conversion rates are stated in Radisson Hospitality 2018 Annual Report. calendar year 2018. Radisson applies the precautionary principle. This Responsible Business Report also fulfils the statutory sustainability reporting requirements under the Swedish Annual Accounts Act (based on EU Directive 2014/95). This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. The Board of Directors have approved the Responsible Business report. This is Radisson’s 13th annual Responsible Business Report. 3 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 Radisson Blu Hotel, Biarritz AT A GLANCE ABOUT RADISSON HOSPITALITY Radisson Hospitality AB is one of the For more information on Radisson Hospitality AB, visit largest hotel companies in Europe, the www.radissonhospitalityab.com Middle East & Africa (EMEA). For more information on Radisson Hotel Group, visit www.radissonhotelgroup.com Radisson Hospitality AB is a member of Radisson Hotel Group, the 11th largest hotel group in the world. Through a master franchise agreement with Radisson Hospitality, Inc. – Radisson Hospitality AB operates and develops hotel brands; Radisson Collection, Radisson Blu, Radisson, Radisson RED, and Park Inn by Radisson, across EMEA; along with the Radisson Rewards loyalty program for frequent hotel guests. Radisson Hospitality AB features a portfolio of almost 500 hotels with more than 100,000 rooms in operation or under development in 78 countries across EMEA. Radisson Hospitality AB and its brands employ 45,000+ team members. Radisson Hospitality AB has an industry-leading Responsible Business Program and has been named one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies by the US think-tank Ethisphere nine times. Radisson Hospitality AB is headquartered in Brussels, Belgium. 4 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 Radisson Collection Hotel, Royal Copenhagen 5 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 LETTER FROM THE CEO THINK PEOPLE EVERYONE AT RADISSON IS COMMITTED TO MOVING THINK COMMUNITY OUR COMPANY FORWARD WITH REGARDS TO OUR THINK PLANET 2022 TARGETS THAT DEFINE HOW WE CARE FOR OUR PEOPLE, OUR COMMUNITIES AND OUR PLANET. 6 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 Radisson Collection Hotel, Strand Stockholm LETTER FROM THE CEO THINK PEOPLE THINK COMMUNITY THINK PLANET It has been an exciting year One major change has been the new brand architecture that saw us become Radisson Hotel Group in March for Radisson Hospitality AB 2018. As part of that transformation, we outlined our (‘Radisson’) in terms of our common vision, the beliefs and the behaviors that we are committed to and this has had a huge impact on commitments to corporate how we approach our corporate responsibilities. social responsibility. We As ever, Safety & Security is of paramount importance to have stepped up our efforts every single one of our hotels around the world. Before guests can relax and enjoy memorable moments, they to operate in a responsible need to know that our teams are providing them with the safest possible environment to stay in. manner that demonstrates our desire to create a better In response to the UN Sustainable Development Goals and the UK Modern Slavery Act, we continue to support world for you. human rights, business ethics, and diversity in all our hotels globally. Once again, we held our annual Community Action Month in June. This time, it was dedicated to our new global charity partner, SOS Children’s Villages – an organization that provides food, shelter and a brighter future for at-risk children. 7 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 2.1 % less energy 207 hotels certified with Throughout 2018, our teams have engaged passionately with their communities and contributed a total of €1m in We have a strong future ahead of us, with a strong plan to capture the full potential of our expanding portfolio cash and in-kind; dedicating more than 29,000 hours of across the world, a committed team aligned around our per m2 Safehotels Alliance volunteering time to local people and organizations. core cultural beliefs, and an infallible spirit to make every moment matter. In addition to Radisson’s company-wide initiatives, 3.5 % €1.0m we believe in the wider travel and hospitality industry, Everyone at Radisson is committed to moving our along with other partners, and working together can company forward with regards to our 2022 targets be a powerful force for good. That is why we are proud that define how we care for our people, our to participate in significant collaborative initiatives – communities and our planet. reduced water use donated to charity including the UN Global Compact and the UN CEO Water Mandate – that work towards building a better Thank you for supporting us in making every moment per guest night future for all. memorable and sustainable. Furthermore, as a member of the International Tourism Partnership (ITP), Radisson has built on its global commitment to focus on carbon, water, youth employment and human rights. FEDERICO J. GONZÁLEZ President and CEO, Radisson Hospitality AB Chairman of the Radisson Hotel Group Global Steering Committee 8 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 HIGHLIGHTS 2018 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS 2018 has been an exciting and memorable year Responsible Business in many ways for Radisson’s Responsible Business Performance Indicators program. Our main achievements include: Energy per m2 (kWh)* 2018 232 2017 245 2016 266 Energy per occupied room (kWh)* 2018 85 2017 86 2016 90 • 207 hotels certified by • €1.0 million donated to charity • 34 hotels are using 100 percent Water Footprint per guest-night (liters)* Safehotels Alliance renewable energy 2018 338 • 29,000 volunteering hours 2017 340 • The third modern slavery and were donated by Radisson • Carbon offsetting initiative 2016 349 human trafficking statement employees has compensated has been issued 48,155 tons of CO2 Carbon Footprint per guest-night (kgs CO2e)* • The global partnership launch 2018 20.7 2017 21.4 • Radisson Hospitality AB is with SOS Children’s Villages • 2.1 percent energy 2016 21.4 recognized for the 9th year and Radisson is supporting savings per m2 as one of the world’s most 219 individual children through • 3.5 percent water savings Safehotels Alliance Certification ethical companies child sponsorship in EMEA 2018 207 per guest-night 2017 199 • 1.35 million hours of classroom • The towel reuse initiative 2016 160 • The number of eco-labeled and on-the-job training helped to provide more than 24,000 children with safe hotels increased to 305, Eco-labeled Hotels representing 80 percent 2018 305 drinking water for life 2017 294 of hotels 2016 282 Guest Recognition Index 2018 7.80 2017 7.68 *Radisson-managed and leased hotels. 9 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 EVERY MOMENT MATTERS FIVE YEAR OPERATING PLAN Our actions, large and small, create a wave of positive impact on people, communities and the THINK PEOPLE Caring for people in our hotels and the value chain THINK COMMUNITY Contributing to communities with Food.Shelter.Future THINK PLANET A better planet for all planet to prove that Ethical business practices are at the core of our culture. We strive to provide a global work environment where Our sustainability actions support preservation of Every Moment Matters. Since 2007, our EMEA region has been included in the our team members can live our motto, Every Moment natural resources while contributing to the bottom “World’s Most Ethical Companies” list by Ethisphere. Matters; empowering them to grow, succeed and line and enhancing our ability to deliver Memorable Our ethical practices can be seen every day in the contribute to the communities where they live and work. Moments to our customers. At Radisson, we work every day towards building a way we treat our people; from customers and better collective future. We do that through being a true team members to suppliers and investors. In more than 1,000 destinations around the world, we • We issue clear targets to reduce our environmental host and best partner. We strive to be the most ethical This focus on ethical business practices is also partner with organizations that work in our communities footprint by 10 percent in terms of carbon company and are constantly adapting to our changing reflected in: to provide basic human needs such as food, shelter and emissions, water use and waste environment. We do all of this because travel matters. It • Radisson’s Supplier Code of Conduct, through create better futures. • We’ve committed to the International Tourism opens our eyes and senses to limitless boundaries. We which we communicate our standards and Partnership 2030 hotel industry goals to reduce our grow and respectfully do our part to leave our planet requirements to suppliers during purchasing processes. This is reflected in: carbon footprint and practice water stewardship better than we found it. It’s a commitment that takes all • Radisson’s Human Rights Policy expressing key • Our worldwide partnership with SOS Children’s within our hotels and our value chain. of us and we promise to be the partner that listens and principles such as non-discrimination or zero Villages International who work in 135 countries and • We pledge to align with the requirements of the adjusts, evolving together. tolerance on child labor. territories to ensure that children grow up in a safe COP21 climate agreement. • Global team training and programs that are and caring family environment, so they can develop • Commitment to innovation in our service offering preventing slavery and human trafficking. and reach their full potential. for example with Carbon Neutral meetings and The safety and security of guests and employees is • Water, sanitation and hygiene initiatives that help the aim to phase out single use plastics in a core value deeply rooted in our culture and one that women care for their families and girls attend meetings & events. we emphasize in the operation of our hotels. We have a school instead of fetching water. specific corporate, regional and hotel safety and security • Enabling a better future for vulnerable young program that is used by all our hotel brands worldwide people with various programs delivering to protect of all our guests and employees. employability and life skills. We foster an inclusive and diverse culture. Balanced leadership is at the heart of our diversity program at Radisson. We aim to attract and grow top talent and develop male and female leaders within the organization to their full potential. 10 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 MATERIALITY & STAKEHOLDERS STAKEHOLDERS RADISSON’S COMMITMENT We have defined the most material STAKEHOLDER RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS POLICY TO ITS STAKEHOLDERS IS TO topics for our organization in Employees We educate and facilitate our employees to make a conscious decision in favor of environmental, ethical, STRIVE TO BE A SUCCESSFUL accordance with the Global Reporting and social issues in their work and private lives. AND SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS. Initiative (GRI) process. Customers We inform and make it easy for our guests to participate in Responsible Business activities at our hotels. THIS REQUIRES A DEDICATED Radisson believes that we have a clear responsibility to take serious APPRECIATION OF THE action on the various material topics which face our company, and to continue to support the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Property Owners We work together with property owners to find innovative solutions that satisfy our economic, ENVIRONMENT IN WHICH environmental, and social objectives. WE OPERATE. Our most significant impacts are important, both for our long-term success as a company, and for our stakeholders. We understand that Shareholders We provide shareholders and investors with timely, accurate, and transparent information on Responsible they affect the decisions that stakeholders make in relation to Radisson. Business performance, related risks, and opportunities. We recognize that we have an impact on a wide range of stakeholders, both directly and indirectly. Suppliers We strive to purchase products that have a reduced environmental impact during their lifecycle, from We operate to high standards of performance and advocate socially and suppliers who demonstrate environmental and social environmentally sustainable business practices. We achieve this by making responsibility. Responsible Business the way we do business and by continuously evaluating Authorities We require our managers to abide by local and where we stand and how we can do better. international legislation, especially regarding labor laws, health and safety, human rights, and the environment. Radisson has identified eight Responsible Business stakeholder groups. We maintain clear commitments to each group. The basis for identifying Community We take an active role in the international responsible and selecting our key Responsible Business stakeholders relates primarily business community and contribute to the local to the extent we influence or impact them: economically, socially, or communities where we operate. environmentally. Environment We do our utmost to continuously improve our performance in the areas of energy and water use, chemical and resource consumption, and waste generation. Our goal is to reduce our impact on the environment and minimize our carbon footprint. 11 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 MATERIALITY & STAKEHOLDERS MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT Radisson must manage the impact of social, GLOBAL CONTEXT ethical, and environmental issues in an ever2018 marked the third year in which we have worked to implement the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. As a responsible leader in the industry, we evolving world. The group has undertaken a are conscious that our Responsible Business targets and actions need to contribute to these important global goals. materiality assessment to identify key issues, focus areas, priorities, and opportunities. For our materiality assessment, Radisson utilized the following internal and external sources: • Our company’s vision and long-term strategy informed our Responsible INTERNAL EXTERNAL Business Strategy and targets. In addition to being a key strategic • Radisson Hotel Group five-year strategy • UN Sustainable Development Goals initiative, Responsible Business influenced other essential elements of • Responsible Business strategy • Industry stakeholder survey (ITP) the plan such as Strategic Souring and Meetings and Events. • Culture assessment • Industry stakeholder dialogue (ITP) • The International Tourism Partnership (ITP) Industry Stakeholder • Stakeholder meetings • World Economic Forum reports Dialogue. ITP is a global platform which brings together leading hotel • Hotel owner meetings • UNWTO reports chains, including Radisson. ITP performed the analysis and mapping of • WTTC reports relevant ethical, social, and environmental issues through a stakeholder questionnaire and in-depth interviews. From this, a materiality matrix MATERIALITY ASPECTS OF RADISSON HOSPITALITY AB was developed which hotel chains used as the basis to identify their company’s materiality. • The World Travel & Tourism Council (WTTC) recognizes that security, • Safety and security • Community development • Carbon footprint demographics, resource scarcity, waste management, and business • Human rights • Community engagement • Renewable energy ethics are all issues that will influence how our industry will continue • Employment and • WASH • Energy efficiency to operate in future. Radisson used this information in support of our employability • Water stewardship materiality matrix. • People development • Waste management • Continuous interaction with various stakeholder groups (such as guests, • Talent management • Biodiversity suppliers, employees, local communities, investors, shareholders, owners, • Employability • Responsible supply chain and franchisees) through our daily operations and dedicated exchanges • Diversity and inclusion and a deeper engagement with individuals, NGO partnerships, and • Business ethics academics. • External contextual information and research such as the World Economic Forum Yearly Global Risks Report. 12 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS ORGANIZATION RADISSON’S RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS POLICY IS & GOVERNANCE EMBEDDED AT ALL LEVELS OF THE ORGANIZATION. WE COMBINE BOTH TOPDOWN AND BOTTOM-UP APPROACHES TO ENSURE MAXIMUM ENGAGEMENT IN OPERATIONS AND THE GREATEST IMPACT FOR THE GROUP. 13 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 Radisson Blu Hotel, Dubai Deira Creek ORGANIZATION REPORTING AND COMPLIANCE Monthly environmental statistics for managed and leased Head Office Board of Directors The Board of Directors is periodically informed about hotels are collected in the Think Planet section of our the Responsible Business progress and ethics reporting financial reporting and consolidation system. All hotels as needed. report their full Responsible Business performance in CEO and Executive Responsible Business reports to the Chief Resources the yearly RB Status Report. The report contains 136 Committee Officer. The Executive Committee is regularly updated checkpoints on Think People, Think Community, and on strategies, plans and progress. Think Planet. In 2018, 92 percent of our hotels provided an answer to the status report. Radisson checks the Responsible Business Sets the Responsible Business strategy and follow-up environmental compliance of all hotels. Department and ensures cross-departmental cooperation. The team works very closely with the Area Support Office teams ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES and hotels. During 2018, two hotels reported environmental Regions Regional Responsible A team of 23 Regional Responsible Business compliance issues. Business Coordinators Coordinators sets regional targets in line with group strategy. They also follow up on progress The Park Inn by Radisson Abeokuta (Nigeria) reported made by hotels. that air pollution is caused whenever the hotel’s generator switched on. The generator is required to Hotels Responsible Business Each hotel has a Responsible Business Coordinator power the hotel during outages in the local grid. The Coordinators and Responsible Business team. The Responsible hotel confirmed with local authorities that there are no Business Coordinator and their team jointly define issues with these emissions. the Responsible Business action plans in line with both regional and group priorities. All employees Park Inn by Radisson Meriton Conference & Spa have access to the Responsible Business training. Hotel Tallinn (Estonia) receives periodic penalties for discharges to water. This is a common issue for all hotels in Tallinn and results in a fine. Working with other hotels in the city who face the same problem, the hotel approached the water authority. The hotel is now evaluating the installation of an on-site sewage filtration system. 14 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS MEMBERSHIPS UN GLOBAL COMPACT UN CEO WATER MANDATE UN WOMEN EMPOWERMENT PRINCIPLES Radisson has been a UN Global Compact signatory since 2009. The UN Radisson was the first hospitality company to endorse the UN CEO In 2014, Radisson signed the UN Women’s Empowerment Principles. Global Compact allows companies who want to do business responsibly to Water Mandate in 2014. The UN CEO Water Mandate is a UN Global Designed for business, the principles offer guidance on how to empower align their strategies and operations with Ten Principles on human rights, Compact Action Platform which mobilizes business leaders on women in the workplace, marketplace, and community. They are the result labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. Signatories take strategic water, sanitation, and the UN Sustainable Development Goals. of a collaboration between the UN Entity for Gender Equality and the actions to advance broader societal goals, such as the UN Sustainable Empowerment of Women (UN Women), and the UN Global Compact. Development Goals, with an emphasis on collaboration and innovation. The Mandate partners work together with the United Nations, civil Compact is the world’s largest voluntary corporate sustainability initiative. society organizations, governments, and other stakeholders. Over 9,900 business and other stakeholders from 160 countries take part. INTERNATIONAL TOURISM PARTNERSHIP (ITP) OVERSEAS SECURITY ADVISORY COUNCIL (OSAC) SUSTAINABLE BRANDS INTERNATIONAL (SBI) The International Tourism Partnership (ITP) brings together the world’s Radisson is one of the founding members of the Hotel Security Radisson is a silver member of Sustainable Brands International (SBI). leading hotel companies to provide a voice for environmental and social Working Group (HSWG) at the US State Department Overseas SBI is the leading global community of forward-thinking businesses responsibility in the industry. Former President and CEO of Radisson, Security Advisory Council (OSAC). The Working Group exchanges which combine sustainability and brand strategy. SBI is the ideal Wolfgang M. Neumann, has been chairman of ITP since June 2015. information on potential threats, conducts joint training sessions platform for sustainable companies to discuss how they can meet Radisson continues to play a leading role in ITP, in particular the Youth annually, and enables members to monitor emerging threats. demand for more sustainable products, services, and business models. Career Initiative, the Hotel Carbon Measurement Initiative, Hotel Water Radisson continues to be one of the leading members of the HSWG. Inge Huijbrechts, Global Senior Vice President Responsible Business Measurement Initiative, and ITP’s human rights and human trafficking work. and Safety & Security, sits on the Sustainable Brands Advisory Board. 15 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS GLOBAL & INDUSTRY GOALS SUPPORTING ITP GOALS FOR 2030 UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS In 2017, Radisson, together with other leading global hotel brands, reached consensus for a The UN’s Sustainable Development Goals for 2030 came sustainable hotel industry. Under the guidance of the International Tourism Partnership (ITP), into force in 2016. Over the past three years, these global four goals for 2030 were announced. The goals support the UN’s Sustainable Development targets have mobilized countries, organizations, and Goals and focus on carbon, water, youth employment, and human rights. This long-term businesses to end poverty, fight inequality, and tackle commitment is a call to action across the industry. climate change, while ensuring that no one is left behind. Our Responsible Business strategy and actions support this industry-wide commitment. Radisson has analyzed the Responsible Business The ITP goals are a carefully constructed and practically achievable response to four of commitments against the Sustainable Development the core sustainability issues impacting responsible hospitality providers globally. Goals to show how we are contributing to end poverty and inequality, and reduce the impact of climate change. A table showing how we contribute to the achievement AT A GLANCE, THEY INCLUDE: of the Sustainable Development Goals can be found Carbon Embracing science-based targets and encouraging on page 70. the wider industry to join in reducing emissions at scale. COP24 IN KATOWICE Water Embedding water stewardship programs to reduce the The newly opened Park Inn by Radisson Katowice number of people affected by water scarcity, improving (Poland) hosted the Green European Economic water-use efficiency, and contributing to improved hygiene Congress in December 2018. The event brought together and sanitation for communities around the globe. politicians, entrepreneurs, CEOs, and experts who believe Youth Employment Collectively impacting one million young people through sustainable development is one of the key challenges employability programs by 2030, thereby doubling the of our time. The meeting was an accompanying event industry’s current impact on tackling youth unemployment. to the United Nations Conference on Climate Change (COP24), also held in Katowice. Human Rights Raising awareness of human rights risks, embedding human rights into corporate governance, and addressing risks arising The hotel team ensured that the event was plastic-free in the labor supply chain and during hotel construction. and as light on the environment as possible. Eco-friendly plates and cutlery were used in the VIP lounge, and all waste was recycled. Eco-friendly vehicles were also on show outside the hotel. 16 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 Park Inn by Radisson, Katowice RECOGNITION & AWARDS RECOGNITION A WORLD’S MOST ETHICAL COMPANY ECOVADIS SILVER SUSTAINABLE SUPPLIER ISS-OEKOM In 2018, Radisson was recognized as one of the World’s During 2018, Radisson was reassessed by EcoVadis The ISS-oekom Sustainability Solutions Assessment Most Ethical Companies by the Ethisphere Institute. as a sustainable supplier. We received the EcoVadis provides investors with information regarding the The group has been recognized annually since 2010 and Silver recognition for our sustainable practices. impact of a company’s product and service portfolio is one of only four in the lodging and hospitality industry, towards the UN Sustainable Development Goals. underscoring the company’s commitment to leading EcoVadis aims to improve the environmental and The Assessment contains an aggregate assessment, ethical business standards and practices. social practices of companies by leveraging the in the form of the Sustainability Solutions Score, and influence of global supply chains. The Silver award more detailed information and datapoints regarding This award, our ninth, reaffirms Radisson’s commitment places the Radisson amongst the top 30 percent of specific sustainability objectives. to responsible business. It also confirms our industrycompanies evaluated by EcoVadis. leading business ethics policy and practices, our During 2018, Radisson received the Prime rating. corporate citizenship principles, our corporate This indicates that the Group fulfils ISS-oekom’s governance, and our desire to serve a strong demanding sustainability performance requirements corporate purpose. for the hospitality sector. The designation recognizes companies that promote ethical business standards and practices internally, exceed legal compliance minimums, and shape future industry standards by introducing best practices today. 17 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 Radisson Blu 1835 Hotel & Thalasso, Cannes 18 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 THINK PEOPLE THINK PEOPLE 207 hotels certified 1.35 million hours of with Safehotels classroom and Alliance on-the-job training 3rd modern slavery 9th year as one of statement issued the world’s most ethical companies 19 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 THINK PEOPLE HUMAN RIGHTS RADISSON ABIDES BY THE UN’S GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES AND APPLIES THEM IN OUR POLICIES AND PROCEDURES. WE’VE COMMITTED TO THE INTERNATIONAL TOURISM PARTNERSHIP’S 2030 HOTEL INDUSTRY GOALS TO RAISE AWARENESS OF HUMAN RIGHTS RISKS, EMBED HUMAN RIGHTS INTO OUR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE, AND ADDRESS RISKS ARISING IN THE LABOR SUPPLY CHAIN. 20 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 THINK PEOPLE HUMAN RIGHTS Key human rights and ELIMINATING MODERN SLAVERY TOOLKIT TO COMBAT MODERN SLAVERY employment principles are Our aim is to combat and eliminate any form of modern slavery, and to operate our hotels free of To raise awareness of forced labor, Radisson developed a toolkit to combat modern slavery. The toolkit is available reflected in two policies, child exploitation and forced, bonded, or compulsory labor. We apply these principles to both our operations to all hotels and helps hotel management and HR teams in their efforts to combat the issue. Our efforts have a which complement our and in our supply chain. focus on protecting outsourced labor, which represents Code of Business Conduct FIGHTING MODERN SLAVERY 18.9 percent of the workforce in our hotels. and Ethics and clarify the WITH RESPONSIBLE RECRUITMENT Slavery is not just an historic issue, or one that only The toolkit provides guidance on how to combat modern slavery. It also details how hotel management principles we live and work exists in certain countries. It is still happening today, teams should engage with employees, how to check by in our hotels. and it occurs globally. In some regions, hotel operations rely on the talent of migrant workers who are hired as recruitment agencies, and what due diligence they should conduct. It includes back-of-house material employees or contracted through agencies. which increases the awareness of modern slavery amongst These policies are: employees. There are also support tools for general Migrant workers are amongst the most vulnerable managers and human resource teams at the hotels. • Human rights policy: covers Radisson’s groups in our labor force due to their immigration status. The toolkit is available in 16 languages. Across the Group, engagement on issues such as ethical business Radisson does not accept forced labor in our operations 61 percent of our hotels actively use the toolkit. conduct, the protection of children’s rights, or supply chain. Our responsible recruitment framework combating human trafficking, and protection helps to ensure we take an active approach to preventing SELF-ASSESSMENT QUESTIONNAIRE of the rights of employees. the use of forced labor in every part of our business. A vital part of the modern slavery toolkit is the hotel • Employment Principles: covers Radisson’s promises self-assessment tool. The questionnaire is designed to to our employees. These include non-discrimination, identify potential gaps and human rights vulnerabilities freedom of association, and the development of in the business processes of hotel properties. It also in-house talent. identifies the vulnerabilities of third-party intermediaries. These intermediaries typically provide services related to Both policies are publicly available, communicated on the recruitment, selection, hiring, transportation, training, internal channels, and made available to all hotels and and management of foreign workers. employees. 21 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 TACKLING FORCED LABOR WITH ITP PREVENTING HUMAN TRAFFICKING QATAR DIALOGUE The International Labor Organization estimates that DURING THE FOOTBALL WORLD CUP ITP and its members, including Radisson, attended a almost 25 million people are held in forced labor today. Prior to the 2018 World Cup in Russia, Radisson provided workshop with the Qatar Chamber of Commerce where To combat slavery in the hospitality industry, ITP and its refresher training on human trafficking and sex tourism they presented the hotel industry’s perspectives on the members, including Radisson, launched three principles to the 26 hotels in the host cities. General managers were country’s new labor law reforms. The workshop was held on forced labor at the Global Forum for Responsible instructed to ensure that the different departments knew as Qatar prepares to host the 2022 FIFA World Cup and Recruitment and Employment in June 2018. how to spot the possible signs, and the relevant incident shortly after the opening of an ILO project office in Doha. management procedures when they had concerns. The principles state: Hospitality is seen as a key sector for Qatar’s future The training included example scenarios which helped economy. The workshop was the first opportunity for 1. Every worker should have freedom of movement employees understand how to spot human trafficking ITP and its members to share good labor and human 2. No worker should pay for a job or sex tourism, during the various guest touchpoints rights practices. (pre-arrival, arrival, stay, and departure). The refresher 3. No worker should be indebted or coerced to work training was in addition to Radisson’s regular Living The discussion was very open, and there was significant Responsible Training module on human trafficking engagement from both public bodies and the private Radisson has business practices that seek to combat and sex tourism. sector. Workshop participants agreed to investigate modern slavery. The Group actively promotes measures opportunities to start pilot programs to tackle modern to prevent human trafficking throughout its businesses slavery, particularly forced labor. and supply chain. 22 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 THINK PEOPLE SAFETY & SECURITY THE FOUNDATIONS OF A MEANINGFUL, MEMORABLE, AND RESPONSIBLE HOSPITALITY BUSINESS ARE BEING A TRUE HOST AND WELCOMING GUESTS INTO A SAFE AND SECURE ENVIRONMENT. 23 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 Park Inn by Radisson, Yas Island THINK PEOPLE SAFETY & SECURITY Radisson’s core value is the TRIC=S The Guest Security and Employee Safety cornerstones SAFETY AND SECURITY COLLABORATION safety and security of guests In 2007, Radisson developed and introduced a formula known as TRIC=S to localize our approach to safety and require us to limit the risk of any guest or employee becoming injured or ill while staying at, or working in, Radisson is a founding member and was the 2017 Chair of the US State Department’s Overseas Security and employees. It is deeply security. TRIC=S stands for: our hotels. The Operational Security cornerstone requires us to actively prevent any operational disruptions in Advisory Council (OSAC) Hotel Security Working Group (HSWG). The Working Group exchanges information rooted in our culture and the Threat assessment + the hotel. Any disruptions that may occur should be as on potential threats, conducts joint training sessions values that we emphasize in Risk evaluation and mitigation + limited as possible in cost, length, and degree. Data and IT Security are essential for the protection of personal annually and enables members to monitor emerging threats. The exchange of information is vital to help us Incident response capability + the operation of our hotels. Crisis management, communication, and continuity = data and the operation and assets of the hotels. understand evolving threats, and Radisson continues to be one of the leading members of OSAC. We have We have a specific program Safe and secure hotels The TRIC=S formula is aligned with the Global Hotel worked together with our counterparts to share for corporate and regional Due to the development of TRIC=S, the role of Security Standard® and Safehotels Alliance criteria. information and good practices. This benefits both the hotel industry and everyone who depends on us to hotel safety and security. It corporate safety and security shifted from a reactive and centralized command-and-control model to a SAFEHOTELS ALLIANCE In 2015, Radisson became the first major international provide safe and secure hospitality around the world. is used by all of our hotel more proactive, decentralized, and dynamic role. The hotel group to sign an agreement with Safehotels The OSAC working group has held annual joint training brands worldwide to protect change enabled safety and security to play a vital part in supporting our growing number of hotels in many Alliance. Safehotels Alliance certifies hotels against their own, independent ‘Global Hotel Security Standard’. workshops, facilitated by experts from the State Department, local governments and HSWG members. our guests, employees, different locations. Hotels are independently audited. The process both simplifies and improves our duty of care and due Radisson also has leadership roles at local OSAC country councils in Brazzaville (Congo) and Brussels (Belgium). properties, and reputation. The TRIC=S formula protects our five cornerstones: diligence procedures. It is increasingly being endorsed Fire Safety, Guest Security, Employee Safety, and embraced by Radisson’s clients. Operational Security and Data and IT Security. At the end of 2018, 207 Radisson hotels of our EMEA The Fire Safety cornerstone requires us to prevent or portfolio, had gained Safehotels certification. reduce the risk of fire at our hotel properties by having equipment, procedures, and training programs in place. It also requires us to take fire prevention into consideration when renovating or refurbishing. 24 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 CYBER SECURITY TRAINING CRISIS MANAGEMENT, COMMUNICATION Like many industries, hospitality is becoming increasingly AND CONTINUITY dependent on mobile, net-based applications and After the Mali attack, we had two companies do a review transactions. There have been numerous highly of our existing crisis plan. Both suggested that we publicized incidents of hacking and data loss around the organize crisis management to follow the international world. Cyber security has been given deserved attention best practice of from our IT and Operations experts who also follow the • “Gold” strategic level = Steering committee TRIC=S formula to determine the threat, mitigate the • “Silver” tactical level = Area or Corporate Support risks and prepare for possible incidents or disruption. Office Crisis team This includes requiring all employees who have access • “Bronze” operational level = hotels to our networks, to undergo online training in the secure use of equipment as well as in safe storage and sharing The concept is a flexible response determined by of information. the scope and scale of incident. It allows for a rapid assessment and escalation of an incident to the Since 2017, a focused, high level task force has also been management. Additional trainings and desktop in place to prepare Radisson for the incoming reform of exercises are carried out regularly. the General Data Protection Regulation that came into effect in the EU in May 2018. HOTREC GENERAL ASSEMBLY HOTREC is an umbrella association representing hotels, restaurants, bars, cafes, and similar establishments in Europe. The organization brings together 43 national associations from 30 countries and is the voice of the hospitality industry in Europe. In 2018, Radisson initiated and oversaw a workshop with a specific focus on safety & security at HOTREC’s General Assembly. The Group also represented the association at the EU Forum on safety and security held in December 2018. 25 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 Radisson Blu Hotel, Frankfurt THINK PEOPLE EMPLOYMENT & EMPLOYABILITY EMPLOYMENT AND EMPLOYABILITY EMPLOYEES BY AGE In 2018, Radisson counted 149 nationalities amongst Below 24 15.6% our employees. Women comprise 42.5 percent of our Between 25 30 25.5% employees while 57.5 percent are men. Of our total Between 31 40 31.7% workforce, 13 percent is outsourced labor, mainly in housekeeping and banqueting departments. Collective Between 41 50 16.4% bargaining agreements cover 37 percent of our Between 51 60 8.4% employees. Between 61 65 1.7% Above 65 0.6% EMPOWERING EMPLOYEES AND SOCIAL DIALOGUE In line with the European Union Directive on Works Councils (94/45/EC), Radisson has established a European Works Council. The Council includes representatives of our central management, employees, EMPLOYEES BY GENDER and is attended by the Chief Resources Officer. Annual Male 57.5% meetings are held, including in 2018. Topics such as the Female 42.5% Group’s finances, business development, performance, ethics and human rights, responsible business, and other important issues are discussed with employee representatives. 26 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 TACKLING YOUTH UNEMPLOYMENT YCI conducts a threeto six-month education program Reducing youth unemployment is a global responsibility. which empowers disadvantaged young people and Although the worldwide travel and tourism industry trains them for their future professional and social life. supports one in 10 jobs, there are more than 71 million It helps students between 18 and 21 who have dropped young people unemployed. As responsible hoteliers, out of school, lack the financial means to complete their Radisson understands that we have a key role to play in education, or are at risk of exploitation. Success rates are addressing this issue and creating job opportunities for impressive: 85 percent of the program’s graduates get a underprivileged youth. Radisson had over 6,500 trainees job at Radisson hotels or another company, or continue during 2018. their education. We are currently running successful YCI programs in five countries (Ethiopia, Lebanon, Of our hotels, 15.9 percent currently work with a training Sierra Leone, Senegal, and Zambia). or apprentice program for youth-at-risk. PARK INN BY RADISSON FUNDRAISING FOR YCI DISCOVERING THE TALENT All Park Inn by Radisson hotels support YCI in its goal OF UNDERPRIVILEGED YOUTH of helping at-risk youth through various fundraising The Youth Career Initiative (YCI) is a global project to activities. During 2018, Park Inn by Radisson hotels raised enhance the employability of underprivileged young €9,900 which was donated to YCI. The funds are used people. YCI was developed by the hotel industry for to support the development of the YCI program, and the hotel industry. It is a valuable program which to explore opportunities to grow the initiative in areas allows hotels to make a real difference in the lives of its where we operate. graduates and their families. 27 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 THINK PEOPLE PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT & TALENT MANAGEMENT GLOBAL CULTURE AND BELIEFS Believing in our promise means that we believe every At Radisson, we believe that people are our moment is an opportunity for our global team members number-one asset. Radisson’s culture plays an to serve, improve, have fun, make an impression, go important role in our business transformation, above and beyond, learn, stretch, grow, and innovate. and in our future business success. Evolving our culture will change the way we work, Our goal is to evolve a new, united, and consistent where we work, and how we work. And over time, culture across the world which will help us achieve employees will feel increasingly valued and be actively our global vision to become: engaged and excited to have a career with Radisson. As an employer, we will integrate our Culture Beliefs 1. One of the three ‘top of mind’ hotel companies and Every Moment Matters employer brand into our in the world talent processes, systems, and resources to show 2. A company of choice for guests, property owners, investment in our employees. and talent. If we are successful, people who want to work in hospitality will always think of Radisson first FOUNDATION OF OUR CULTURE A strong corporate culture is powerful. When employees OUR CULTURE JOURNEY IN 2018 agree with, and care intensely about our beliefs, During 2018, we rebranded as Radisson Hotel Group our company performance will increase due to their worldwide. At the same time, we recognized that we motivation. As part of our five-year strategic plan, have different cultures in the different areas of the Radisson has identified the following shared beliefs world where we operate. These differences are due which serve as the foundation of our corporate culture: to our historical business models, ownership, and • We deliver memorable moments every day, even distinct hotel brand portfolios. everywhere, every time To successfully ensure Every Moment Matters for our • We enjoy serving with our “Yes I Can!” spirit guests, owners, and talent, we decided that we needed • We grow talent, talent grows us to align our cultures to create a customer-focused experience which delivers that brand promise. A • We are many minds, with one mindset culture that empowers everyone to ensure a consistent • We value open and direct interactions to build trust experience for every guest at every property and workplace around the globe. • We believe anything is possible • We have fun in all that we do These beliefs are true to who we are and what we want to achieve as we pursue the ambitious journey. 28 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 FOUNDATIONS RADISSON TALKS In 2018, Radisson launched its new Foundations globally. In 2018 we launched the ‘Radisson Talks’, a space They are: Lead, Think, Own, Collaborate, and Deliver. where teams can come together and receive updates about our five-year plan initiatives, and how they’re Over time, these Foundations have become the core being rolled out in different departments. Radisson of Radisson’s development and talent processes. They Talks help people connect, which increases help every team member perform at their best so we interdepartmental collaboration. can continue to improve for ourselves, our team, our guests, and the company. We host Radisson Talks at least once a month from our head office in Brussels. We also live stream the The Foundations enable team members to bring our talks that are relevant for hotel-based employees so vision and global Culture Beliefs to life at our hotels they can access them. and offices around the world. This initiative is part of a broader internal They define how we assess, develop, and coach our communications strategy to build and develop hoteltalent. They also encourage open communication centric and real-time communication with and ongoing conversations between all employees our employees. as we discuss current performance and future development goals. The Foundations provide the framework to help everyone create a memorable journey at Radisson, and they aim to empower our team members to be at their best, every day, everywhere, every time. 29 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 NEW APPLICANT TRACKING SYSTEM AND CAREER SITES Prioritizing internal talent is key to our company’s With more than 10,000 job vacancies annually across growth. After all, one of our key beliefs is that we grow 78 countries, Radisson has launched a new Talent talent and talent grows us. Our recruiters are strongly Center, and internal and external career sites for the encouraged to post internally and prioritize internal Group. They represent a major step forward in the talent during the selection process where skills and implementation of our Digital HR Transformation experience allow. Whether they originate internally and Talent Acquisition strategy. or externally, the best candidate gets the job. The Applicant Tracking System is highly specialized LEARN TO GROW and tailored to the needs of the business. It provides 2018 Has seen a major change in Radisson’s learning management tools and the strategic insights that and development offer. are necessary to make a real-time impact on attracting talent. Under one global learning and development vision, we aim to provide highly effective learning experiences The new tools are integrated into our new human which develop the skills and behaviors of our talents resource information system (HRIS). They allow and align them with the company’s beliefs and business decentralized teams to source, hire, and manage goals. Radisson now offers 37 online and classroomtop talent using media-rich profiles and streamlined based courses. mobile tools. At the same time they allow to follow applicants and employees more efficiently, leading In 2018, we offered more than 1.35 million hours of to the long-term success of our teams. classroom and on-the-job training through all platforms and learning cycles. This is approximately 24 hours per employee. To enable growth and equip our team members with the tools and new skills they need, we have introduced the Radisson Academy. 30 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 RADISSON ACADEMY RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS TRAINING The Radisson Academy provides individual team Since 2008, Radisson’s Living and Leading Responsible members with different ways to learn the right skill, at Business classroom-based courses have been part of the right time, and in the right way. Regardless of their our Learning and Development offer and are mandatory profession, level of training, role, or seniority, we aim to for all employees. The strengths of the training are its provide a relevant learning path for each team member. interactivity and intense Q&A moments. Annual refresher sessions are held in each hotel. The Living and Leading Our Learning and Development strategy focuses on Responsible Business course shows best practices on the Radisson Academy Live, our instructor-led trainings the job, and at home. dedicated to Business and Leadership Development. Radisson Academy Live is presented once or twice per During the training, we focus on the three pillars year in each region of EMEA. Each Radisson Academy of Responsible Business and include topics such Live offers a substantial number of courses. as human rights and the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. A special module on human trafficking The Radisson Academy Online, based around our and child protection is also included. learning management system, allows team members to access cutting-edge digital learning tools. That means Leading Responsible Business focuses on how our employees can learn everywhere, at any time. management teams can drive Responsible Business Learning objects include infographics, videos, quizzes, action plans in their hotels. In 2018, 69 percent of short e-learning modules, and virtual classrooms. our employees received training or retraining in Team members can also contribute and enrich the Responsible Business. Group’s collective knowledge by connecting with other colleagues. They can share their expertise, learn from each other, and discuss their experiences. On-the-job training is another integral part of the Radisson Academy. Learning is based on the 70:20:10 model which shows that people achieve 70 percent of their learnings from challenging assignments, 20 percent from developmental relationships, and 10 percent from coursework and training. New team members can embrace integral elements of the Radisson’s DNA such as “Yes I can!” and Responsible Business through on-the-job training. New team members are placed with a senior peer when they start work in a hotel. The senior team member takes them through key trainings on a one-to-one basis. 31 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 THINK PEOPLE DIVERSITY & INCLUSION One of our core culture beliefs is that ‘we are many minds with one mindset’. This belief is based on Radisson’s respect for individual differences, life experiences, and diverse world views. By working together, we can make memorable experiences for everyone who walks through our doors. To enable that to happen, Radisson is dedicated to building a global team of employees that reflect the communities where we work and live, and the diversity of the customers we serve. Our guests and our talent deserve a safe environment where they are valued for who they are. As our workforce is driven by people from different backgrounds, personalities, and points of view, we strive to create places where everyone can express their authentic selves, seize opportunities, make decisions, and resolve conflicts. 32 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 BALANCED LEADERSHIP PROMOTING WOMEN IN LEADERSHIP Radisson is committed to Balanced Leadership. That Empowering women is a core principle at Radisson. means encouraging more women to take on leadership We have established a specific program called ‘Women roles within the company. The Group challenges existing in Leadership’ which aims to increase the number thinking and aims to increase the representation of women in senior positions and challenge existing of women in senior positions across the company. thinking on gender stereotypes. The initiative is driven by various actions within and outside the company. The initiative was highlighted by Women Change Africa (WCA), an online media platform which celebrates the At the end of 2018, 22 percent of our General Managers successes of young African women. WCA interviewed and 48 percent of the Heads of Departments at our Hafsatu Serry of the Radisson Blu Mammy Yoko Hotel hotels are female. (Sierra Leone). During 2018, 18 female employees at the hotel were CORPORATE SUPPORT OFFICE promoted into senior positions. This is the result of a Male 48% program which began when the hotel opened in 2014. Female 52% In this time, more than 120 vocational internships have been offered to women and the best have been offered positions as they became available. SUPPORTING WOMEN IN BUSINESS GENERAL MANAGERS In May 2018, the Radisson Blu M’Bamou Palace Hotel, Male 78% Brazzaville (Congo) sponsored and hosted the Forum Female 22% ‘Femmes Entrepreneures’. The event connects ambitious and innovative women with mentors, sponsors, experts, and investors. More than 200 female entrepreneurs took part. HEAD OF DEPARTMENTS The Forum is designed to give participants selfMale 52% confidence and inspiration, while offering access to Female 48% capital, technology, and knowledge. The women also had a chance to showcase their innovations and build business networks. 33 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 THINK PEOPLE DIVERSITY & INCLUSION BEST PRACTICES ACCESSIBILITY FOR ALL YCI GRADUATES All hotels in the Radisson portfolio are required to The Radisson Blu Martinez Hotel, Beirut (Lebanon) provide an environment which is accessible to everyone, hosted three YCI candidates in 2018. Sylvana, regardless of their abilities. At the end of 2018, 5 percent Mohammad, and Ghada all completed a six-month of the rooms in all our hotels were accessible. internship with the hotel team. The hotel worked together with YCI and Al Majmoua, a Lebanese nonThe Park Inn by Radisson Aberdeen (Scotland) hotel’s profit microfinance institution that supports microcommitment to accessibility was recently recognized entrepreneurs – particularly women – to develop by Simply Emma, a leading travel and disability blog sustainable businesses across Lebanon. focused on accessible travel and life experiences from a wheelchair user’s perspective. The three candidates accomplished every task set by the hotel during their internship, even when asked to take on different roles across different departments. Ghada impressed the hotel’s management team with her ability to learn quickly and assume full responsibility for the tasks she was set. Over the six-month internship she transformed, growing in self-confidence as she progressed. As a result, she was offered a permanent position at the hotel. The Radisson Blu Mammy Yoko Hotel, Freetown (Sierra Leone) participated in a range of projects, including a youth employment program with the Youth Career Initiative. It’s the first hotel in Sierra Leone to implement such a program. 34 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 Park Inn by Radisson, Aberdeen BRIGHT FUTURES The Park Inn by Radisson Kaunas (Lithuania) Alaa Zwaid moved to Belgium in 2014 after fleeing war has worked with a local youth organization to offer in Iraq. Since completing his traineeship Alaa has taken work experience to young persons not in education, on the role of Duty Manager at the Park Inn by Radisson employment, or training. Brussels Airport. Moving to Brussels has also provided Alaa with the opportunity to explore his creative An internship was offered to Karolis, a young man from potential. It’s yet another step in Alaa’s journey the local area. During the internship, Karolis was curious to create a new life for himself. and eager to learn new things. He quickly developed his skills – especially his communications skills – and STARTING OVER IN BELGIUM improved his self-confidence. He wasn’t scared to throw The Park Inn by Radisson Leuven (Belgium) has been himself into the role. With the help of the hotel’s team, helping mitigate the effects of the recent refugee crisis he realized that everything is possible when you try by providing jobs and training for young people looking and work hard. to build a new life in the country. Working closely with local youth organizations and schools such as Minor During his internship, Karolis learnt about the hospitality N’Dako and Don Bosco, the hotel is developing the young industry and how restaurants work. His goal was to refugee’s skills and finding them meaningful employment. become a waiter or a bartender. That ambition came to fruition in mid-2018 when he returned to the hotel Four of these youngsters have managed to develop as a full-time member of the restaurant’s team. their skills and secure jobs at the hotel. Originally from Afghanistan, Iran, Pakistan, and Palestina, all of them had OPPORTUNITIES AT HEADQUARTERS traumatic journeys from their home countries to Belgium. Radisson employs people from many different backgrounds. We believe this enriches our organization Despite this hardship, they are all highly motivated to and makes every Radisson team member unique. succeed. The training they have received has enabled Traineeships give us another way to enhance the them to find employment in the hotel’s restaurant diversity of our teams. That’s a journey that one and catering departments. Thanks to the Park Inn by of our trainees at the Corporate Support Office Radisson Leuven’s initiative, all four can look forward in Brussels took in 2018. to very bright futures. 35 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 THINK PEOPLE BUSINESS ETHICS WORLD-CLASS ETHICAL BUSINESS FOR NINTH YEAR In 2018, Radisson was listed as one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies for the ninth year in succession. This prestigious honor is awarded by the Ethisphere Institute, a US think-tank dedicated to business ethics. This ninth honor underscores Radisson’s commitment to leading ethical business standards and practices. More than ever, we believe that following these standards ensures we provide long-term value to key stakeholders including customers, employees, suppliers, regulators, and investors. The World’s Most Ethical Companies designation recognizes companies which align their principles with action and work constantly to make trust an integral part of their corporate DNA. In doing so, they shape future industry standards by introducing tomorrow’s best practices today. The World’s Most Ethical Company assessment is based on the Ethisphere Institute’s Ethics Quotient™ (EQ) framework. The EQ framework has been developed through years of research and is vetted and refined by the experts on Ethisphere’s Methodology Advisory Panel. The EQ offers a quantitative way to assess a company’s performance in an objective, consistent, and standardized way. 36 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 THINK PEOPLE COMPLIANCE CODE OF BUSINESS CONDUCT AND ETHICS ETHICS TRAINING ANTI-CORRUPTION ANTI-BRIBERY TRAINING Radisson’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics governs Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics applies to Radisson does not make any contributions or give Our anti-bribery e-learning training provides participants how we do business. It enables us to take positions on every person who works for Radisson, and every one of other support (direct or indirect) to political parties with an opportunity to understand our company’s key issues of business ethics with a single voice. The our companies. The Code is distributed to all employees or individual politicians. Radisson receives no direct policies and procedures. This enables them to correctly code includes ten principles which guide us whenever a through the Employee Handbook. The Code of Business or significant financial subsidies from governmental respond to any bribery related issues. The training is in business decision needs to be made. The principles are: Conduct and Ethics is also available in summary and organizations in the countries where we operate hotels. line with the UK Bribery Act and the US Foreign Corrupt detailed forms on radissonhospitalityab.com. It is also Practices Act (FCPA). 1. We respect the law included in our internal Procedures Manual. However, a number of our hotels have received subsidies 2. We show respect for all persons in all situations or tax relief for their Think Planet environmental The aim of the course is to educate individuals about All employees are trained in the Code of Business investments. These subsidies totaled €205,000 in 2018. anti-bribery regulations and the consequences if they 3. We think ethically Conduct and Ethics, its implications, and reporting Subsidies or tax relief for environmental investments are not applied correctly. At the end of the training, 4. We act fairly processes. Training occurs in the classroom-based were granted in Germany, Switzerland, Ireland, Turkey participants know how to recognize bribery, which Living Responsible Business course which is and South Africa. actions are considered to be bribery, and how to 5. We do not discriminate against anyone for any mandatory for all employees. react when confronted with bribery. reason ANTI-BRIBERY COMPLIANCE 6. We are honest and transparent ETHICS HOTLINE Compliance with the UK Bribery Act and the US Foreign No data is available on the number of employees who A key pillar of ethics at Radisson is Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) is promoted by: took anti-bribery training in 2018 due to the transition 7. We are loyal to our employer ethics.radissonhotels.com. The website is run by an of systems and change in learning architecture. • Making anti-bribery part of our Code of Business 8. We do not exploit the company’s resources independent third-party organization, Ethicspoint. Conduct and Ethics 9. We think of safety at all times Employees can use the site to find information on • Training employees 10. We take care of the planet. our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and report • Inserting a reference to the legislation in all partner concerns anonymously. Any employee with concerns or During 2018, the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics contracts questions about the Code is encouraged to raise these was updated in response to the EU’s new General Data directly with their supervisor or person of trust in the • Confirming compliance by all employees in Protection Regulation (GDPR). hotel or regional organization. management positions once every year If this is not possible, the employee can report the matter of concern online. Investigations are conducted in a timely and sensitive manner. The site and hotline are available in 11 languages. 37 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 38 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 THINK COMMUNITY THINK COMMUNITY €1.0m New 24,000 donated to charity SOS Children’s children provided Villages is with safe drinking global partner water for life 29,000 50 219 volunteering hotels in Soap individual children hours for Hope™ supported through program child sponsorship 39 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 THINK COMMUNITY COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT As a global hospitality PARTNERSHIP WITH SOS CHILDREN’S VILLAGES company, Radisson aims to Radisson became a global partner of SOS Children’s Villages in 2018. SOS Children’s Villages are active in create relationships which 135 countries and territories. The organization provides orphaned and vulnerable children with family support are beneficial to our business and care programs, as well as education, medical, and and the communities in emergency relief efforts. which we operate. We Through the partnership with SOS Children’s Villages, Radisson aims to have each of its operational hotels recognize that there are sponsor the upbringing and education of at least important social needs in one child. They will also establish meaningful local relationships with SOS Villages worldwide and mobilize many of these communities. local supporters and volunteers to help the charity achieve its goal of ensuring that no child grows up alone. Our goal is to have a positive impact on those We are also committed to inspire guests to engage. As a first step, the partnership will be connected to communities by creating Radisson Rewards, the group’s loyalty program. shared value. GUESTS SUPPORT SOS WITH RADISSON REWARDS Members of the Radisson Rewards program can already donate points to help SOS Children’s Villages. The We achieve this through the Think Community pillar of points are used to provide children with school supplies, our Responsible Business program. Think Community clothes, and even special surprises. There is no maximum initiatives generate meaningful donations and volunteer number of points a member may donate. time. In 2018, the value of Radisson’s cash and in-kind donations to international and local charities amounted To get started, visit: radissonhotels.com/rewards/sos to more than €1.0 million. 40 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 THINK COMMUNITY FOOD. SHELTER. FUTURE As part of Think Community, MEET LUIS PEDRO Radisson partners with The life of Luis Pedro was completely disrupted when he was just a toddler and civil war broke out in organizations that work Mozambique. As his parents had no way to take care of him, his mother left him with an old lady. But she passed to better the community. him on to social services. At the age of three, Luis came Our goal is to provide to live in an SOS Children’s Village. food, shelter, and a better Luis studied at SOS Children’s Village schools where he finished high school. The organization then financed future for children and vocational studies in hospitality management. As part at-risk youth. We want all of that program, Luis joined the Radisson Blu Hotel & Residence, Maputo (Mozambique) for a short internship our hotels to support SOS in 2013 – and he is still there today as a full-time employee in the Banqueting department. Children’s Villages with Food.Shelter.Future and Luis put SOS Children’s Villages forward as a perfect local partner for the hotel, long before Radisson signed to sponsor the upbringing a global agreement to cooperate with the charity. and work locally with organizations that support the same goal. 41 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 INTERNSHIPS IN KENYA INTERNSHIPS WITH SOS CHILDREN’S VILLAGE The Park Inn by Radisson Nairobi Westlands (Kenya) As part of our support for SOS Children’s Villages, has offered three-month internships to two girls from many Radisson hotels are looking for ways to provide the SOS Children’s Village Buruburu. The goal is to a brighter future for at-risk youth. That includes training enhance their employability and create a better future young people to help reduce youth unemployment in for the girls. the communities where we operate. During their internships, the girls will work in different Radisson hotels in Dubai have sponsored four young parts of the business to gain skills and find what interests people from SOS Children’s Villages on an internship them. If positions become available in their areas of program. The program lasts for three months with interest, the hotel will give them priority when it comes the view of offering them permanent employment. to employing new team members. By leveraging the specialized skills and talents of hotel employees, the internships will make a real difference in the lives of the graduates and their families. Since they joined at the end of 2018, the young interns are doing well and have integrated well with the hotel team. 42 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 A COOKING MASTERCLASS SUPPORTS in Aberdeen. Various initiatives have been agreed, such VULNERABLE CHILDREN as week-long work placements for five students. Modern Demonstrating that there are many ways to support atlanguage students can also visit the hotel to practice risk youth, the Radisson Blu Hotel, Chelyabinsk (Russia) their language skills with team members and guests. recently hosted a cooking masterclass for local orphans Students in the middle of their high-school studies have and adopted children. It gave our chefs the chance to also visited the hotel to find out more about hospitality. share time and some fun skills with the children. TRAINEESHIPS IN STUTTGART The event took the form of a culinary masterclass. In a Joblinge provides disadvantaged and unemployed youth friendly and relaxed atmosphere, the children prepared with the opportunity to earn a long-term placement in their own dinner under the guidance of a professional an apprenticeship or job and get a start in life. Since chef – and learned some useful cooking and serving 2017, Joblinge and the team at the Park Inn by Radisson secrets as well. Stuttgart (Germany) have been involved in a number of projects to help local youth. The masterclass was a great experience for all involved. First up was a joint street art project under the auspices DEVELOPING THE YOUTH WORKFORCE of Adding Color to Lives. Working with the world Creating opportunities for young people is an important renowned artist Joel Bergner, young people from element of our Responsible Business activities and that Joblinge created a 5 × 33 meter mural on a local street. is why the Park Inn by Radisson Aberdeen (Scotland) The theme of the mural was ‘acknowledge your past, has been working with schools to provide valuable appreciate the present, and look forward to the future learning experiences for local youth. with confidence’. At the beginning of 2018, the hotel team reached The Park Inn by Radisson has also arranged 21 work out to Developing the Young Workforce (DYW). placements in hotel management and cooking. After The organization connects employers and educators completing the places, three participants were offered to help young people build their future careers. DYW full-time positions at the hotel. put the hotel team in touch with the Harlaw Academy 43 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 THINK COMMUNITY COMMUNITY ACTION MONTH Every June, Community Action Month is celebrated across Radisson. As well as activating its partnership with SOS Children’s Villages, in June 2018, the group carried out activities worldwide to help support children and young people. 44 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 HOTEL INITIATIVES DURING COMMUNITY ACTION MONTH • The Radisson Blu Plaza Hotel, Oslo (Norway) Employees from many of our hotels organized specific ran a very successful Responsible Business events to celebrate the Community Action Month 2018. lottery. The goal was to make everyone a winner, A few of the many highlights included: put SOS Children’s Villages on the agenda, and • The Group’s hotels in Tallinn (Estonia) sponsored give our guests a chance to win some great and visited children at the local SOS Children’s prizes. The lottery raised over €2,200. Village. There, they offered in-kind donations of • Radisson’s Academy Live took place during clothes and shoes. June at the Radisson Blu Hotel London Stansted • Radisson Blu Port Elizabeth Hotel (South Africa) Airport (UK). After a presentation on the work put on a ‘braai’ feast and a game of football for of SOS Children’s Villages, participants began children from the local SOS Children’s Village. a gift-wrapping competition. Everyone had The hotel has committed to support the Village brought educational stationery which was giftwith their recycling program, and by performing wrapped in teams. The gifts were donated to maintenance work on their property. SOS Children’s Villages. • The Radisson Blu Hotel, Hamburg Airport • Radisson’s hotels in Riga (Latvia) worked together (Germany) provided SOS Children’s Villages to run activities during Community Action Month. Hamburg with help. In addition to supporting In addition to fundraising activities, volunteers a successful back-to-school campaign which joined together to sell coffee in exchange for equipped the children for the new school year, donations. Together they raised €3,000 in just the team provided food and catered for the a week. The teams also incorporated an activity Family Day at their local SOS Children’s Village. into the General Managers conference. Seventeen children and two mums from the local SOS Children’s Village were specially invited to join the evening BBQ. Afterwards, teams competed in a relay race with a football theme. Over €600 was raised and the football goals were donated too. 45 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 THINK COMMUNITY MORE STORIES GIFT OF FAMILY IN DUBAI MANDELA DAY Radisson hotels in Dubai (UAE) are running the ‘Gift of Employees of Radisson’s Johannesburg hotels took Family’ campaign. During checkout, guests are asked if part in Nelson Mandela Day by devoting their time to they would like to add 5 dirham to their bill to support the SOS Children’s Village in Ennerdale (South Africa). SOS Children’s Villages in Lebanon and Jordan. The initiative is part of the ‘67 Minutes for Mandela’ campaign which calls on people to donate one BOX APPEAL SUCCESS AGAIN minute of time annually for every year Mandela The Box Appeal has become a well known yearly spent in public service. The team donated boxes with charity campaign in UAE. It is a campaign, initiated essentials and coloring books to the Village. by Radisson Hotels, that makes it simple for the public to take part. Based on a suggested list of necessities, BRILLIANT BASICS the public fills boxes with a range of everyday items Radisson has restructured its brand architecture and and drops them off at any Radisson Blu or Park Inn defined Brilliant Basics. Brilliant Basics are the items hotel in the UAE. Around 8,000 boxes were distributed guests will find at every hotel, such as professional to construction workers in the area. hairdryers and LED TVs. The campaign is a way for the local community to As a result of the implementation of the Brilliant Basics, provide support to the many foreign workers in the more than 22,000 items like hair dryers and televisions, United Arab Emirates. It could not happen without and room furnishings including mattresses, duvets, and the support of media partners and sponsors including pillows have been donated to local charities. Dubai Municipality, Coca Cola, ITP Media Group, Herbert Smith Freehills, and local schools and universities. 46 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 THINK COMMUNITY WASH WATER, SANITATION, AND HYGIENE (WASH) WASH WITH JUST A DROP Did you know that by 2030, One example of WASH in action is Radisson’s partnership with Just a Drop. This international water demand for freshwater charity works to bring safe drinking water to waterstressed communities. will exceed supply by 40 percent? A lack of clean Just a Drop receives funds from our ‘Towel Reuse’ program. Every time a guest chooses to reuse their drinking water, and poor towels for a second night, we donate to Just a Drop. The money is used to fund projects such as digging wells, sanitation and hygiene, installing pumps, and implementing sanitation tools. are already responsible for In the past three years, the Towel Reuse program has keeping the world’s funded 21 projects in India, Kenya, Nicaragua, Peru, Uganda, and Zambia. poorest people in poverty. The projects help children stay healthy and enable them to attend school. They also empower women by As part of our Think Community initiatives, reducing the amount of time they need to source water Radisson supports local communities by providing for their families. Overall health conditions are also safe drinking water, sanitation and hygiene through improved and job opportunities are created. various WASH initiatives. In Kenya, Just a Drop has been able to introduce sustainable agricultural practices to communities. The charity has also brought clean water to remote villages in Nicaragua, and significantly improved sanitation in a number of Indian villages. As with all Just a Drop projects, each project is community-led and sustainable. The projects are designed to provide long-term benefits and ensure people have clean water for decades to come. 47 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 SAFE WATER ACCESS IN UGANDA CARBON FREE MEETINGS SUPPORT An example of how Towel Reuse donations are put WASH PROJECTS IN MALAWI to work, is in Katadde, Uganda, where Just A Drop For its carbon offsetting projects, Radisson began construction of two community boreholes works with First Climate. The offset projects help in 2018. Before the boreholes were constructed, to rehabilitate boreholes and ensure clean water is the community had to collect water from open available to water stressed communities. As well ponds and swamps. as providing health benefits to the community, deforestation is reduced because less firewood This water was highly contaminated, meaning children is needed to boil the water. This results in less suffered from illness. Women and girls feared sexual deforestation and an increase of carbon capture assault and snake bites when collecting water as the capabilities. Communities also earn money by ponds were in secluded areas. maintaining the boreholes. With the completion of the project, the Katadde community has access to safe water. SOAP FOR HOPE™ Another WASH initiative is Soap for Hope™, a soap recycling action in partnership with one of our main suppliers, Diversey. The project sees local communities take used soap from our hotels and turn it into new bars. They can be sold to produce income or are donated to those in need. Approximately 50 of our hotels currently participate. 48 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 49 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 Park Inn by Radisson, Muscat THINK COMMUNITY THINK PLANET 34 80 % 328 hotels with 100% of hotels are electric-car renewable energy eco-labeled charging stations 3.5 % 2.1 % 48,155 water saved energy saved tons CO2 offset 50 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 THINK PLANET PRINCIPLES At Radisson, we are making efforts to reduce Think Planet our carbon, energy, water, and waste footprint as Performance Indicators part of our Think Planet. Our goal is to reduce the Energy per m2 (kWh)* negative impact of our business on the planet, 2018 2017 232 245 and to protect valuable natural resources for 2016 266 Energy per occupied room (kWh)* future generations. 2018 85 2017 86 2016 90 We issue clear targets to minimize our environmental footprint and measure our progress toward this goal. We actively strive to use smart technologies to limit our energy and water Water Footprint per guest-night (liters)* 2018 338 use, and work closely with suppliers, employees, and guests to reduce waste. By 2022, we 2017 340 aim to reduce our water consumption and carbon footprint by 10 percent (compared to 2016 349 2017), in addition to the significant reductions that were achieved in the years prior. Carbon Footprint per guest-night (kgs CO2e)* 2018 20.7 Radisson is an industry pioneer in the area of environmental sustainability. In 1989, we were 2017 21.4 a part of the first hotel group in the world to adopt an environment policy. In 2012 we 2016 21.4 began to define clear Think Planet targets for to reduce our environmental footprint and measure progress. We’ve also committed to the hotel industry’s International Tourism Carbon Footprint per m2 (kgs CO2e)* 2018 82.1 Partnership 2030 goals which aim to align with science-based Targets and best practice 2017 88.8 water stewardship. 2016 93.1 *Radisson-managed and leased hotels. 51 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 ENERGY ENERGY SAVING RESULTS GREEN BUILDINGS LED RETROFIT During 2018, Radisson’s energy intensity was 85 kWh As part of Think Planet, we focus on making investments In both new and existing buildings, we have deployed per occupied room. Energy per square meter was in our properties which will make a significant difference LED lighting to reduce our energy use while maintaining at 232 kWh. These figures represent a 2.1 percent to our environmental performance. That starts with the guest safety and security. Most of our hotels combine reduction in energy use compared to 2017. This buildings themselves. Radisson ensures we operate LED lighting with keycard controlled or smart-lock improvement has been achieved by optimizing buildings with the lowest possible energy and carbon rooms. Of all the lights in our hotels, 59 percent are lighting, heating and cooling systems, focusing footprint by implementing Think Planet efficiency LEDs. on energy efficiency in daily operations, and principles in our standards. We work with property investing in new technologies. owners, architects, and developers and promote green THINK PLANET TOOLS building schemes such as LEED, BREEAM, and EDGE Think Planet tools are easy-to-implement energy saving THINK PLANET ELEMENTS to certify their performance. tools which provide a quick return on investment. For It is estimated that buildings, including hotels, waste example, motion and daylight sensors, thermal insulation 30 percent of the energy they consume. Through the ENERGY SAVING TECHNOLOGIES on heating and cooling pipes, energy efficient kitchen Think Planet elements. we aim to reduce our overall Radisson uses proven energy-saving measures such equipment, regular cleaning of the filters on air-handling energy consumption. as efficient boilers and we optimize the performance units, and other preventive maintenance. of our heating, ventilation, and air-conditioning A key goal of Radisson’s Think Planet energy targets (HVAC) systems. We make optimal use of our Building THINK PLANET HABITS is to reduce overall energy consumption significantly. Management System and adopt innovative technologies It’s essential to involve all Radisson employees in our There are several ways we do this. They include investing such as retrofitting wireless guestroom controls. Think Planet targets. We encourage employees to be in energy saving tools and technologies, eco-friendly energy conscientious by switching off appliances and building designs, and most importantly, engaging lights when not in use. We implement continuous and employees in our Think Planet targets. creative communications to ensure that employees develop good energy-use habits. 52 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 THINK PLANET CARBON FOOTPRINT & RENEWABLES CARBON FOOTPRINT CARBON NEUTRAL MEETINGS Radisson hotels actively strive to reduce Radisson’s Scope-1 and -2 greenhouse gas emissions For every meeting or event held at participating their carbon footprint in two ways: result primarily from energy consumption. Since Radisson Blu hotels, the carbon footprint of the meeting 1. by reducing energy consumption 2006, Radisson has calculated its carbon dioxide space and services is calculated and offset through and equivalent (CO2e) emissions. In 2018, the carbon projects in Guatemala, Malawi, and India. The service is 2. by increasing our use of renewable energy footprint per guest-night for the Group was 20.7 kg free for meeting clients and can be used to reduce their of CO2e, 18.3 percent lower than in 2011. Our total Scope 3 footprint. Radisson meeting clients have offset In 2018, 34 hotels in the Group operated on 100 percent Scope-1 and Scope-2 carbon footprint amounts 48,155 tons of CO2 since 2014, which is the equivalent renewable energy, including all hotels in the Nordics to 431,062 tons of CO2e. of almost 23,000 hectares of forest planted or taking and France. On average, 17.2 percent of the energy 16,000 cars driving 100 kms, off the road. used in the Group comes from renewable sources. The carbon offset happens in collaboration with HOTEL CARBON FOOTPRINT MEASUREMENTS First Climate, one of the largest carbon offsetting In 2012, the Hotel Carbon Measurement Initiative (HCMI) organizations in the world. All First Climate projects was launched by the international Travel Partnership are VCS or Gold Standard certified. (ITP) and World Travel & Tourism Council (WTTC), together with all major hospitality companies. RENEWABLE ENERGY Radisson actively strives to reduce our carbon Radisson was an active member of the HCMI footprint by increasingly making use of renewable working group creating the tool and has rolled energy sources. We believe that renewable energy has out the methodology to all managed and leased immense untapped potential. That’s why we partner hotels. HCMI is also the basis for the Carbon with innovative companies that strive to provide clean, reduction targets. renewable energy from alternative sources. Our goal is to actively help fight climate change by reducing demand for energy from CO2-intensive sources. 53 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 CLEAN ENERGY IN FRANKFURT FIRST COMMERCIAL PVT PROJECT IN CAPE TOWN’S Radisson Blu Hotel, Frankfurt is the first hotel in Europe BUSINESS DISTRICT with an industrial-size hydrogen fuel cell. The fuel cell The Park Inn by Radisson Cape Town Foreshore technology is the first of its type in a hotel and unique (South Africa) has installed the first large-scale hybrid in Europe at this scale. This innovative technology is photovoltaic and thermal (PVT) energy generator in the environmentally friendly, proven, and fully operational city center. The project has been realized with Solarus, in Frankfurt since the summer of 2017. producers of hybrid solar PowerCollectors™. The hotel has installed 30 PowerCollectors™ which produce both The project has been realized in partnership with electricity and hot water. They deliver three times more energy provider E.ON. CO2 emissions are reduced energy than solar panels with the same surface area. by about 600 tons a year, equivalent to 50,000 Radisson Blu Hotel, Frankfurt cars driving 100 kilometers. When it is fully operational the PVT system provides electricity and heat throughout the hotel. The complete The fuel cell generates electricity and heat in a noninstallation is expected to produce an average of 1,050 combustion process which is virtually free of pollutants. kilowatt hours (kWh) of energy per week. It can supply about 3 gigawatt hours (GWh) of electricity and 2 GWh of heat to the hotel, free of emissions. The installation has a positive impact on the city’s water consumption. That’s because the local power With more than 400 rooms and suites the Radisson Blu company uses hydropower to generate electricity Hotel, Frankfurt has important energy needs, which had at the rate of 1.45 liters of water per kWh. Thus the PVT previously been covered entirely by the power grid. system are generating almost 55,000 kWh of energy annually, which will also save 79,000 liters of water. This is particularly important in Cape Town which faced a major water crisis in early 2018. 54 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 Park Inn by Radisson, Cape Town THINK PLANET WATER STEWARDSHIP WATER STEWARDSHIP WATER CONSUMPTION AND WATER STRESS WATER INITIATIVES Water is a limited resource which poses one of the most In 2018, Radisson continued its efforts to reduce water Specific actions are designed to help our hotels vital sustainable development challenges of our time. consumption through the installation of technology, and further reduce their water consumption. Managing our use of water is good for the planet, good the education of both employees and guests. Across the for people, and good for business. entire Group, water consumption was reduced to 335 The action plan and toolkit include tools and liters per guest night in 2018, a reduction of 3.5 percent solutions for guest rooms, kitchens, pools, Radisson is focused on water stewardship – taking care compared to 2017. landscaping, and technical plants. We install waterof this precious resource to ensure water use is equitable saving technologies in areas where water consumption in each water basin. We do this by reusing grey water Around 36 percent of all the water consumed by the is high and engage our guests through initiatives such wherever possible, limiting the use of water through Group’s hotels occurs in water-stressed areas. These as our towel re-use program. technology improvements in our rooms and operations, are areas where water is scarce, of poor quality, or not and making maximum use of rainwater. easy to access. The Think Planet Water Initiative toolkit includes training movies. They are used to train housekeeping, laundry, UN CEO WATER MANDATE and kitchen employees in ways to safely reduce their Radisson signed the CEO Water Mandate in 2014, use of water. becoming the first hospitality company to do so. Since Radisson signed the mandate, the group has centered 206,000+ its actions on the Mandate’s six water stewardship commitments: 1. Direct Operations m3 water, or 824 Olympic swimming 2. Supply Chain & Watershed Management pools collected for reuse 3. Collective Action 11 4. Public Policy 5. Community Engagement % 6. Transparency of hotels have grey or black water recycling onsite 68,000 + m3 rain water collected for use 55 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 MEASURING OUR PERFORMANCE THE RADISSON BLU KIGALI (RWANDA) Members of the International Travel Partnership (ITP), RECYCLES BOTH RAINWATER AND GREY WATER including Radisson, have developed a methodology to The hotel installed a system which captures and measure and report water consumption in a consistent treats the wastewater from showers and toilets. manner across the hotel industry. Known as the Hotel After treatment, the grey water can be used for Water Measurement Initiative (HWMI), the methodology non-potable purposes such as flushing toilets enables any hotel to measure and report on the water and irrigation. footprint of an individual hotel stay, a meeting, or an event. Rainwater is collected and used in the same closed systems. It can also be mixed with grey water. HWMI is free and easy to use at Radisson, the tool allows us to measure and compare water use in the same way The system produces between 15 and 36 cubic as other hotel companies. For the industry, HWMI will meters of grey water per hour. Since the hotel generate common awareness about water usage in commissioned the plant in 2016, 86 percent of the tourism and travel. hotel’s total irrigation water needs has been met. Through funding provided by Radisson, the HWMI tool is available online through the website of the Green Key eco-label. 56 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 ACTION TO AVOID DAY ZERO WORLD WATER WEEK In early 2018, the city of Cape Town (South Africa) began World Water Week 2018 was an active time for Radisson. to prepare for an almost unthinkable event, the day The Radisson Blu Waterfront Hotel, Stockholm, hosted the city’s taps would run dry. Known as Day Zero, and meetings of the UN CEO Water Mandate during the initially forecasted for 12 April, the water crisis in Cape week. Not only were these meetings carbon neutral, Town represented the first time a major world city would they were also plastic-free. run out of drinking water for its population. During the Week, Radisson joined in the launch of the The response to the crisis from residents and businesses ITP the Destination Water Risk Index (DWRI). The DWRI saw water consumption fall by half in the first three overlays existing water risk and hotel industry databases months of the year. The six Radisson hotels in the area to produce cutting-edge intelligence. It will help hotel immediately took action through a range of innovative companies, and their properties, to better understand Radisson Blu Hotel Waterfront, Cape Town measures. They included reusing rainwater, recycling the financial implications of the local water risk. DWRI grey water, and reducing water use with technology such also provides evidence and a rationale to prioritize as aerated shower heads. Linen changes were limited, water conservation in capital allocation, development, and towel reuse was encouraged. The hotels also took and renovation decisions. The Index will be useful in every opportunity to educate and encourage their guests preventing water scarcity now and in the future. to save water. Nature played its part with rains bringing the capacity of the area’s dams up to 43 percent by June. Even though rain has reduced the chance that Cape Town will run out of water again soon, every Radisson hotel in the region is continuing its efforts to make maximum of use of every drop of water. Due to the city’s efforts in response to the crisis, the initial date of Day Zero moved back. 57 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 Radisson Blu Waterfront Hotel, Stockholm THINK PLANET WASTE REDUCTION Radisson’s strategy to A SECOND LIFE FOR STRAWS reduce waste involves Radisson has launched the #RefuseTheStraw campaign to cut the use of plastic straws in our hotels and food increasing the amount of and drink operations.By the end of 2018, 162 hotels had eliminated the use of plastic straws completely. material that is recycled, Hotels in the Middle East and Africa prevented tackling food waste, and the use of more than 6.5 million plastic straws. eliminating single-use ART INSTEAD OF WASTE When the Radisson Blu Hotel Kyiv-Podil (Ukraine) plastics wherever possible. implemented #RefuseTheStraw, the hotel team wondered what they could do with the remaining plastic straws in storage. They decided to donate With food waste accounting for more than a third them to a local artist who used the leftover straws of all food produced in the world, this is a key area to create a sculpture of a sea bird. of focus. At Radisson, we’re trying to prevent food waste by implementing portion control, correct food The choice of subject was very appropriate as sea birds storage, and avoiding wastage during preparation are badly affected by plastics in the world’s oceans. The or through spoilage. birds see the plastic as a food and consume it. A lot die of starvation as their stomachs fill with plastic. Many of We are also eliminating single-use plastics wherever these bird species are already on the verge of extinction. possible. We encourage all hotels to reduce plastic waste through innovative solutions including replacing plastic The beautiful sculpture has been placed in the lobby water bottles with sustainable solutions, promoting of the hotel as a symbol of freedom, hope, and the water filtration systems, and encouraging guests to need to protect vulnerable species. refuse straws in meetings & events. 58 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 RECYCLING SUCCESS WITH REDOPAPERS SOAP FOR HOPE IN LUSAKA TACKLING FOOD WASTE IN NORWAY What do you do with old stationery when your Soap for Hope™ is a program started by Diversey, a Radisson Hotels in Norway have signed an agreement business is being rebranded? The Radisson Blu Astrid major supplier to Radisson. The program aims to save with the Norwegian minister for climate and environment Hotel, Antwerp (Belgium) decided to Think Planet! lives by giving vulnerable communities access to soap. to reduce food waste. The imitative, developed in It also provides a livelihood to the local community collaboration with the Norwegian hotel, restaurant, and They collected old brochures, meeting planners, through the recycling and reprocessing soap. And it catering industry, will see food waste cut compared to envelopes, and notepads featuring the old logo. In helps hotels reduce waste by turning used soap into 2015 levels. Antwerp alone, 150 kg of material was collected. a valuable product. Two targets have been set. The first will see food waste Everything was delivered to Redopapers, a small In 2018, the Radisson Blu Hotel, Lusaka (Zambia) joined reduced by 20 percent by 2020, and by 50 percent by company in Antwerp which gives surplus paper a new the Soap for Hope™ campaign. The hotel is now one 2030. Establishments who have signed the agreement life. They used the material to make 100 handmade of 50 in the Group to be part of this unique program. are required to report every six months to the Norwegian notebooks and created 500 block notepads made The hotel’s campaign has taught local people how resource bank, Østfold Forskning. from brochures and envelopes glued together to produce soap which they can then sell to support with old housekeeping t-shirts. themselves and develop their lives. From the second quarter of 2019, waste measuring stations will be implemented in all Radisson hotels The sales team used these wonderful items as New Soap for Hope™ has been a remarkable success in in Norway to enable guest waste to be registered Year’s gifts. A great example of Think Planet in action! Zambia. It has promoted better hygiene in a region separately to production waste. They will also be able to where many children die each year from diseases identify what percentage of the waste could have been that can be prevented with simple handwashing. consumed, and what is pure waste. Organic waste will be reported separately by the company that collects it. To date our hotels in the Middle East and Africa have given more than 106 tons of soap a 2nd life. Radisson’s hotels in Norway are also taking proactive steps to reduce food waste. Smaller plates are being used to ensure smaller portions are served, while leftover food is utilized as part of the salad buffet where possible. 59 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 THINK PLANET PLASTIC-FREE MEETINGS & EVENTS SUPPLIER SERAX REDUCING PLASTIC PACKAGING Radisson set a goal to ban single-use plastics in Radisson is working closely with our suppliers to reduce meetings and events by 2020. At the same time, we the use of unnecessary plastic, particularly in packaging. want to raise awareness among our guests and inspire similar initiatives around the world. Serax, which supplies much of our operational equipment, has undertaken an audit of the products Our plastics strategy covers items such as water bottles, it supplies to Radisson. The results showed: candy wrappings, straws, food and drink packaging, and branded pens. • 45 percent of products used no plastic packaging • 22 percent used plastic to protect products from IMPACTS contamination during handling and storage • Changing brand standards allowed the group to implement solutions across the portfolio. For Serax identified that the remaining 33 percent of example, branded pens have been replaced by products should be studied to determine if the plastic pencils and giveaway sweets are now wrapped in packaging could be replaced. The company is now eco-friendly, wood-based foil wrappers. working with its suppliers to identify alternative proposals to reduce plastic use. • In 2018, 162 Radisson hotels were equipped with filtered water systems to reduce the use of plastic Over the coming year, Radisson will be working with bottles. Considering that an average hotel uses other our suppliers in a similar way to identify further 39,000 water bottles in meetings and events opportunities to reduce plastic use. annually, this reduces CO2 emissions by 3.2 tons annually per hotel. • Encouraging guests to refuse plastic straws has had a major effect. Radisson hotels in Africa, the Middle East, and Turkey are on target to achieve a 90 percent drop in plastic straw use, saving 6.5 million straws per year. 60 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 Radisson Blu Atlantic Hotel, Stavanger THINK PLANET ECO LABELS Making sure our hotels Hotels with the Green Key eco-label comply with around operate as sustainably 100 sustainability criteria covering energy management, waste control, water usage, and social responsibility. as they can is important Green Key is also helping hotels to do their part in achieving the UN Sustainable Development Goals. to Radisson, and to the environment. That’s why Among the latest Radisson hotels to be certified are the two very colorful and newly built Park Inn by Radisson we aim to have all our hotels Hotels in Riga (Latvia). The Park Inn by Radisson Riga Valdemara and the Park Inn by Radisson Residence Riga eco-labeled within a year of Barona have the lowest water consumption per minute them opening. And we’ve of any hotel in the Riga area. now reached a point where Another great addition to our list of eco-labeled hotels is the Radisson RED Cape Town (South Africa). Not only 305 hotels – 80 percent of has the hotel gained Green Key certification, it has also our EMEA portfolio, have become the first hotel in South Africa to receive a fivestar rating from Green Star for a new building. been certified by partners In July 2018, the Park Inn by Radisson Samsun (Turkey) such as Green Key. received its Green Key certificate just over a year after opening. The hotel team’s ongoing Responsible Business focus made certification easy. Green Key is our biggest partner and one of the largest hospitality certifiers in the world. The Green Key certification has already been granted to over 3,000 hotels and accommodation venues in 57 300+ countries. Radisson hotels are also certified by other leading national sustainability labels. They include Green Tourism in the UK, the Green Hospitality Award in Ireland – and the Green Leaf eco-label in Africa. hotels are eco-labeled 61 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 THINK PLANET GREEN BUILDINGS Radisson is committed to operating our buildings so RADISSON BLU ATLANTIC RECEIVES that they have the lowest possible energy and carbon BREEAM CERTIFICATION footprints. We achieve this by implementing Think Radisson’s first hotel in the Nordics, the Radisson Planet efficiency principles in our standards, and through Blu Atlantic Hotel, Stavanger has received BREEAM close cooperation with property owners, builders, and certification following a year-long renovation project. architects. We also use eco-modelling tools to create BREEAM certification recognizes the sustainable and a business case for green buildings, particularly in environmentally friendly nature of the renovation which emerging markets. has seen all parts of the hotel revamped. EDGE To achieve BREEAM certification, the design team had In June 2016, Radisson signed a unique cooperation to consider all parts of the building structure – both agreement with the International Finance Corporation internal and external. A key focus was reducing CO2 (IFC), a member of the World Bank, to use their EDGE emissions. To achieve this, new low-energy equipment eco-modelling tool and certification program. was installed which does not compromise guest expectations or their experience. EDGE encourages the construction of resource-efficient buildings by proving the business case for energy and The result is a state-of-the-art building which meets water saving measures, and the use of energy efficient the needs of guests, employees, owners and investors, building materials. The tool uses local parameters for and the environment. each country. As a result, EDGE tool makes it easy for operators such as Radisson to design green hotels in RADISSON RED GOES GREEN emerging markets. The Radisson RED Cape Town (South Africa) gained a five-star Green Star rating in 2018. That made it the Radisson uses the EDGE tool for an initial analysis first Radisson RED and the first ‘new build’ hotel in of all pipeline and major renovation projects in South Africa to achieve this remarkable feat. countries where it is applicable. We actively promote the EDGE certification of Radisson hotels with our The hotel’s sustainable building materials and efficient own stakeholders and business partners. operational processes impressed the Green Star panel in several areas. These included energy and water use, emissions, and the overall quality of the indoor environment. 62 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 Radisson RED, Cape Town THINK PLANET CONTRIBUTING TO SUSTAINABLE CITIES 360° SUSTAINABILITY IN BASEL ELECTRIC CAR CHARGING STATIONS The Radisson Blu Hotel, Basel in Switzerland hosted In 2017, Radisson joined Tesla’s destination charging a special 360° Responsible Business event for our network. Whenever guests are recharging their batteries partners. The event recognized that sustainability through a stay at one of our properties or a meal in in hospitality doesn’t come from hotels alone. It’s our restaurants, they can also charge their electric the responsibility of everyone involved, including car for free. the businesses and clients who help us achieve our environmental commitments. The collaboration with Tesla gives guests an easy charging solution and helps to ensure they will get The 360° Responsible Business event gave an to their next destination quickly and cleanly. It’s a win opportunity to congratulate everyone who has helped for our guests and a win for the environment. So, there’s meet our goals. The idea of Responsible Business ran no need to worry anymore about where to charge your throughout the evening which included a ‘plastic-free’ electric car! We have 328 electric car charging posts meal of local Swiss dishes. (including the Tesla network) spread across 104 of our hotels. The event was also a chance to focus on the next steps we must take to become even more sustainable. Many hotels are now going the extra step and exclusively Together with our partners and clients, we’re aiming to using taxi services which offer hybrid or electric vehicles. create a more sustainable hospitality industry for all. This service is already available from 66 of our hotels. 63 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 EARTH DAY INSPIRATION HOTELIERS PROTECT BIODIVERSITY Many of our hotels participated in the Earth Day Radisson’s hotels around the world are taking vital action campaign to #RefuseTheStraw. Some also decided to protect biodiversity in their local communities. During to go one step further and help guests to find new 2018, our properties: ways to approach sustainability. • Planted 12,500 trees • Implemented 33 beekeeping programs The teams from our Riga (Latvia) hotels collaborated with SeekTheSimple.com. This organization uses Bee populations are under pressure from increasing the principles of zero-waste and minimalism to look urbanisation and pollution. To encourage biodiversity for new and more sustainable ways to do everyday in their local areas, many Radisson hotels are now things. Together, the hotels and SeekTheSimple sponsoring beehives or ‘hosting’ them. After all, bees organized a zero-waste lecture for local companies are responsible for pollinating 76 percent of our food and organizations. This was followed by a masterclass crops and 80 percent of cut-flowers. They are critical to in making natural toothpaste. local biodiversity – and the honey they produce can be used directly in the hotel. We’re ensuring that they have In Belgium, the team at Radisson RED Brussels plenty of places to obtain food by planting green roofs, inspired their guests to tackle pollution and reduce vertical gardens, and herb gardens. Today: CO2 by distributing seeds. The seeds were planted in small cups and placed on a counter making it • 23 hotels have a green roof easy for guests to take one away. • 24 hotels have a vertical garden • 69 hotels have an onsite herb garden 64 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 THINK PLANET RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN SUPPLIER TYPE Radisson works with RISK MAPPING ANALYSIS Radisson uses several tools to increase supplier visibility Criteria in the supplier analysis includes environmental sustainability, human rights, health and safety, Mature Markets 52% sustainable suppliers to and to understand and control the business risk of our supply chain. As part of our supplier due diligence, community action, business ethics, and sustainable innovation in research and development. Emerging Markets 48% provide integrated projects Radisson’s Request for Information tendering process was and solutions for our hotels. reviewed and updated in 2018. The new process enables us to evaluate new and potential suppliers during the first In 2018, Radisson risk-mapped the top 50 percent of our corporate suppliers and selected regional suppliers phase of the tender process. This means the supplier’s which provide high risk products and services, in terms SPEND BREAKDOWN BY financial, environmental, and human resource status can of social and environmental impacts. SUPPLIER TYPE We are also committed to combating modern slavery in be assessed before a contract is signed. Another tool Corporate 3% the supply chain, and are encouraging our partners and the broader business community to take a stand against to enable us to understand supplier performance was The results of the risk mapping exercise allow Radisson Regional 46% human trafficking and for human rights. created in 2017. Known as the Supplier Risk Mapping to have a dialogue on responsible supply chain Local 51% Analysis, the tool is used to assess existing suppliers. management with our suppliers. It can be used for SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT supplier assessment, evaluation, and will be a discussion point in yearly meetings with suppliers. The mapping tool SUPPLIER TYPE BREAKDOWN The products, services, and activities of our suppliers may impact the Radisson’s reputation and affect is integrated into the corporate procurement IT system, Corporate 1% our level of trust with other stakeholders. Radisson allowing a more automated approach to assess suppliers. Regional 6% prefers to work with suppliers who demonstrate their RADISSON SUPPLIER RISK MAPPING MODEL Local 93% environmental, social, and ethical responsibility. Our Low High B A Supplier Code of Conduct outlines the minimum standards that they are expected to achieve. Supplier with low-level risk rating Supplier with high-level risk product or service with active rating product or service The Supplier Code of Conduct includes obligations for involvement in implementation of with active involvement risk management in implementation of risk Supplier Risk Management Practices suppliers and the broader business community to take a stand against human trafficking and modern slavery. C D The Supplier Code of Business Conduct supplements the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and is signed by Supplier with low-level risk rating Supplier with high risk rating all suppliers at Group and Area levels. It also becomes product or service with low-level product or service with low-level (supplier questionnaire) integrated in the supplier agreement. In 2017 the involvement in implementation of involvement of risk management Supplier Code of Conduct was rolled out globally for all risk management Radisson suppliers. Low High Risk Rating (risk rating tool) 65 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 THINK PLANET ECOVADIS SILVER AWARD KEY SUPPLIERS EcoVadis has awarded Radisson a Silver supplier rating Suppliers such as Sysco Guest Supply, International Hotel for our sustainable practices. EcoVadis evaluates more Supply, Brita, and Diversey provide the latest sustainable than 20,000 companies annually on their environmental, products to Radisson. At the same time, they focus on human rights, and ethical performance. It aims to sustainable production methods and operations. improve the environmental and social practices of companies by leveraging the influence of global supply BIOVATE FOR RADISSON BLU AND RADISSON RED chains. Radisson Blu and Radisson RED hotels have partnered with Big Impact to introduce bio-based wallpapers Each company is assessed through a questionnaire into their properties. Known as Walltex Biovate, the which is customized to the size of the business, its wallcovering is made from modified starch-based industry sector, and countries of operation. The rating polymers recovered from the potato industry. This covers four areas: fair business ethics, the environment, creates a healthy in-room climate for hotel guests as sustainable procurement, and labor practices and Biovate emits no volatile organic compounds (VOCs). human rights. The product is 100% PVC-free, and contains no The overall EcoVadis score reflects the quality of the phthalates, chlorides, or heavy metals. company’s corporate social responsibility management system. The Silver award places Radisson amongst the The designs of the wallcoverings are customized by top 30% of EcoVadis performers. Big Impact to suit each brand and printed on-demand. 66 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 Radisson RED, Brussles APPENDIX 67 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 APPENDIX 305 ECO-LABELED HOTELS AUSTRIA DENMARK FINLAND GERMANY • Park Inn by Radisson Uno City, Vienna • Radisson Blu Limfjord Hotel, Aalborg • Radisson Blu Seaside Hotel, Helsinki • Radisson Blu Hotel, Erfurt • Radisson Blu Park Royal Palace Hotel, Vienna • Radisson Blu Scandinavia Hotel, Aarhus • Radisson Blu Royal Hotel, Helsinki • Radisson Blu Hotel, Leipzig • Park Inn by Radisson Linz • Park Inn by Radisson Copenhagen Airport • Radisson Blu Aleksanteri Hotel, Helsinki • Radisson Blu Mannheim • Radisson Blu Style Hotel, Vienna • Radisson Blu Scandinavia Hotel, Copenhagen • Radisson Blu Plaza Hotel, Helsinki • Radisson Blu Hotel, Berlin • Radisson Collection Royal Copenhagen, Denmark • Radisson Blu Hotel, Espoo • Radisson Blu Hotel, Bremen BAHRAIN • Radisson Blu H.C. Andersen Hotel, Odense • Radisson Blu Hotel, Oulu • Radisson Blu Hotel, Cottbus • The Diplomat Radisson Blu Hotel Residence & Spa, • Radisson Blu Papirfabrikken Hotel, Silkeborg • Radisson Blu Marina Palace Hotel, Turku • Park Inn by Radisson Cologne City-West Manama • Radisson Blu Grand Hotel Tammer, Tampere • Radisson Blu Hotel, Cologne EGYPT • Park Inn by Radisson Dresden BELGIUM • Radisson Blu Hotel, Alexandria FRANCE • Radisson Blu Park Hotel & Conference Centre, Dresden • Park Inn by Radisson, Antwerp • Radisson Blu Hotel, Cairo Heliopolis • Radisson Blu Resort & Spa, Ajaccio Bay Radebeul • Radisson Blu Astrid Hotel, Antwerp • Radisson Blu Resort, El Quseir • Radisson Blu Hotel, Biarritz • Radisson Blu Hotel, Dortmund • Park Inn by Radisson Brussels Midi • Radisson Blu 1835 Hotel & Thalasso, Cannes • Radisson Blu Scandinavia Hotel, Düsseldorf • Park Inn by Radisson Brussels Airport ESTONIA • Radisson Blu Resort, Arc 1950 • Radisson Blu Media Harbour Hotel, Düsseldorf • Radisson Blu Royal Hotel, Brussels • Park Inn by Radisson Meriton Conference & Spa Hotel • Park Inn by Radisson Lille Grand Stade • Park Inn by Radisson Papenburg • Radisson RED Hotel, Brussels Tallinn • Radisson Blu Hotel, Lyon • Radisson Blu Hotel, Karlsruhe • Park Inn by Radisson Liege Airport • Park Inn by Radisson Central Tallinn • Radisson Blu Hotel, Marseille Vieux Port • Park Inn by Radisson Frankfurt Airport • Radisson Blu Palace Hotel, Spa • Radisson Blu Sky Hotel, Tallinn • Park Inn by Radisson Nice Airport • Radisson Blu Hotel, Frankfurt • Radisson Blu Balmoral Hotel, Spa • Radisson Blu Hotel Olumpia, Tallinn • Radisson Blu Hotel, Nice • Radisson Blu Hotel, Hannover • Park Inn by Radisson Hasselt • Radisson Blu Hotel, Nantes • Radisson Blu Hotel, Hamburg • Radisson Blu Hotel, Hasselt ETHIOPIA • Radisson Blu Hotel, Paris-Boulogne • Radisson Blu Hotel, Hamburg Airport • Park Inn by Radisson Leuven • Radisson Blu Hotel, Addis Ababa • Radisson Blu Hotel at Disneyland® Resort Paris • Park Inn by Radisson Lübeck • Radisson Blu Hotel, Champs Elysees, Paris • Radisson Blu Senator Hotel, Lübeck CROATIA • Radisson Blu Hotel, Toulouse Airport • Park Inn by Radisson Munich Frankfurter Ring • Radisson Blu Resort Split • Park Inn by Radisson Nürnberg GEORGIA • Park Inn by Radisson Neumarkt CZECH REPUBLIC • Radisson Blu Hotel, Batumi • Park Inn by Radisson Göttingen • Park Inn by Radisson Ostrava • Radisson Blu Iveria Hotel, Tblisi • Radisson Blu Hotel, Rostock • Park Inn Hotel Prague • Park Inn by Radisson Stuttgart • Radisson Blu Schwarzer Bock Hotel, Wiesbaden • Radisson Blu Fürst Leopold Hotel, Dessau • Park Inn by Radisson Berlin Alexanderplatz 68 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 APPENDIX 305 ECO-LABELED HOTELS GREECE KENYA MOLDOVA • Radisson Blu Royal Garden Hotel, Trondheim • Radisson Blu Park Hotel, Athens • Park Inn by Radisson Nairobi Westlands • Radisson Blu Hotel Chisinau, Moldova • Radisson Blu Hotel, Trondheim Airport • Radisson Blu Hotel, Nairobi Upper Hill • Radisson Blu Trysil Mountain Resort HUNGARY MOROCCO • Radisson Blu Resort, Trysil • Park Inn by Radisson Budapest KUWAIT • Radisson Blu Hotel, Marrakech Carré Eden • Radisson Blu Béke Hotel, Budapest • Radisson Blu Hotel, Kuwait OMAN • Park Inn by Radisson Sarvar Resort & Spa • Symphony Style Hotel Kuwait MOZAMBIQUE • Park Inn by Radisson Hotel & Residence Duqm • Park Inn by Radisson Hotel & Spa Zalakaros • Radisson Blu Hotel, Maputo • Park Inn by Radisson Muscat LATVIA • Hormuz Grand, Quorvus Collection ICELAND • Park Inn by Radisson Residence Riga Barona NETHERLANDS • Radisson Blu Hotel, Muscat • Radisson Blu Saga Hotel, Reykjavik • Park Inn by Radisson Riga Valdemara • Park Inn by Radisson Amsterdam City West • Radisson Blu Hotel, Sohar • Radisson Blu 1919 Hotel, Reykjavik • Radisson Blu Elizabete Hotel, Riga • Park Inn by Radisson, Amsterdam Airport Schiphol • Radisson Blu Daugava Hotel, Riga • Radisson Blu Hotel, Amsterdam POLAND IRELAND • Radisson Blu Hotel Latvija, Riga • Radisson Blu Palace Hotel, Noordwijk-aan-Zee • Radisson Blu Hotel, Gdansk • Radisson Blu St. Helen’s Hotel, Dublin • Radisson Blu Ridzene Hotel, Riga • Radisson Blu Hotel, Amsterdam Airport, Schiphol • Park Inn by Radisson Krakow • Radisson Blu Hotel, Dublin Airport • Radisson Blu Hotel, Krakow • Radisson Blu Hotel, Athlone LEBANON NIGERIA • Radisson Blu Hotel, Szczecin • Radisson Blu Hotel, Limerick • Radisson Blu Martinez Hotel, Beirut • Radisson Blu Anchorage Hotel, Lagos V.I. • Radisson Collection Warsaw • Radisson Blu Hotel, Letterkenny • Radisson Blu Sobieski Hotel, Warsaw • Radisson Blu Hotel & Spa, Cork LITHUANIA NORWAY • Radisson Blu Hotel, Wroclaw • Park Inn by Radisson Shannon Airport • Radisson Blu Hotel, Klaipeda • Radisson Blu Royal Hotel, Bergen • Radisson Blu Resort, Świnoujście • Radisson Blu Hotel & Spa, Sligo • Park Inn by Radisson Kaunas • Radisson Blu Hotel, Bodø • Radisson Blu Astorija Hotel, Vilnius • Radisson Blu Caledonien Hotel, Kristiansand QATAR ITALY • Radisson Blu Hotel Lietuva, Vilnius • Park Inn by Radisson Oslo • Radisson Blu Hotel, Doha • Radisson Blu Hotel, Milan • Park Inn by Radisson Oslo Airport LUXEMBOURG • Radisson Blu Scandinavia Hotel, Oslo ROMANIA KAZAKHSTAN • Park Inn by Radisson Luxembourg City • Radisson Blu Hotel, Alna-Oslo • Park Inn by Radisson Hotel & Residences, Bucharest • Park Inn by Radisson Astana • Radisson Blu Plaza Hotel, Oslo • Radisson Blu Hotel, Bucharest • Radisson Hotel, Astana MALTA • Radisson Blu Park Hotel, Fornebu, Oslo • Radisson Blu Resort Malta, St. Julian’s • Radisson Blu Airport Hotel, Oslo Gardemoen • Radisson Blu Resort & Spa, Malta Golden Sands • Radisson Blu Hotel Nydalen, Oslo • Radisson Blu Atlantic Hotel, Stavanger • Radisson Blu Royal Hotel, Stavanger • Radisson Blu Hotel, Tromsø 69 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 APPENDIX 305 ECO-LABELED HOTELS RUSSIA SAUDI ARABIA SPAIN TURKEY • Park Inn by Radisson Sochi City Centre • Park Inn by Radisson Al Khobar • Radisson Blu Resort & Spa, Gran Canaria Mogan • Park Inn by Radisson, Ankara Cankaya • Park Inn by Radisson Rosa Khutor • Radisson Blu Residence Dhahran • Radisson Blu Resort, Gran Canaria • Radisson Blu Hotel, Ankara • Radisson Collection Paradise Resort & Spa Sochi, Russia • Radisson Blu Hotel, Dhahran • Radisson Blu Hotel, Madrid Prado • Radisson Blu Hotel, Diyarbakir • Radisson Blu Resort & Congress Centre, Sochi • Radisson Blu Resort Jizan • Park Inn by Radisson Istanbul Atasehir • Radisson Blu Hotel, Rosa Khutor • Radisson Blu Hotel and Residence, Jeddah Al Salamah SWEDEN • Park Inn by Radisson, Istanbul Asia Kavacik • Park Inn by Radisson Astrakhan • Radisson Blu Hotel, Jeddah • Park Inn by Radisson Uppsala • Park Inn by Radisson Istanbul Ataturk Airport • Radisson Blu Hotel, Chelyabinsk • Radisson Blu Royal Suite Hotel, Jeddah • Radisson Blu Hotel, Uppsala • Radisson Blu Hotel, Istanbul Ataköy • Park Inn by Radisson Yaroslavl • Radisson Blu Plaza Hotel, Jeddah • Radisson Blu Scandinavia Hotel, Göteborg • Radisson Blu Hotel, Istanbul Asia • Radisson Hotel, Kaliningrad • Park Inn By Radisson Hotel, Dammam • Radisson Blu Riverside Hotel, Gothenburg • Radisson Blu Hotel, Istanbul Pera • Park Inn by Radisson Pribalitiyskaya, St. Petersburg • Radisson Blu Hotel, Riyadh • Radisson Blu Metropol Hotel, Helsingborg • Radisson Blu Bosphorus Hotel, Istanbul • Park Inn by Radisson Pulkovskaya, St. Petersburg • Radisson Blu Hotel, Yanbu • Park Inn by Radisson Malmö • Radisson Blu Residence, Istanbul Batışehir • Park Inn by Radisson Nevsky, St. Petersburg • Radisson Blu Hotel, Malmö • Radisson Blu Conference & Airport Hotel, Istanbul • Park Inn by Radisson Pulkovo Airport St. Petersburg SENEGAL • Park Inn by Radisson Solna • Radisson Blu Hotel, Istanbul Sisli • Radisson Royal Hotel, St. Petersburg • Radisson Blu Hotel, Dakar Sea Plaza • Park Inn by Radisson Stockholm Hammarby Sjöstad • Radisson Blu Hotel, Istanbul Tuzla • Radisson Sonya Hotel, St. Petersburg • Radisson Blu Royal Park Hotel, Stockholm • Park Inn by Radisson Izmir • Park Inn by Radisson Poliarnie Zory, Murmansk SERBIA • Radisson Collection Strand Stockholm • Radisson Blu Resort & Spa, Cesme • Park Inn by Radisson Izmailovo • Old Mill Hotel, Belgrade, Serbia • Radisson Blu Arlandia Hotel, Stockholm-Arlanda • Park Inn by Radisson Samsun • Radisson Collection Ukraina Moscow • Radisson Blu SkyCity Hotel, Stockholm-Arlanda • Radisson Blu Hotel Kayseri • Radisson Resort, Zavidovo SIERRA LEONE • Radisson Blu Royal Viking Hotel, Stockholm • Park Inn by Radisson Novokuznetsk • Radisson Blu Mammy Yoko Hotel, Freetown • Radisson Blu Waterfront Hotel, Stockholm UKRAINE • Park Inn by Radisson Veliky Novgorod • Radisson Blu Hotel, Lund • Park Inn by Radisson Troyitska Kyiv • Park Inn by Radisson Novosibirsk SLOVAKIA • Radisson Blu Hotel, Kiev • Radisson Blu Hotel, Rostov-on-Don • Park Inn by Radisson Danube, Bratislava Hotel SWITZERLAND • Radisson Blu Hotel, Kyiv Podil • Park Inn by Radisson Sheremetyevo Airport, Moscow • Radisson Blu Hotel, Basel • Radisson Blu Resort, Bukovel • Radisson Blu Sheremetyevo Airport Hotel, Moscow SOUTH AFRICA • Radisson Blu Hotel, St. Gallen • Park Inn by Radisson Ekaterinburg • Radisson RED Hotel V&A Waterfront, Cape Town • Radisson Blu Hotel, Lucerne • Park Inn by Radisson Volgograd II • Park Inn by Radisson Cape Town Foreshore • Park Inn by Radisson Zurich Airport • Park Inn by Radisson Cape Town Newlands • Radisson Blu Hotel, Zurich Airport • Radisson Blu Hotel Waterfront, Cape Town • Park Inn by Radisson Sandton TUNISIA • Radisson Blu Gautrain Hotel, Sandton Johannesburg • Radisson Blu Palace Resort & Thalasso, Djerba • Radisson Blu Hotel, Sandton Johannesburg • Radisson Blu Resorts & Thalasso, Hammamet • Radisson Blu Hotel, Port Elizabeth 70 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 APPENDIX 305 ECO-LABELED HOTELS UNITED ARAB EMIRATES • Park Inn by Radisson Peterborough • Park Inn by Radisson Abu Dhabi, Yas Island • Park Inn by Radisson Telford • Radisson Blu Hotel, Abu Dhabi Yas Island • Radisson Blu Hotel, Belfast • Radisson Blu Hotel, Dubai Deira Creek • Radisson Blu Hotel, Birmingham • Radisson Blu Hotel, Dubai Media City • Radisson Blu Hotel, Cardiff • Radisson Blu Residence, Dubai Marina • Radisson Blu Hotel, Glasgow • Radisson Blu Resort, Fujairah • Radisson Blu Hotel, Leeds • Radisson Blu Resort, Sharjah • Radisson Blu Hotel, Liverpool • Radisson Blu Hotel Manchester Airport UNITED KINGDOM • Radisson Blu Hotel, Durham • Park Inn by Radisson Cardiff City Centre • Park Inn by Radisson Bedford ZAMBIA • Park Inn by Radisson Hotel & Conference Centre • Radisson Blu Hotel, Lusaka London Heathrow • Park Inn by Radisson Manchester City Centre • Park Inn by Radisson Northampton • Radisson Blu Hotel, Bristol • Radisson Blu Hotel, Edinburgh • Radisson Collection Royal Mile Edinburgh • Radisson Blu Hotel, East Midlands Airport • Radisson Blu Waterfront Hotel, Jersey • Radisson Blu Portman Hotel, London • Radisson Blu Hotel London Stansted Airport, Stansted • Park Inn by Radisson Aberdeen • Park Inn by Radisson Belfast • Park Inn by Radisson Birmingham West • Park Inn by Radisson Glasgow City Centre • Park Inn by Radisson Nottingham • Park Inn by Radisson York • Park Inn by Radisson Palace, Southend-on-Sea • Park Inn by Radisson Harlow 71 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 Radisson Hotel, Lagos Ikeja APPENDIX SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Radisson is conscious that our Responsible Business targets and actions need to contribute to the UN Sustainable Development Goals. No poverty Gender equality Industry, innovation Climate action Peace, justice and strong End poverty in all its forms everywhere Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls and infrastructure Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts institutions Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable industrialization and foster innovation sustainable development, provide access to THINK PLANET PRINCIPLES HUMAN RIGHTS justice for all and build effective, accountable DIVERSITY & INCLUSION GREEN BUILDINGS CARBON FOOTPRINT & COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT and inclusive institutions at all levels THINK PLANET RENEWABLES BUSINESS ETHICS COMPLIANCE Zero hunger Clean water and sanitation Reduced inequalities Life below water HUMAN RIGHTS End hunger, achieve food security and Ensure availability and sustainable management of Reduce inequality within and among countries Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas SAFETY & SECURITY improved nutrition, and promote sustainable water and sanitation for all and marine resources for sustainable development agriculture THINK COMMUNITY WATER STEWARDSHIP COMMUNITY ACTION MONTH FOOD.SHELTER.FUTURE WASH DIVERSITY & INCLUSION WATER STEWARDSHIP Partnerships for the goals Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development Good health and well-being Affordable and clean energy Sustainable cities and communities Life on land MEMBERSHIPS INCLUDING ITP, UN Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, Protect, restore and promote sustainable use GLOBAL COMPACT & for all at all ages and modern energy for all resilient and sustainable of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, halt and reverse UN CEO WATER MANDATE land degradation and halt biodiversity loss ECO-LABELLING SAFETY AND SECURITY DIVERSITY & INCLUSION THINK PLANET ENERGY TRIC=S FORMULA SOAP FOR HOPE™ CARBON FOOTPRINT & RENEWABLES Quality education Decent work and economic growth Responsible consumption and Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment production opportunities for all Ensure sustainable consumption and production and decent work for all patterns PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT & RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN EMPLOYMENT & EMPLOYABILITY SOAP FOR HOPE™ TALENT MANAGEMENT PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT & TALENT MANAGEMENT 72 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 APPENDIX GLOBAL COMPACT COMPLIANCE PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT RADISSON SYSTEMS AND PROCESSES HUMAN RIGHTS Principles 1: • Living & Leading Responsible Business Training • Supplier Code of Conduct and agreements Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. • Employee Handbook • Human Rights Policy • Code of Business Ethics • Supplier Code of Conduct and agreements Principle 2: • www.ethics.radissonhotels.com • Human Rights Policy Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. • Policy against the Facilitation of Prostitution • Combating modern slavery toolkit LABOR • Human Resources Guidelines • Supplier Code of Conduct Principle 3: • Employee Handbook • Employment Principles Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. • European Workers Councils • Code of Business Conduct and Ethics • Human Rights Policy Principle 4: • Supplier Code of Conduct and agreements • Combating modern slavery toolkit Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. • Employment Principles Principle 5: • Code of Business Conduct and Ethics • Employment Principles Businesses should support the effective abolition of child labor. • Supplier Code of Conduct and agreements • Human Rights Policy • Human Resources Guidelines • Policy on Sexual Harassment and Illicit Activities • Employee Handbook • Social Networking Policy Principle 6: • Living & Leading Responsible Business training • Supplier Code of Conduct Businesses should support the elimination of discrimination in respect to employment and occupation. • Policy on Recruitment and Selection • Employment Principles • Transfer Policy • Human Rights Policy ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: • Responsible Business & Environment Policy • Environmental reporting and targets Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. • Radisson Technical Standards • Responsible Business & Environment Policy • Living & Leading Responsible Business training Principle 8: • Radisson Technical Standards • Supplier Code of Conduct Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. • Think Planet tools Principle 9: • Radisson Technical Standards • Carbon Neutral Meetings Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. • Think Planet tools • Eco-labeled hotels ANTI CORRUPTION • Global Information Security Policy • Anti-Fraud Policy Principle 10: • Code of Business Conduct and Ethics • Internal Audit Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. • Anti-bribery training • Supplier Code of Conduct and agreements 73 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 APPENDIX GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURES TABLE DISCLOSURE DISCLOSURE PAGE REASON FOR DISCLOSURE DISCLOSURE PAGE REASON FOR DISCLOSURE DISCLOSURE PAGE REASON FOR NUMBER TITLE NUMBER OMISION NUMBER TITLE NUMBER OMISION NUMBER TITLE NUMBER OMISION GENERAL DISCLOSURES REPORTING PRACTICE TOPIC SPECIFIC GRI STANDARD ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 3 PROCUREMENT PRACTICES 102-1 Name of the organization 4 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 65-66 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 4 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 3 103-2 The management approach and its components 65-66 102-3 Location of headquarters 4 12 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 65-66 102-4 Location of operations 4 102-47 List of material topics 11-12 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 65-66 102-5 Ownership and legal form 4 102-48 Restatements of information 13-14 ANTI-CORRUPTION 102-6 Markets served 4 102-49 Changes in reporting 3 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 12 102-7 Scale of the organization 4 102-50 Reporting period 3 103-2 The management approach and its components 13-14 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 26 102-51 Date of most recent report 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 13-14 102-9 Supply chain 65 102-52 Reporting cycle 3 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 37 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 79 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 37 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 3 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 3 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 37 102-12 External initiatives 15 102-55 GRI content index 74-75 ENERGY 102-13 Membership of associations 15 102-56 External assurance 79 no external 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 12 assurance 103-2 The management approach and its components 13-14 STRATEGY 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 6-8 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 52 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 51 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 28-31 302-3 Energy intensity 51 36-37 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 51 GOVERNANCE 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 51 102-18 Governance structure 13-14 WATER STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 12 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 11 103-2 The management approach and its components 13-14 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 26 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 55 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 11 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 55 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 11 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 55 13-14 303-3 Water recycled and reused 55 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 12 74 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 APPENDIX GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURES TABLE DISCLOSURE DISCLOSURE PAGE REASON FOR DISCLOSURE DISCLOSURE PAGE REASON FOR DISCLOSURE DISCLOSURE PAGE REASON FOR NUMBER TITLE NUMBER OMISION NUMBER TITLE NUMBER OMISION NUMBER TITLE NUMBER OMISION BIODIVERSITY TRAINING AND EDUCATION LOCAL COMMUNITIES 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 12 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 12 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 12 103-2 The management approach and its components 13-14 103-2 The management approach and its components 13-14 103-2 The management approach and its components 39 48 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 63-64 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 28-31 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 39 48 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity 63-64 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 28-31 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and 39 48 development programs 304-3 Habitats protected or restored 63-64 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 28-31 SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT EMISSIONS DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 12 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 12 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 12 103-2 The management approach and its components 65-66 103-2 The management approach and its components 13-14 103-2 The management approach and its components 13-14 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 65-66 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 53-54 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 32-35 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 65-66 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 53-54 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 32-35 PUBLIC POLICY 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 53-54 FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 12 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 53-54 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 12 103-2 The management approach and its components 36-37 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 10 103-2 The management approach and its components 26-27 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 36-37 16 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 26-27 415-1 Political contributions 36-37 53-54 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and 26-27 collective bargaining may be at risk CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE CHILD LABOR 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 12 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 12 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 12 103-2 The management approach and its components 23-25 103-2 The management approach and its components 13-14 103-2 The management approach and its components 76-78 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 23-25 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 13-14 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 76-78 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service 23-25 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 13-14 categories 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor 76-78 SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 65-66 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 12 103-2 The management approach and its components 65-66 103-2 The management approach and its components 76-78 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 65-66 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 76-78 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 65-66 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact 76-78 EMPLOYMENT assessments 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 12 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 20-22 103-2 The management approach and its components 13-14 412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights 76-78 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 26-27 clauses or that underwent human rights screening 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 26-27 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to 28-31 temporary or part-time employees 75 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 APPENDIX RADISSON HOSPITALITY AB SLAVERY AND HUMAN TRAFFICKING STATEMENT 2018 ABOUT RADISSON HOSPITALITY AB rights within its sphere of influence. This commitment • No employee is required to pay any fees in who works for us, and every one of our companies. It is Radisson Hospitality AB [formerly Rezidor Hotel is aligned with, and supported by, our Code of Business exchange for work distributed to all employees. All employees are trained in Group AB] is a publicly listed company on the Nasdaq Ethics and the principles of the United Nations Global • No excessive deductions are made from any the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, its implications, Stockholm (Sweden). Radisson Hospitality is one of the Compact. The Group has been a signatory to the Global employee’s wages. and reporting processes. The training is mandatory for largest hotel companies in Europe, the Middle East & Compact since 2009. all employees and includes a reference to the Radisson’s Africa (EMEA). These expectations are applied to the practices of the ethics platform. In 2018, the Code of Business Conduct Since 2010, Radisson has been recognized as one of labor agencies and outsourced labor suppliers that and Ethics was updated to conform with the EU’s GDPR Radisson Hospitality AB is a member of Radisson, the the World’s Most Ethical Companies by the Ethisphere Radisson utilizes. regulations and other policies. eleventh largest hotel group in the world. Through a Institute, an independent think-tank and center of master franchise agreement with Radisson Hospitality, research which promotes best practices in corporate OUR BUSINESS AND SUPPLY CHAIN SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT Inc. USA – Radisson Hospitality AB operates and ethics and governance. TEAM INVOLVEMENT IN ‘COMBATTING MODERN SLAVERY’ Our Supplier Code of Conduct includes obligations develops hotel brands across EMEA including: Radisson INITIATIVE for suppliers and the broader business community. Collection, Radisson Blu, Radisson, Radisson RED, and Our aim is to bring positive benefits to the communities Various teams across the organization, and from It encourages them to take a stand against human Park Inn by Radisson. Since 2016, Radisson Hospitality in which we operate through our high quality services, different countries, are involved in Radisson’s antitrafficking and modern slavery. The Supplier Code of AB has also owned 49 percent of prizeotel. Radisson economic growth and employment opportunities, slavery and anti-trafficking initiatives. Strategy and Conduct supplements the Code of Business Conduct and Hospitality also operates the Radisson Rewards loyalty environmental protection initiatives, and community follow-up is coordinated by the corporate Responsible Ethics. It’s principles represent the minimum standards program for frequent hotel guests. involvement. Our commitment to ethical excellence is Business department. This team works closely with the that Radisson expects its suppliers to achieve. The our heartbeat, and we are recognized as a trusted global Procurement team and Human Resources, both centrally Supplier Code is signed by all suppliers at the corporate Radisson Hospitality AB operates a portfolio of 486 leader and a responsible business. and in the different geographical areas where we operate. and regional levels and becomes a part of the supplier hotels with more than 107,136 rooms (in operation or agreement. In 2018, the Supplier Code of Conduct under development) in 78 countries across EMEA. COMMITMENT TO COMBAT MODERN SLAVERY STRUCTURE OF OUR SUPPLY CHAIN was updated in line with GDPR and other policies. Radisson Hospitality AB and its brands employ over Radisson is committed to combatting modern slavery, Radisson’s supply chain has three types of supplier The updated Supplier Code was communicated to all 45,000 team members. We have an industry-leading educating employees on the issue, and encouraging our categories: local, regional, and corporate. Corporate Radisson suppliers. Responsible Business Program and have been named partners and the broader business community to take and regional suppliers are managed by our corporate one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies by the US a stand against human trafficking. We operate to high procurement team, via centralized and regional Local hotel suppliers are required to follow the Radisson think-tank Ethisphere for nine years. standards and advocate socially and environmentally procurement agreements. These suppliers provide a Supplier Code of Conduct. However, we do not actively sustainable business practices. Our aim is to combat and variety of products and services including operational register which suppliers have signed at the local level. Radisson Hospitality AB (Radisson) is headquartered in eliminate any form of modern slavery and to operate our supplies and equipment, furniture, fixtures and Brussels, Belgium. business without slavery, exploiting children, or forced, equipment, food, drinks, amenities, linen, and cleaning HUMAN RIGHTS bonded, or compulsory labor. supplies. Local suppliers are managed at the hotel level. Radisson has grouped key human rights and GOVERNANCE AND RECOGNITION employment principles into two documents. Our Human Radisson acknowledges and respects the principles Radisson strives to ensure that: GUIDING DOCUMENTS: PRINCIPLES AND POLICIES Rights Policy covers the Group’s engagement on issues contained in the United Nations Declaration of Human • Every employee has a worker contract CODE OF BUSINESS CONDUCT AND ETHICS such as ethical business conduct, protection of children’s Rights. They are consistent with Radisson’s core values • No employee is forced to work Radisson’s internal Code of Conduct and Business Ethics rights, combating human trafficking, and protection and our commitment to be a force for good. Radisson • No employee is forced to handover governmentcontains rules and guidelines and serves as a reminder to all of employee rights. Our Employment Principles cover endeavors to conduct its business operations in a issued identification, passports, work permits, or Radisson employees of our policies and commitment to do the Group’s promises to its employees such as nonmanner that seeks to promote and enhance human bank cards to a third party what is right and ethical. The Code applies to every person discrimination, freedom of association, and development 76 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 APPENDIX RADISSON HOSPITALITY AB SLAVERY AND HUMAN TRAFFICKING STATEMENT 2018 of talent from within. Both policies are made available from 20.7 percent in 2017) of hotel employees are The SAQ is designed to gather information on risks of questionnaire in 2018 to align it with the updated to all hotels and employees and complement the Code outsourced. We aim to apply responsible practices when forced labor and human trafficking that hotels may be Supplier Code of Conduct. The questionnaire includes of Business Conduct and Ethics. They help to clarify the recruiting outsourced employees. To mitigate the risk of facing, and ultimately to help hotels and its third-party a rating tool to identify the supplier’s level of risk principles we live and work by in our hotels. modern slavery and human trafficking, Radisson uses a intermediaries to detect, remediate, and mitigate risks of management and mitigation. Our standard supplier responsible recruitment framework for our hotels. The labor abuse. contract terms were also updated in 2018. They now RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Group developed a Responsible Recruitment toolkit to include a clause requesting that suppliers complete Radisson’s ambitious and award-winning Responsible support our recruitment practices. The toolkit provides SUPPLIER DUE DILIGENCE the responsible supplier questionnaire and provide Business program dates to 2001. The Responsible guidance on how to combat modern slavery and details The products, services, and activities of our suppliers reasonable evidence of compliance with Radisson’s Business policy covers compliance with all applicable of how to engage with employees, how to increase may impact Radisson’s reputation, affecting our level of Supplier Code of Conduct on request. In addition, the legislation regarding labor, health and safety, human awareness of modern slavery amongst employees, trust with other stakeholders. It is imperative that the Request for Information tendering process was reviewed rights, and the environment. It requires us to operate how to approach a recruitment agency, and what due Group’s suppliers follow the Supplier Code of Conduct and updated, allowing the Group to evaluate new and without slavery, exploitation of people, or forced, diligence to conduct. and request the same from their supply chain, including potential suppliers during the first phase of the tender bonded, or compulsory labor. The policy strives to follow third-party labor agencies. The Supplier Code of process. This allows Radisson to evaluate the supplier’s best practices in each of these areas. The toolkit supports hotel management teams in their Conduct outlines the minimum standards that suppliers financial, environmental, and human resource status efforts to combat modern slavery, especially with to the Group are expected to achieve. before signing a contract. OPERATIONAL DUE DILIGENCE outsourced labor. The toolkit has been rolled out to all AUDITS geographic areas in Europe, the Middle East, and Africa, In addition to compliance with the supplier agreement, we 3. Risk mapping analysis Every hotel undergoes an internal audit every second and all of our HR managers have received training in how expect our suppliers to comply with the laws and regulations As part of our supplier due diligence, a risk mapping year. Elements of the audit include control of background to use it. In 2018, 62 percent (up 8 percent compared to which apply in the countries and jurisdictions where they analysis was created in 2017 to enable us to understand checks for all positions that handle cash as a part of their 2017) of our hotels actively used the toolkit. conduct business or deliver goods and/or services. supplier performance. In 2018, Radisson risk-mapped the role, or other sensitive positions. The background check top 50 percent of our corporate suppliers. must be done by an external company. SELF-ASSESSMENT QUESTIONNAIRE RISK MAPPING IN PROCUREMENT SYSTEM Radisson engaged the specialized human rights For Radisson to understand and control the business risk The results of the risk mapping exercise allow Radisson Other elements are checked including supplier contract consultancy Verité to create a hotel self-assessment to our supply chain, we use a range of tools to increase to have a dialogue on responsible supply chain approval, work permits for employees from outsourced tool in 2017. The self-assessment questionnaire (SAQ) is supplier visibility. management with our suppliers. It can be used for companies, reference checks on other partners of designed to identify potential gaps and vulnerabilities in supplier assessment, evaluation, and will be a discussion suppliers, and background checks on outsourced the business processes of our hotels. It also assesses the 1. Supply chain working group point in yearly meetings with suppliers. In 2018, the employees in Accounting & Finance, Human Resources, risk of forced labor or human trafficking in the business Radisson was part of the International Tourism mapping tool was integrated into the corporate Security, IT, Front Office, and Food & Beverage. An processes of third-party intermediaries which provide Partnership’s (ITP) supply chain working group. The procurement IT system. outsourced company cannot sub-contract any activities services related to the recruitment, selection, hiring, working group developed a risk-rating tool which allows delivered to the hotel without written approval from transportation, training, and management of foreign hotels to obtain a more complete overview of our TRAINING Radisson. In 2018, 61 percent of our managed and leased workers. supplier risk profile. The rating weights various criteria We endeavor to educate and facilitate our employees hotels have been audited. including spend, volume, risk, impact, and likelihood of to make a conscious decision in favor of environmental, As part of its implementation, the SAQ was tested in success. ethical, and social issues every day, both in their private RESPONSIBLE RECRUITMENT three of our hotels in the Middle East. Elements of the and work lives. We train our employees to recognize Two-percent of employees are recruited indirectly SAQ have been integrated into the annual Responsible 2. Supplier questionnaire the risks of modern slavery and human trafficking in our through a recruitment agent and 13 percent (down Business status report which is completed by all hotels. The Group updated its responsible business supplier operations. We explain the benefits of strong measures 77 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 APPENDIX RADISSON HOSPITALITY AB SLAVERY AND HUMAN TRAFFICKING STATEMENT 2018 to tackle slavery and human trafficking, as well as the carbon, water, youth employment, and human rights. email address is provided for this purpose. The Group • Include elements of the Self-Assessment consequences of failing to combat these problems. encourages any stakeholder with concerns about the Questionnaire in Area HR audits The target on human rights is to raise awareness, embed Supplier Code of Conduct and its implementation to • Continue supplier engagement and fully implement COMBATTING MODERN SLAVERY TRAINING human rights into corporate governance, and work discuss this directly with the supplier. evaluations for all corporate suppliers, and all highA training document, specifically designed for Area and collectively within the industry to address risks arising in risk and high-volume regional suppliers to ensure Hotel HR teams, is used to increase awareness of modern the labor supply chain and during hotel construction. If Radisson receives such a report, we will ask the they are complying with our Responsible Business, slavery. It provides guidance on due diligence processes. supplier to comment. If necessary, we may request the Human Rights, and preventing Modern Slavery This training is part of the Responsible Recruitment In 2018, ITP launched its Principles on Forced Labor, supplier implement an improvement plan to correct policies. Toolkit and includes information on responsible practices moving us closer to our Goal for human rights. The three the issue. If the supplier does not act or respond • Continue the risk mapping analysis to include all and the use of the toolkit. Principles on Forced Labor are: to the report or concern, and is not willing to work corporate suppliers and all high-risk and high• Every worker should have freedom of movement on correcting the issue, they can be subjected to volume regional suppliers CHILD PROTECTION AND ANTI-TRAFFICKING • No worker should pay for a job disciplinary action. This can include termination as an • Continue our cooperation with other industry Protecting victims of human trafficking is very important • No worker should be indebted or coerced to work. Radisson Supplier, and/or review by local authorities. partners via the ITP network to identify and share to Radisson. We take a public stand and work to prevent However, best practice suggests we try to work with the best practices human trafficking and the exploitation of women and RADISSON ETHICS PLATFORM supplier to improve their practices rather than dropping • Include and update modern slavery elements in our children. We ensure all employees are trained in our A cornerstone of our Code of Business Ethics them. Suppliers are requested to notify their employees, existing manuals, contracts, owner International special Child Protection module. This module is part of implementation is ethics.radissonhotels.com, a website and any sub-contractors who work for Radisson, that Management Agreements (IMA), standards of our mandatory, classroom-based, Living Responsible run by an independent third-party organization. they may report serious or sensitive concerns, or operation, and audits Business training. The module includes various caseEmployees can use this site to find information on possible breaches of the Supplier Code of Conduct. • Deliver a new global Responsible Business training based scenarios, training employees to identify and our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and report including modules on Human Trafficking and Forced report suspicious behaviour. It encourages discussion concerns anonymously. Any employee with concerns or FURTHER STEPS Labor. amongst participants on what actions to take. questions about the Code is encouraged to raise these The risks of modern slavery and human trafficking in our directly with their supervisor or person of trust in the operations, and in our supply chain, need our constant SIGNED BY THE BOARD AWARENESS RAISING PROGRAMS hotel or regional organization. If this is not possible, attention. Because of the growth of our operations, This annual statement for the full year 2018 was BEST PRACTICE IN THE INDUSTRY the employee can report the issue online. The site and we must continuously monitor and manage our supply approved by the Board of Radisson Hospitality AB. Radisson believes that the hospitality industry can be a hotline are available in eleven languages and can be chain risk. We will continue to combat modern slavery force for good and make a positive contribution to tackle utilized by all employees, outsourced employees, and and human trafficking to minimize and manage risks modern slavery and human trafficking. The Group is a agency workers. Of the 61 reports made in in 2018, none and develop better ways to increase the visibility of our member of the International Tourism Partnership (ITP) involved allegations concerning modern slavery. actions in our operations and supply chain. which provides a voice for environmental and social responsibility in the industry. Violations of our supplier code of conduct Over the coming year we plan to: Mingju Ma Suppliers are expected to comply with the standards of • Continue the development of tools on the Chairman In 2017, ITP and its members took a stand on four critical the Supplier Code of Conduct and with all applicable responsible recruitment framework and to make issues which the industry’s stakeholders want the hotel laws and regulations. In cases where modern slavery, them available to our hotels. We will also conduct sector to address. These issues are articulated in ITP’s human trafficking, exploitation of children, or forced and risk evaluations of suppliers of outsourced labor. Goals for 2030. The four Goals set out our vision for compulsory labor is discovered in the supply chain, it • Continue to encourage hotel teams to use the how hotel companies can work together on targets for must be reported to Radisson without delay. A specific Responsible Recruitment toolkit 78 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 APPENDIX AUDITOR’S REPORT AUDITOR’S REPORT ON THE STATUTORY SUSTAINABILITY Group REPORT www.linkedin.com/company/radisson-hotel-group/ To Radisson Hospitality AB (publ), corporate identity number 556674-0964 Employees www.instagram.com/radissonmoments/ RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board of Directors is responsible for the statutory Guests and other External Stakeholders sustainability report, and that it has been prepared in www.instagram.com/radissonhotels/ accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE AUDITOR Group Our examination of the statutory sustainability report www.twitter.com/radissongroup has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevR 12 Auditor’s report on the statutory Guests and other External Stakeholders sustainability report. This means that our examination www.twitter.com/radissonhotels of the statutory sustainability report is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in Guests and other External Stakeholders accordance with International Standards on Auditing www.facebook.com/radissonhotels and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for my opinion. Group www.youtube.com/radissonhotelgroup CONCLUSION A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. Group www.radissonhotels.com/responsible-business Stockholm, March 20, 2019 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Signed by Eric Salander Authorized Public Accountant IDA GUTIÉRREZ DE ESCOFET Auditor in charge Senior Advisor for Corporate Affairs Erik Bergh ida.gutierrezdeescofet@radissonhotels.com Authorized Public Accountant INGE HUIJBRECHTS Global Senior Vice President Responsible Business and Safety & Security 79 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2018 Inge.huijbrechts@radissonhotels.com #radissoncares
