COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 CONTENTS CEO statement........................................................................................................................................ 3 How did we reach our 2018 goals........................................................................................................... 4 Company profile...................................................................................................................................... 5 Introduction............................................................................................................................................. 6 PEOPLE A diverse Pressalit................................................................................................................................... 8 Employee portraits.................................................................................................................................. 9 Strength in diversity............................................................................................................................... 10 Integrational education.......................................................................................................................... 11 PULSE: An employee survey................................................................................................................. 12 ENVIRONMENT Welcoming 100,000 bees...................................................................................................................... 14 Reduction of food waste....................................................................................................................... 15 Minimising production waste................................................................................................................ 16 Product development Sprint................................................................................................................. 17 Focus on reducing energy consumption............................................................................................... 18 SOCIETY Changing places.................................................................................................................................... 20 Case: Laura’s Bathroom........................................................................................................................ 21 Parasport Denmark: An eventful year................................................................................................... 22 Events related to the UN....................................................................................................................... 23 Partnering with UNICEF........................................................................................................................ 24 Christmas at Pressalit........................................................................................................................... 25 2019 goals............................................................................................................................................. 26 2 CEO STATEMENT Corporate social responsibility is, and always has been, a This year, we have initiated a number of new partnerships corner stone in the Pressalit company culture. For over 50 and initiatives at Pressalit. Among others, we have welcomed years, we have worked to build a sustainable and responsible 100,000 bees to our property, we have visited Jordan with company with a strong local, environmental, and social focus. UNICEF to see how our partnership makes a difference for so many children, and we have followed and supported our PresAt Pressalit, we believe in meeting global challenges at a local salit-sponsored Danish para-athletes in their hunt for medals. level. We believe that we can do our part to create a better world. If all of us – organisations, companies, and individuals – At Pressalit, we will continue to work with sustainability across do a little bit, we will be on the right direction towards a more all levels of our organization. We are determined to keep sustainable world. demonstrating how companies play a crucial role, not only economically but also in terms of sustainability, in creating a This is why we have been committed to the UN Global Combetter and more sustainable tomorrow. pact since 2002, and without hesitation embraced the UN Development Goals in 2016. For this reason, we at Pressalit Kim Boyter have chosen to focus on Sustainable Development Goals CEO, Pressalit A/S number 4, 6, and 12, as they concern areas close to our core business, knowledge, and experience. We have the ambition to contribute to solving global challenges, and we aim to be a role model within our field of business. 3 HOW DID WE REACH OUR 2018 GOALS 1. We will continue partnerships with NGOs and 6. Maintain and expand the diversity of our range of associations and identify at least one new potential interns. We want to reach further than Eastern collaboration. Jutland. • In 2018, we continued our collaboration with the Danish • In 2018, we have had interns in various age groups NGO World’s Best News. Additionally, we have entered from a number of different educational institutions from into a partnership with the socio-economic organisation both Northern and Eastern Jutland and with diverse BISTAD. educational backgrounds. 2. Enter partnership with UNICEF. 7. Maintain a level of at least 5% of employees on • In 2018, we initiated our partnership with UNICEF, special terms. supporting their WASH initiatives worldwide. • In 2018, the level of employees on special term is 7.89 percent. 3. We aim to enter one or more relevant partnerships with NGOs or associations. 8. Reduce our environmental impact cf. our annual • In 2018, we have initiated a collaboration with the local environmental accounts. initiative BISTAD, which provides vulnerable citizens with a • We have met the required standards of the ISO 14001 meaningful job and a purpose. re-certification. • We have reduced CO2 emissions with 4163.9 kg by 4. We want to launch at least three new initiatives that recycling food waste into biogas. specifically support the global goals number 4, 6 and 12. In 2018, we have launched the following 9. We aim to increase the average score of the pulse initiatives: survey. The aim for the “Can”-score is 75 and the • #4: We take part in the Integrational Education project aim for the “Will”-score is 80. “IOP”, which educates refugees and unskilled employees • In 2018, we achieved a “Can”-score of 74 and a to become plant operators. “Will”-score of 80 in the Pulse survey. • #6: We support UNICEF’s WASH initiatives. • #12: We hosted a Sprint under the theme: 10. We aspire to obtain the working environment “How to create the sustainable products of the future?” certification. • Because of the high Danish standards and mandatory 5. We work for the expansion of decent and proper check-ups, Pressalit has chosen to spend money on sanitation nationally and globally and we aim to improving our work environment rather than on the actual improve the sanitary conditions for the 2.3 billion certification. However, Pressalit meets all practical require people, who do not have access to basic sanitation. ments of the work environment certification. • Globally, we worked to improve sanitary conditions through our partnership with UNICEF WASH. • Nationally, we create awareness of the global sanitary crisis e.g. by marking the World Toilet Day 2018 and by hosting a presentation in collaboration with UNICEF on the WASH project. 4 COMPANY PROFILE Pressalit A/S is a Danish company founded in 1954. Pressalit Pressalit aspires to create value for both our customers, is a privately owned Danish Ltd. Company formally owned by employees, and our surrounding community. Corporate social Pressalit Holding, which has been owned by the Boyter family responsibility (CSR) is an embedded part of the Pressalit in three generations. tradition, as we believe that responsibility and performance go hand in hand. Pressalit has two areas of business: Pressalit Seats and Pressalit Care. Pressalit Seats produces high quality toilet Pressalit’s mission is to develop, produce, and sell design and seats and is one of the leading brands in the market. quality bathroom solutions, with the vision of being a profiPressalit Care produces bathroomand kitchen solutions for table, competitive and value-creating company acknowledged people with reduced functional ability. Pressalit’s production for our: is placed in Ry, Denmark where the company headquarter is located as well. • Quality • Innovative solutions Pressalit is a global company, with offices in eight countries • Focus on responsibility around the world. Pressalit exports 80 % of our production, and operates in 45 international markets across the world. Workforce Location Workforce Location 2 16 16 7 24/7 2 Germany 7 120 different 6 24/7 Germany Norway England 6 choices of high 1 Norway England 1 Sweden Sweden Australia quality funcAustralia production 1 production tional design France 1 2 France USA 267 Denmark 2 USA We care about our community Offices in 7 countriesaround the world 267 We work actively with We support We support Danish and represented in 45 countries Denmark We care about o the UN Global Goals sanitation for athletes with a children globally disability Offices in 7 countriesaround the world We work actively with We su and represented in 45 countries the UN Global Goals sanitat children We have Designed and produced in approximately We produce Denmark since 1954 11,500 301 employees 150 workers are in supported by 40 robots Units per day 5 INTRODUCTION This Communication on Progress report accounts for Pressalit’s In the following, we present our sustainable progress throughout sustainable initiatives and activities, which were implemented 2018. The report is divided into three headings: in 2018. Overall, the report comprises our work with Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). PEOPLE • ENVIRONMENT • SOCIETY Social and environmental responsibility has always been a People are an essential part of Pressalit’s spirit, and have been central pillar in the Pressalit way. Pressalit’s company culture for 63 years. Through many years, we have worked to create an and business approach are deeply rooted in the belief that inclusive company. we as company have an important responsibility of leaving a positive impact, both socially and environmentally. This involves Environmentally, Pressalit wants to leave a positive impact on activities and collaborations between Pressalit, our surrounding the world for the next generations, as we believe we have a society, NGOs, as well as national and international institutions responsibility to minimise our impact on the environment. and organisations. Pressalit takes a particular interest in the local community. As Pressalit has grown and expanded beyond the Danish Pressalit’s commitment to the UN’s global corporate sustainborder, so has our local community as well. ability initiative was manifested in 2002, as the ten principles of the UN Global Compact was integrated into our code of conduct. This entails compliance with human rights, labour, environment, and anti-corruption, which we continuously review to ensure that we are up to date. In 2016, Pressalit further cemented our sustainability ambition, as we adopted the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDG). In particular, Pressalit focuses on three SDGs, which are specifically relevant to our core business: #4 Quality Education, #6 Clean Water and Sanitation, and #12 Responsible Consumption and Production. 6 7 A DIVERSE PRESSALIT At Pressalit, we believe that diversity strengthens our business. We have a long tradition as a diverse workplace with a culture of openness, respect, and responsibility. We strive to live by these rules in everything we do. DRIVEN BY VALUES We share a vivid culture, which is supported by our four shared with diverse backgrounds, as we believe that a diverse group values; we listen, we give, we play, and we act. These values of employees contributes to a developing and innovative culture. make room for diversity and bind us together because: For this reason, we are open to attracting, retaining, and developing people so Pressalit reflects the global society in • Diversity helps us listen, because we respect different which we operate. opinions • Diversity helps us give, because we cooperate and share SPECTRUM OF DIVERSITY knowledge In 2018, we did a small study based on our Pressalit ‘Spectrum • Diversity helps us play, because it makes us curious of Diversity’. The objective was to analyse the diversity within • Diversity helps us act, because we perform better together the company, and to reinforce focus on our work with diversity. Our Spectrum of Diversity is divided into 12 parameters, and DIVERSITY AT OUR CORE reflects what we at Pressalit focus on in our work with diversity. For over 60 years, Pressalit has embraced and employed a Some of our findings are highlighted below. diverse workforce in all departments of the company. At Pressalit, we place a great emphasis on recruiting employees aliittyyn Sresxoeunligaailo PoecaRtIaio ernlnasl ntttnio V d u c Estudenrnossuhnip c ia l aincte kGgen r Adger ed e Sp bility Et hn ic ity rk Socialtointer wons SPECTRUM OF DIVERSITY Ab 2018 78% 84% 82% 87% feel we are open to feel they can be feel we are open to all answer that we represent all sexual orientations themselves religious beliefs different educations Sexuality Educational Personality Religion background 13 0 special internships 10 11 Vocational Social interns Special internship students Interns 6,9% 61% are employed on anwer that we represent special terms 20-30 31-40 41-50 51-60 61-> 65,22% 34,78% different etnicities Ability to work Age Gender Ethnicity 8 EMPLOYEE PORTRAITS HELENE MØRK With a background in Sports Marketing from Real Madrid ASSISTANT, FACILITY SERVICE Graduate School, Jonas is able to contribute with new and different perspectives to the content creation processes. Meet Helene! According to Jonas, this is one of the strengths of the She has been a part of the Pressalit department: flex team for almost 8 years, cleaning every corner of the company “The best thing about Pressalit’s Marketing Department is head-quarter. In spite of struggling the large variation in our competencies: we can all learn from with muscle fatigue caused by a disease in her thyroid gland each other. It gives us the perfect conditions for creating and a minor blood clot, Helene loves to go to work at Pressalit. interesting marketing and content across nations and our fields of business.” “Even though I am only working 16 hours a week, it means everything to me to be able to go to work every morning and be with my colleagues”, Helene says. Torben Baastrup Kudsk According to Helene, Pressalit’s social environment, and inclusiOperator, Pressalit Seats ve, unprejudiced approach to its employees, is an essential part Manufacturing of what makes Pressalit such a nice place to work. This gives a strong sense of team spirit between the colleagues on the flex Meet Torben! team: He has worked 40 years in the Pressalit Seats production. In his time “It does not matter, whether you work 25, 15, or 12 hours a at Pressalit, Torben has had many different work tasks. Now he week, or why you are working on the flex team. We are all drives the forklift truck moving the raw toilet seats to the robots in the same situation so you never feel alone.” for them to be grinded and shaped. When Torben first started in the production, the shaping and polishing of the toilet seats was done by hand. In 1984, Torben JONAS JOHANSEN was part of the team installing the first robots and developing MARKETING CONSULTANT the new system in the production. The developments are, according to Torben, one of the things making Pressalit an inteMeet Jonas! resting place to work. He is the newest member of Pressalit’s Marketing Department, “When you have been working in the same place as long as where he started this summer. Here, I have, you might have a tendency to get stuck in the same Jonas is in charge of creating content routines. I think Pressalit is pretty good at keeping up, and it has for Pressalit’s various platforms and customers been very interesting to follow and be part of the development.” in close collaboration with our Sales Departments. “It has been great starting here at Pressalit. Everyone has been extremely nice and welcoming. After only a month in the office, it felt like I had already been working here for years.” 9 STRENGTH IN DIVERSITY At Pressalit, we work from the belief that a diverse workforce provides a stronger base of knowledge and experience. People with different educations and backgrounds are a key element in order to keep growing and developing as a company. We believe one of the ways for us to continue learning, is characterised by a steep learning curve, lots of responsibility, through the knowledge and experience of our employees, and practical experience. apprentices, trainees, and interns. For this reason, Pressalit takes part in a number of different educational collaborations, Pressalit also gains a lot from having these educational collabowhich keep us up to date on the latest developments within rations, as they contribute with new perspectives and the latest fields relevant to our business. knowledge from many different fields. In 2018, we have had interns from within the fields of e.g. EMPLOYEES ON SPECIAL TERM supply chain, corporate communication, multimedia design, and Pressalit has made the conscious decision to provide people sociology. with reduced work capacity the chance to maintain links with the job market. This is why we strive to uphold a level of at least PRESSALIT: THE COMPANY CASE 5 % of employees on special terms. Among other things, this At Pressalit, we also collaborate on cases, projects, and theses. entails that a team comprised solely of employees on special We believe these types of collaborations provide a mutually terms manages the cleaning and maintenance of Pressalit’s beneficial learning situation in the combination of practical and locations and green areas. theoretical knowledge. This fall, for instance, a local high school class visited the PresINTERNS, APPRENTICES, AND TRAINEES salit headquarter for a day of casework on a real-life case from Interns, apprentices, and trainees from educational institutions our Marketing department. The day ended with the students all across Denmark are an important part of Pressalit. Each type presenting their solutions for a jury consisting of representatives of educational collaboration is individually tailored, and is from Pressalit’s HR & Policyand Marketing departments. 10 INTEGRATIONAL EDUCATION In collaboration with the Danish Agency for International Recruitment and Integration, Pressalit takes part in the Integrational Education project. The project combines integration and education in order to meet The project’s business model has also caught the interest of the increasing shortage of trained plant operators. As part of the international organisations, such as the UN Refugee Agency project, one refugee and one Pressalit employee are educated and OECD, as a way of benefitting from the migration challenge. as plant operators, taking turns at going to school and working It is not just CSR – it is business in Pressalit’s production. Pressalit has been involved in the integration project since 2016. GLOBAL CHALLENGES, LOCAL SOLUTIONS However, the project is not just another CSR initiative; it is a In October 2018, two Pressalit teams including Omar, Ulf, win-win situation for both refugees, Pressalit employees, and Helen, and Torben started their educational training. Both Omar Pressalit. and Helen have come to Denmark within recent years in the aftermath of the international migration wave. “The project allows me to dream bigger, as I develop professionally. It is a stepping stone and provides the opportunity of Helen describes the project as a unique opportunity: greater responsibilities.” – Torben. “It is a chance of getting a job in Denmark. Now, I will be able to provide myself and my family, as well as being a role model to In this way, the combination of integration, education and cormy children.” Helen. porate collaboration ends up benefitting all parties involved. The educational collaboration between refugees and companies represents a business model, which benefits both refugees, companies and the society, thereby offering a local solution to a global challenge. 11 PULSE: AN EMPLOYEE SURVEY Every year, Pressalit takes the pulse of the organisation with an employee PULSE survey. The objective is to measure our employees’ engagement and motivation, and to ensure their influence on the work structures and company culture. The PULSE survey enables Pressalit to benchmark on our This year, 90 % of all Pressalit employees answered the employees’ work satisfaction, and to identity particular areas 53 questions of Opportunities the PULSE survey.and Barrierers The general result is with room for improvements. considered 100 satisfactory, as the employee “Satisfaction and Motivation” and “Opportunities and Barriers” have both 90 In the survey, our employees were asked about their job satisimproved slightly compared to last year. faction and how they experience Pressalit’s way of collaborating, 80 74 74 71 both in their individual departments and across the organisation. Pressalit 70 is proud of the positive development. We do, however, Furthermore, the employees were asked about their individual aim to further improve the results of the PULSE survey in 2019. 60 motivation, goals, efforts, and development. 50 Among other things, the survey measures the employees’ “Will 40 vs. Can Ability”, which implies whether employees are satisfied 30 with and motivated in their jobs, and whether they have the 20 necessary competencies and opportunities to fulfil their work tasks. 10 0 2016 2017 2018 Opportunities and Barriers Satisfaction and Motivation Opportunities and Barrierers Satisfaction and Motivation 100 100 90 90 80 80 80 80 77 74 74 71 70 70 60 60 50 50 40 40 30 30 20 20 10 10 0 0 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Satisfaction and Motivation 12 100 WELCOMING 100,000 BEES The Danish and global bee population is declining, which challenges the world’s natural biodiversity. In spite of their modest size and appearance, the bees’ pollination of plants is essential to a large part of the global food production. No less than 1/3 of all food production is dependent on bees’ pollination of plants. To counter this negative development, Pressalit has joined forces with the local organization BISTAD, and has welcomed 100,000 bees to our company headquarter. BISTAD is a socioeconomic organisation with a special focus We hope that our new beehives will contribute to the awareness on socialand environmental aspects. The organisation works of the bees’ important function for the biodiversity. Moreover, we towards the objectives of: are looking forward to harvesting the first Pressalit honey next year. • Providing vulnerable citizens with a meaningful job and a purpose. SOCIOECONOMIC VALUE • Producing and harvesting local organic honey. Aside from the objective of ensuring an essential element in large parts of the food chain for us humans, the project also has 30 KILOS OF LOCAL HONEY great socioeconomic value. Through the collaboration, Pressalit This August, two beehives were set up at our company headhelps creating jobs for vulnerable citizens, who, through quarter. Here, the bees have beautiful, natural surroundings BISTAD, find a meaningful job and a place in the workforce. where they can find nourishment and pollinate flowers. Each This, we believe, provides value for them, us, and society. beehive hosts 50,000 bees, which produce a total of 30 kilos of honey each year. 14 REDUCTION OF FOOD WASTE At Pressalit, we strive to minimise our waste of food and reduce our environmental footprint through initiatives in our kitchen. SUSTAINABLE COLLABORATION WITH HØRKRAM In 2018, Pressalit initiated a collaboration with Hørkram, which is our new supplier of sustainable and organic ingredients for the Pressalit kitchen. Like Pressalit, Hørkram takes a clear STEPS IN THE RIGHT DIRECTION stance regarding responsibility and sustainability, as they focus Aside from the collaboration with Hørkram, the Pressalit kitchen on organic, seasonal, and high-quality produce. serves a vegetarian meal once a week and fish three times a month, in an attempt to minimise the consumption of meat. Every Friday, a buffet with leftovers from the past week is served, as a way of reducing the waste of leftover food. Furthermore, Pressalit’s employees have the opportunity to take home leftovers from lunch. The collaboration with Hørkram was initiated on the initiative of team leader of Pressalit’s kitchen, Gitte Sejersen, who wished to optimise the kitchen’s purchasing process, and to buy more local and organic food. “We chose to collaborate with Hørkram because they offer quality products in all food categories from a large number of WASTE TURNED INTO NEW ENERGY organic and sustainable suppliers. Furthermore, Hørkram shares Another initiative to reduce our environmental footprint is the our values and opinions in regards to the environment, safety, collaboration with Daka Refood, who collects and recycles food employee well-being and quality.” – Gitte Sejersen, team leader. waste into biogas; a green and more sustainable type of energy. Instead of simply throwing away our leftover food and waste, it is recycled into new energy. Below is an illustration of the difference made by our recycling of organic waste. On a yearly basis, Pressalit collects 5840 kg of organic waste, which after recycling corresponds to: Enough organic A reduction of CO2 The production of heat for The production of nourishment to fertilize emissions with 4163.9 kg 192.2 days in an average 5369.3 kWh 15 9530.9 kg carrots household MINIMISING PRODUCTION WASTE At Pressalit, we aspire to be a responsible and sustainable production company with a particular focus on recycling and minimising our waste. This entails continuous efforts to optimise our processes and innovate our products, so our plastic waste does not end up having a negative impact on the environment. Pressalit toilet seats are made from urea formaldehyde moulding compound, which hardens into thermoset plastic as the seats/ • Burr from the moulds, i.e. leftover material, which is pressed lids are pressed. Once the compound has been pressed, the from the mould during the pressing of seats and lids. This thermoset plastic cannot be re-used or re-shaped. type of waste is not yet possible for us to recycle. Instead, it is sent to the local CHP plant where it is used in the For this reason, we have to find alternative ways to recycle our production of heat and power. production waste. The production of toilet seats entails three types of waste, which are recycled to leave the smallest • Material dust, e.g. from filters, presses, and grinding of the environmental footprint possible: raw seats and lids. The dust is difficult to process and can not be used e.g. in the CHP plant, which is why, for now, it • Rejected units, i.e. toilet seats and lids with defects and is sent to a waste deposit. flaws. The defect units are crushed and sent to customers in the US and England, where it is used to treat aluminium profiles in the aircraft industry. 16 PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT SPRINT At Pressalit, we continuously strive to develop and innovate our products and processes to become more sustainable. Being a production company, it is important for Pressalit to keep perfecting materials, formulas, and procedures in our work with reducing production waste. In order to challenge and rethink our normal work processes for product innovation, Pressalit’s Product Development Department hosted a one-week Sprint. SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTION The overall theme of the Pressalit Sprint was: “How do we A sprint is a project create the future’s sustainable products?”. The participants management tool. formed three groups, which were given three different subthemes under the overall theme of sustainability. Over the course of the week, the groups were dedicated to generate The work method ideas, which were then transformed into concepts subject to encourages innovative, testing and validation. agile, and tangible brainINNOVATION AND RE-THINKING storming and collaboration The sustainability theme of the Sprint aligns naturally with often across organizational Pressalit’s focus on being a responsible and sustainable company. For Pressalit to keep moving in a more sustainable departments. direction, we need to keep innovating and rethinking all aspects of our processes and products. The Sprint method enables us to work intensively with the innovation of our products and processes, e.g. in terms of reusing and recycling materials and products. 17 FOCUS ON REDUCING ENERGY CONSUMPTION In 2018, Pressalit initiated a new initiative to map out our energy use with the aim of becoming more energy efficient and minimise our environmental footprint. As part of the initiative, Pressalit had a thorough examination Furthermore, and even thought it might seem like a small and of our energy consumption in terms of heating, electricity, and simple initiative, we plan to take action in reducing the use of fuels. The review of our energy consumption forms a starting electricity at our headquarter, as we believe we will be able to point from which we can work on reducing our consumption. make improvements e.g. by switching to LED-lights. The energy report revealed a number of focus areas for future We believe that every little initiative counts in our efforts to work, primarily related to heating and electricity. Particularly in minimise our environmental footprint on the world. terms of heating in our storageand production facilities, there appears to be room for improvements. We are positive that our consumption of heat can be reduced, without it affecting the work environment in our storage and production facilities negatively. 18 19 CHANGING PLACES An important part of Pressalit Care’s business objective is to enable and support the mobility and accessibility of people with a disability. This is an ambition Pressalit shares with the Changing Places organisation, who creates convenient bathroom facilities in public spaces for people with profound, multiple learning disabilities, and physical disabilities. We at Pressalit are proud to present our products in several Changing Places facilities all over the world. Our products are A Changing Places bathroom facility is a combined toilet, featured in the UK with the Changing Places initiative, in the US, shower and changing room for people who require the help of New Zealand, and Australia with the Changing Spaces initiative, one or more assistants. The motivation behind the and in Germany with the Toiletten für Alle initiative. Changing Places’ initiative is to meet the need for special designed bathrooms, thereby providing people with a disability In the future, we aspire to continue our collaboration with Chanwith the same accessibility as everybody else. ging Places and the promotion of Changing Places facilities. Requirements for a Changing Places Bathroom A Changing Places bathroom must be a minimum of 12 m2, and include a peninsular toilet, a washbasin, a height-adjustable adult sized changing bench, a privacy screen, and a ceiling track hoist. 20 CASE: LAURA’S BATHROOM At Pressalit, we believe in equality. That includes increasing the accessibility of people with reduced functional capacity, which is a key objective embodied in our Pressalit Care products. Laura is 13 years old and like many of her fellow teenagers, she This is how, our Care products are able to contribute to the reis interested in make-up and appearances. Laura’s story is an duction of inequalities, as they increase mobility and accessibiliexample of how we at Pressalit are able to contribute to increaty of the users. This enables people with a disability or reduced sing health and wellbeing as well as provide better accessibility functional capacity with to be more independent, both in their to people with a disability or reduced functional capacity. private homes and in public spaces. Yet another aspect of being a teenager is the increased desire At Pressalit, we work daily with this particular issue and SDG for independence. In this regard as well, Laura is no different #10. We believe that enabling and mobilizing people is an imfrom other teenagers. However, Laura suffers from muscular portant step on the way to reduce the inequalities of the world. dystrophy. This means still needs her parents help to a large extent, particularly in the bathroom. 21 PARASPORT DENMARK: AN EVENTFUL YEAR 9-18 MARCH 2018: PARALYMPIC WINTER GAMES Daniel Wagner, competed at this year’s Winter Paralympics in PyeongChang, South Korea. Daniel, who has been snowboarding for the last 10 years, participated the disciplines banked slalom and snowboard cross, where he finished in top 10 in both disciplines. He is the first Danish snowboarder at the Paralympics. 20-26 AUGUST 2018: EUROPEAN PARA ATHLETIC CHAMPIONSHIPS The European Para Athletic Championship kicked off in Berlin this year. Our Danish athletes brought home 7 medals; 3 gold, 2 silver and 2 bronze. Pressalit sponsored Daniel Wagner won gold in the disciplines long jump and 100m sprint. 18-23 SEPTEMBER 2018: WORLD EQUESTRIAN GAMES Para-equestrian, Stinna Tange won two gold medals at this year’s World Equestrian Games in Tyron, USA. It was Stinna’s first World championship, and it is the first time in Danish para-dressage history that a Danish athlete has become double world champion. 3-4 NOVEMBER 2018: PRESSALIT SPORTS ACADEMY As part of Pressalit’s sponsorship of Parasport Denmark, Pressalit hosts a yearly Sports Academy. This year’s academy gathered 80 Danish para-athletes, talents, and coaches for an event of knowledge sharing and learning leading up to the 2020 Paralympic Games in Tokyo. The theme of this year’s academy was branding and storytelling on social media. “I think it’s important to follow the athletes’ development and personally, it interests me to be part of making a change. At Pressalit, we have contributed to lift great athletes with great results, not least this past year where I have been present at the sports events.” – Dan Boyter. 22 EVENTS RELATED TO THE UN WORLD TOILET DAY Every year on 19 November, Pressalit marks the UN’s World Toilet Day to raise awareness of poor sanitary conditions many places around the world. World Toilet Day is about inspiring action to tackle the global The theme of this year’s celebration in the UN City Copenhagen sanitation crisis. Today, 4.5 billion people live without a safe toilet was “Children and the UN Sustainable Development Goals”. and 892 million people still practice open defecation, which has a massive impact on societies around the world. At Pressalit, the UN’s sustainable development goals are an integrated part our business operations, which is why Pressalit This year, Pressalit marked the World Toilet Day with an insupports the agenda of protecting the world for future generahouse event for our employees, featuring a UNICEF WASH tions. This was also the theme of the talk on how companies photo exhibition, and a quiz with prizes related to the WASH successfully implement the SDGs into the company business initiative and the SDGs. At Pressalit, sanitation is a huge part and DNA, where Pressalit Co-owner Dan Boyter was invited to of our daily work, which is why we find it important to help participate. improving the global sanitary conditions, e.g. through our sponsorship of UNICEF’s WASH project. By working actively to improve and develop in a more sustainable and responsible direction, Pressalit is able to UNICEF has visited Pressalit regarding the new cooperation. help take care of the world for future generations, and lower Here, our employees had the opportunity to gain insight into the our environmental footprints. The young generations are the partnership and how Pressalit makes a difference for vulnerable future of the world, which is why children are key in reaching children. the ambitious agenda of a sustainable world in 2030. UNIVERSAL CHILDREN’S DAY The Universal Children’s Day celebrates the UN’s Convention on the Rights of the Child, and promotes children’s rights through dialogues and actions to build a better world for children. 23 PARTNERING WITH UNICEF In 2018, Pressalit initiated a partnership with UNICEF on the promotion of the UNICEF WASH project, which raises global awareness of poor water and sanitary conditions. Today, around 2.4 billion people do not have access to improved sanitation, and 663 million do not have access to improved water sources . The impact of exposure to human TRIP TO JORDAN faeces on this scale has a devastating impact upon public As part of the collaboration with UNICEF, Pressalit Co-owner health, living and working conditions, nutrition, education and Dan Boyter and Chief Marketing Officer Mette Dyhl had the economic productivity across the world. unique opportunity of visiting refugee camps in Jordan, in order to experience first-hand how the UNICEF WASH initiative makes PRESSALIT AND THE WASH INITIATIVE a difference. Pressalit’s partnership with UNICEF is part of our focus on SDG #6. Sanitation is an essential part of our core business, which is The trip provided an insight into the way UNICEF implements why the UNICEF partnership lies close to the heart of Pressalit. the WASH sanitary infrastructure, which includes everything Supporting UNICEF’s WASH team in improving water and from wells and underground water piping to waste water sanitation services and basic hygiene practices all over the treatment. Once the refugee camp is dismantled, the sanitary world, thus naturally connects Pressalit’s field of business with system will remain, as a new town will be built around it. our focus on being a sustainable and responsible company. During the visit in Jordan, Dan and Mette also had the chance to meet and talk to children and families who have been touched by the help and initiatives of the WASH project. “Being in the field was quite an experience; I was impressed to see how UNICEF is able to construct refugee camps and implement the WASH structure. It was surprising to see how little it takes to create a huge difference in real life.” – Mette Dyhl Prola, Chief Marketing Officer. 24 CHRISTMAS AT PRESSALIT Christmas time at Pressalit is full of traditions; the company headquarter shines from a thousand lights and Christmas trees decorate the halls, canteens, and offices. Our Christmas trees are decorated with homemade decorations by a local kindergarten, and at the annual Pressalit Christmas party, our employees and their families light the Christmas three with a little help from Santa himself. “It is nice being able to give Giving back is another Pressalit Christmas tradition. For the something back. It is a really past nine years, we have hosted an annual Christmas dinner at “Værestedet” in Aarhus: a local drop-in centre for homeless. great event, and we all work Giving back is an essential aspect of Pressalit’s social focus, together in order to make it a day as we believe it is important for companies to take action in to remember for everyone who supporting vulnerable groups of society. participates.” – Anne Katrine, Kitchen Assistant at Pressalit. The dinner is organised by Pressalit’s employees, who volunteer to spend the day preparing and serving a traditional Danish Christmas dinner. 25 2019 GOALS GOALS FOR OUR EFFORTS IN 2019: • Optimise the product lifecycle in our value chain in order to promote a cradle to cradle perspective in our product development on a long term • Maintain a level of at least 6%of employees on special terms. • Maintain the high score in our annual PULSE-survey • Decrease the diffusion of satisfaction within the PULSE-survey • Reduce the amount of waste from our production • Activate our UNICEF-partnership in marketing campaigns and internally with at least 4 activities throughout the year • Actively advocate for the SDGs and our work with them internally and externally with at least 7 initiatives throughout the year • Increase the focus on sustainability in our facility services, particularly with a focus on reduction of food waste and an increase in climate-friendly food in our canteen • Work actively with Pressalit’s internal diversity spectrum to increase tolerance and understanding Pressalit A/S • Pressalitvej 1 • 8680 Ry, Denmark • T: +45 8788 8788 • pressalit@pressalit.com www.pressalit.com 26
