United Nations Global Compact Communications on Progress 2019 CEO’s STATEMENT March 26, 2019 To our Stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Gulf Catering Company for General Trade and Contracting, WLL reaffirms its support of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our continued adherence to the principles of the Global Compact, our commitment to corporate citizenship and our achievements in furthering the 10 Principles in our business strategy, work culture and daily operations. Our company operates in remote and challenging locations throughout the Middle East, Africa, Australia and Asia, serving a commercial and NGO client base. We mitigate conflicting social and customary business practices through ISO training and audits, as well as on-line ethics training. Our 2019 position reflects the below certifications, awards and achievements: § ISO 9001:2015 certification for UAE, Australia, Indonesia, Iraq, France and Uganda § ISO 14001:2015 certification for UAE and Uganda § ISO 18001:2007 certification for Indonesia, Uganda and the UAE § ISO 22000:2005 certification for Cyprus, UAE, Sudan/Darfur, Indonesia, Iraq and the UAE § HACCP certification by Highfield, UK of 471 Sudanese staff members in Iraq, Sudan/Darfur and Abyei § Continued “Go Green” Environmental Recycling and Tree Planting Program in Africa and Iraq § Continued “Go Green’’ Composting and Kitchen Garden in Abyei Sudan to replace imported fruits and vegetables carbon footprint and increase staff quality of life § Award of the American Society for Safety Engineers HSE Excellence Award 2019 – our 4th GOLD Award § Award of the American Society for Safety Engineers CSR Excellence Award 2019– 3rd GOLD Award § Arab Organization for Corporate Social Responsibility – 3 rd Award § TATWEEJ Awarding Body (UAE) Corporate Social Responsibility Award 2018 – our 3rd award and 2019 ‘Golden Eagle’ Award for leadership in CSR § Establishment of corporate Construction Skills Training Program for Ghanian and Cote D’Ivoirian employees Annually, we select a CSR project that is proposed by our employees who take responsibility for the projects we support. To date, we have refurbished three schools in the Darfur region of Sudan. In 2018, we financed the creation of the Al Bareej Computer Learning Center in Amman, Jordan where women and children refugees from Syria, Iraq and Gaza learn skills that help them develop futures. We proudly present our latest achievement to our stakeholders. Rashad Sinokrot, CEO 33 rd floor, Mazaya Business Avenue , Plot No. AA1, Jume irah Lakes Towers, P.O. Box 634367 Dubai, Unite d Arab Em irates . Tel: +971 (0) 4-4552600 Fax: +971 (0) 4-4552699 Email: info@ gccservices .com Webs ite: www.gccse rvices.com 1 UN GLOBAL COMPACT Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses Gulf Catering Company adheres to the United Nations Proclaimed International Human Rights. Our Ethics training, business practices and Corporate Social Responsibility Programs support and promote these rights. Gulf Catering Company personnel are required to participate in Ethics and Compliance e-learning courses through Integrity International. Human Rights are a key component of the first module, Code of Business Ethics. The program is administered by Integrity International and allows us to reach our employees regardless of their physical location. Participation is conducted on an individual basis – and employees must pass an on-line examination to achieve certification. Statistical data is sent t our Human Resources Department on a monthly basis. In 2018, a total of 486 Ethics Training Modules were successfully completed through Integrity International inclusive of: EEO and Workplace Conduct for Managers, Preventing Sexual Harassment, Code of Business Ethics, Human Rights, Global Mutual Respect, Combatting Bribery, Antitrust and Insider Trading. Represented were employees from Australia, Dubai, Abu Dhabi, Indonesia, Iraq, Sudan, Uganda and Cyprus. Courses are mandatory and completion is tracked electronically. Training modules relating to Human Rights included: § Fair Labor Practices Management Awareness § Fair Labor Practices Awareness § Combating Trafficking in Persons (CTiP) Train the Trainer § Combating Trafficking in Persons (CTiP) Awareness § Essentials of Leadership § Fair Labor Train the Trainer § GCCS Management Development Program (MDP) § Litigation and Dispute Management in the Middle East: The Insider's View § Compensation and Benefits Forum § Code of Business Ethics We also incorporate UN Global Compact awareness into our new employee orientation programs and annual training plan: using the 10 principles and our communication on progress as the program foundation. Our goal here is to ensure that UNGC is understood and practiced by all employees. UNGC – Communication on Progress – 2019 2 Gulf Catering Company has worked in challenging and remote locations throughout the Middle East, Africa, Australia and Asia since 2003. We currently employ 3,317 employees in 13 countries, representing 66 nationalities. Many of our employees are from developing countries: representing a challenge in ensuring proper recruitment, hiring, work conditions and accommodation of staff members is adhered to at all levels of our organization. Our HR Manager personally conducts surveillance interviews with employees to ensure that they have been properly represented by legitimate agencies. Our Australia operations are focused are signed agreements with indigenous tribes that ensure fixed entry-level positions for non-skilled community members. We guarantee job skills training as part of our community citizenship. In our Iraq operations we have 73% local hire employees. This number dropped somewhat since 2015 (75%) as oil companies scaled back projects as a result of the decrease in oil prices. Between 2018 and 2019 we have an increase of 3%. Our Sudan operations represent 82 percent local hire. And our project in Abyei, Sudan represents a local employee rate of 74%. Article 26 of the United Nations Internationally Proclaimed Human Rights forms a key pillar of our Corporate Social Responsibility Program. CSR Strategy Our strategy is to move from ‘informing’ and ‘responding’ to ‘involving’ stakeholders in CSR communication itself. We are focusing on expanding the role of stakeholders in corporate CSR communication processes to build legitimacy, a positive reputation and lasting stakeholder relationships. Our projects also create a type of Multiplier Effect, whereby one project or activity has multiple impacts. Careful stakeholder mapping has been conducted by each of our business units. Stakeholders were identified and their level of impact assessed. From here, we engage stakeholders at all levels and develop CSR projects, or participate in their projects. In doing do – a clear picture of what resources we have to offer and how we can make the best CSR impact emerges. For example: We are involved in remote site construction – so we can help build, and protect the environment We are a catering and food procurement company – so we can provide food and influence human rights and labor practices of our suppliers We operate our employee camp kitchens in Abyei by composting kitchen waste from produce and use it to fertilize our camp kitchen gardens Our business requires an internationally trained team – so we can hire and train local employees UNGC – Communication on Progress – 2019 3 Logistics is a key element of each of our projects – so we can extend these resources to support CSR initiatives We combine hands on participation of our staff members, education of children and protection of the environment in one project. We support Emirates Environmental Group (WWF) beach cleanup in Dubai. The beach is a protected nesting ground of the Hawkbill Turtle. Our employees collect trash that has washed ashore from the Gulf, including fishing nets, plastics, wood, and debris that prevent the turtles from coming ashore and nesting. Areas of CSR Engagement that leverage our core competencies include: People (human rights, labor) Environment (recycling, cleanup and tree planting) Society (education, aid and disaster relief, training) People Partnership’ captures the true spirit of our organization. In our relationships with clients, with each other, with suppliers and business partners, integrity is our foremost standard of conduct; we strive to treat all stakeholders with respect and dignity. We strive to find solutions by looking at the issues together. Employees have the same rights regardless of where they are employed, and 100% compliance is mandated. Our UN and Oil & Gas clients assess KPIs that are i n c o r p o r a t e d i n t o o u r o w n p e r f o r m a n c e i n d i c a t o r s . I f t h e r e i s a c o n f l i c t , t h e m o re stringent is applied. Our direction: We will respect our people and encourage their development and training We aim to be a firm that is fully supportive of a diverse workforce including both gender and ethnicity. We will continue to promote equality and diversity and always consider the health and wellbeing and the work-life balance of our people We aim to empower our people; we will consult and provide two-way communication for all matters right across the firm We will recognize individual contributions and reward our people fairly We ensure that our labor force – and that of our suppliers does not exploit child labor We support Human Rights Environment Environmental, Social and Governance targets are mandated by our parent company, however operational implementation provides for the establishment of KPIs based on the countries in which we operate. KPIs must be in line with corporate/global guidelines, regardless of location. UNGC – Communication on Progress – 2019 4 Example: environmental protection applies even in Iraq and Darfur where no legislation is in effect. We still guard against soil contamination, recycle and reduce our footprint. At the remote site-level we provide continuous tree planting in the UAE, Sudan and Iraq. We developed a remote site beautification program of planting to improve the appearance of our camps. In the UAE we have a two-fold environmental approach: supporting the indigenous Ghaf tree that does not require extensive watering (depletion of water resources) and the targeted planting of trees, grass and plants at the schools attended by the children of our employees. Recycling is promoted for paper, plastic water bottles and E-Waste. As our projects are all in remote areas with little attention paid to environmental issues, we set the standard and promote environmental protection to our local communities. We are currently reviewing the feasibility of solar power to replace some aspects of generator power at our sites. Total replacement may not be possible, but we can light and power many parts of our camps and heat water using solar power. Society Social & Community Objectives (‘Giving Back to the Community’) We are committed to the communities in which we live and work. We understand the impacts we create on the local community in the everyday running of our business. Our direction: Continue Highfield Awarding body for Compliance of the UK HACCP Certified Training to all Local Nationals with an aim to provide important job skills and opportunities to employees in remote areas We will continue to encourage those employees who like to involve themselves in public and charitable service. We will continue to give our time and expertise for free to local community groups and voluntary organizations. We will aim to build long-term relationships with our suppliers and support small and local businesses. In our charitable giving we aim to work together with charities and create a partnership that is in tune with our business values. We ensure one major project per year that we self-fund and self-perform. Our latest projects (Darfur School Refurbishment and Al Bareeq Computer Learning Center) are described below: UNGC – Communication on Progress – 2019 5 Darfur School Refurbishment Projects As an employer of 227 Sudanese personnel in support of our United Nations Food Rations contracts, we realize the importance not only of providing wages to our employees, but to ensuring the well-being and future opportunities of their families when we are no longer in Darfur. Employee buy-in and loyalty are key elements of the safety, security and operational success of our company. By renovating the schools attended by our employee’s children, and the children of the entire community, we achieve this objective. Description GCC SERVICES site management team and local employees select one school per year to be renovated. Schools are in a terrible state of disrepair following years of conflict. They lack floors, windows, electricity, drinking water, toilet facilities, desks, chairs and blackboards. As a result of refugee influx, schools are over-crowded. Despite this, the most amazing thing is that 700 – 960 students attend each school. We believe that if the communities recognize the importance of education and the children are keen to learn, we have a responsibility to do something. Each summer, while the schools are closed for the holiday, we set to work. All work is done by our employees and volunteers, local suppliers and tradesmen are directly contracted, and our personnel oversee all payments and work. This ensures that dedicated funds are spent where intended, and that we ensure a multiplier effect for our CSR funds: Our local employees take great pride in working for us and in bringing this help to their communities Local chiefs are included and able to take credit for the development of the school system Local suppliers build desks and chairs, construct walls, install windows, paint the buildings, install electricity, set up drinking water cisterns, and build toilets. School Opening Day The school is completed within a 6-8week period, and children are welcomed back to a new facility by local officials, GCC SERVICES personnel and community members. Remarkable here is that the community takes such pride in these schools, that the opening ceremony is a major event, with students wearing new uniforms, officials making welcoming speeches and everyone thoroughly enjoying the day. For GCC’s project management team, it is a day of pride. Our team members work long, hard days in Darfur, and the school projects are added duties. Yet this effort is best summed up by our project team thanking us for giving them the opportunity to do something important. Objectives Add classrooms to the building Put in floors Plaster walls UNGC – Communication on Progress – 2019 6 Add window shutters Manufacture steel desks and chairs (wood is eaten by termites) Install blackboards Install drinking water Install toilets Paint the facility Engage local employees Build partnership between local employees, communities and our company Ensure a sustainable contribution to the education of children Ensure that funds are well-spent and overheads are eliminated Beneficiaries 700 – 960 students Local businesses and contractors Teachers, education officials Tribal leadership and government officials Our local national employees The United Nations (GCC is the Contractor) Community and families of the children GCC expats who derive a sense of pride in involvement GCC SERVICES – as loyal communities and employees result in less theft of company assets and enhanced security through community buy-in Inception GCC SERVICES began the school renovation program in 2015 as a means of giving back to our employees and their communities. We recognized that giving money was not the answer – but education was. We began with the 2015 renovation of a 960-student school in El Geneina, Darfur. The program was such a success that we followed with the 903 student boys school in El Fasher in 2016. Our 2017 choice of schools was a 903-student girls school in El Fasher (to ensure that we equally supported the education of girls). Timeline Each project is started and completed within a 2-month timeframe Key Milestones Each school is a milestone in itself. From beginning to end, we allot no more than 2 months to ensure that work is completed during the school holidays. Implementing Partners We self-perform the school renovation projects. This is done with the support and encouragement of the local community. All materials, tradesmen and work is contracted through the local community – further adding an economic injection into the community. There is no bureaucracy, no middlemen, and no diversion of funds. UNGC – Communication on Progress – 2019 7 Al Fasher Girls School before repairs El Fasher Girls School after repairs This was our third school rehabilitation project in Africa. UNGC – Communication on Progress – 2019 8 Al Bareeq Computer Learning Center In 2018, GCC SERVICES’ legal officer Zena Hamwi proposed a key CSR project for 2018. Zena’s mother, Roula Alajeh founded Bareeq Education and Development in Amman, Jordan in 2011. Objective Its goal is to address the needs of Syrian, Palestinian and Iraqi refugees residing in Jordanian refugee camps. Bareeq Education and Development seeks to provide opportunities for refugees, allowing them to create new lives and become part of the societies in which they are living – freeing them of the reliance on refugee charity organizations. Description G C C S e r v i c e s s e l e c t e d t h e e s t a b l i s h m e n t o f a c o m p u t e r le a r n i n g c e n t e r i n A m m a n as its project. Zena prepared a list of material needs and Shahid Shaikh (GCC SERVCIES’ IT Manager) reviewed the equipment. Equipment including an internet router, tables, chairs, laptops, a projector and a white board were purchased. Zena, her mother, and volunteers set up the center, hired instructors and identified volunteers. The project targets the needs of women and children, providing computer training, job skills and business set-up mentoring. Beneficiaries Women in the refugee camps cannot work, so the project gives them the opportunity to identify and work towards a future. The women participate in courses including computer literacy, administrative skills (Microsoft Office etc.), and Website design. Women’s classes are taught by a female refugee from Syria who holds a Bachelor’s degree in IT and was a computer teacher in a Syrian middle school. Women learning to use a computer Children are avid learners and the access to computers and skilled instructors provides them with a social atmosphere of learning and the ability to build positive goals. Boys and girls are educated together. They are taught basic computer use UNGC – Communication on Progress – 2019 9 by a volunteer who is studying medicine at university and has taken several computer courses from recognized institutions like Cisco. An added bonus for the children is their access to multilingual learning in Arabic, French and English. Eager children all looking towards the future Inception Starting in April 2018, volunteers worked tirelessly to identify a rental location for the computer center, select the best equipment, install the internet connectivity, paint the center, assemble the work tables, put up the whiteboard and create a proper learning atmosphere. Timeline The center was set up in 60 days The computer center opened on May 28, 2018 and is open 6 days a week in the summer months and will soon expand to 7 days per week. Finding interested students was easy. Women who cannot work in the refugee camps were keen to learn how to use computers. Special classes were created to teach them how to set up web sites, and develop small businesses. Children already enrolled in refugee education programs were eager to have the opportunity to learn about computers. Classes are full and the center is a place where refugees can develop a future. Key Milestones There are currently over 350 participants. Female participants range from ages13 to 60. Key milestones are something we had never imagined in setting up the computerlearning center. They involve not the creation of the physical facility, the number of UNGC – Communication on Progress – 2019 10 participants or the generosity of volunteers, but rather the stories of people. Ahmed’s story best captures a ‘milestone.’ Ahmed is an 11-year old Syrian boy from Aleppo. He has been diagnosed with a severe case of ADHD and trauma as a result of the terrible circumstances he and his family lived through in the destruction of Aleppo. Their escape brought them to the refugee center in Amman, where he was sent back to school. But his teachers complained about his disruptive behavior in class. The refugee center was unable to find a psychologist to treat him. Surprisingly, he was sent to the computer center children’s class. His demeanor has changed completely. He loves computers, and eagerly does all of his school homework on the computers. He engages with his classmates and is respectful of his teacher. Ahmed (left), a model student Ahmed’s story is only one of many. But it is representative of the many young boys and girls, and women who are looking to the future. Evaluation of the Program GCC SERVICES is very proud of our employees and the support they have given to the Bareeq Computer Lab. It has made a great difference in the lives of so many refugees, and is quickly outgrowing its physical location. Very few refugee families have access to computers, so we have literally opened the world to the lab participants. This program deserves continued support and it also serves as a model that we can set up in any of the countries in which we operate. It lends itself to our CSR Objectives of supporting education, community development and women. UNGC – Communication on Progress – 2019 11 Local Employee Training As a result of the knowledge and skills acquired by our employees, GCC SERVICES went on to prepare our Sudan food warehouses for ISO 22000 certification. Obtaining certification of our warehouse in Sudan’s Darfuri region was difficult. TUV Nord of Dubai took the challenge and our Director of QHSE accompanied the auditors to Darfur. We further certified our Khartoum food grade warehouse in 2017. Local employees in Sudan are provided with mini-bus transport to and from their workplace, mid-day meals, water, uniforms, job-related protective equipment and safety shoes. Our corporate position is not simply to adhere to minimum requirements – but to provide the communities in which we are working with employment opportunities, training, certification and skills that ensure their future. Construction Trades Training Our construction department is heavily focused on the building of warehousing facilities in the Ivory Coast and Ghana. In doing so, there is a need for local workers that, if positive, provides much-needed community income. International-level construction skills and knowledge of work-site safety are often not available. Rather than bring in ex-pat workers, we engage the local community. Employee candidate s k i l l s a r e a s s e s s e d , a n d a d e v e l o p m e n t p l a n i s c r e a t e d t o t e a c h a n d t r a in t h e m . Course participants gain knowledge, skills and enhance their work lives. Participants receive certificates for courses including: § American Standard Medic First Aid Training (2-year validity) § Steel Fixing § Carpentry § Plumbing § Electrical Works § Masonry § Welding & Plumbing § Driver Safety Welder and Steel Fixing Training for Employees in Ghana UNGC – Communication on Progress – 2019 12 Gulf Catering Company has adapted the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and US Government guidelines on Trafficking in Human Beings (TIPs). We adhere to and exceed international regulations on Trafficking in Human Beings. Our contract performance is constantly monitored and inspected by our auditors, clients and audit agencies. Likewise, our supplier audits extend the same surveillance: ensuring that we are not buying from suppliers who abuse human rights. As a part of our recruitment and employee orientation training, new staff members are informed of their rights in their native language. Contracts defining salary and benefits are issued to each employee. Gulf Catering Company pays all recruitment fees, visa, airfare, travel, lodging and meals for our employees. We also pay all social taxes, provide paid holidays, bereavement leave, sick leave and pay indemnity to departing employees. Employee orientation includes individual human rights and direct reporting access that is independent of direct line management. Daily training modules cover all aspects of job performance and a Trafficking in Persons (TIPS) module that reinforces employee human rights. Labor Camps and Lodgings are routinely inspected to ensure that each employee receives a minimum of 55 square feet of personal space, adequate caloric intake, no cost medical care, a free monthly hygiene kit, and free laundry service. Employees are issued 6 complete sets of company uniforms, 2 pairs of safety shoes, winter weather clothing and job-related personal protective equipment (PPE). As required, body armor is provided for employees working in conflict zones such as Iraq. All employees retain their own passports. At our employee camps in Darfur and Abyei, employee rooms have beds, desks, refrigerator, TV and in-room bathrooms. All linens and hygiene items are provided by the company. Our laundry is operated onsite. Employee clothing and uniforms are cleaned and pressed at no cost to the employee. Meals are prepared on site in the facility kitchens and provided to employees at no cost. Working hours are governed by the labor law of the country in which we are operating or our own corporate policy, with the more stringent policy being applied if compliance is unclear. Religious holidays and Ramadan hours are respected. Our camps also feature small mosques or prayers rooms. Midday meals are provided for local employees at no cost. Employees in Iraq and Sudan are paid in compliance with local labor laws: ensuring that social taxes and allowances are a part of their salary package. Gulf Catering Company has adapted a no-tolerance policy regarding violations of human rights. From direct line supervisors, to project managers, QHSE and corporate HR: all management personnel are held directly responsible for the welfare of employees. In 2018, there were no complaints alleging discrimination. At our Dubai Headquarters, our CEO chairs a junior employee council meeting. All council members are non-management level and represent every department in the UNGC – Communication on Progress – 2019 13 company. A target of 3 key improvement areas (whereby results are 70% positive or less) is taken from the company’s independently administered annual survey and serves as the council’s objective. Our 2018 Employee Satisfaction Survey was completed by 79% of our Dubai staff members. Areas for improvement become the tasking of the employee council who focus on work life and job satisfaction. A locked, CEO Mail Box is prominently placed so that every employee can voice issues, either directly or anonymously. Additionally, all employees are provided with our parent company HOTLINE access. Quarterly town hall meetings are conducted as an open forum with the CEO and HQ staff. Gulf Catering Company is ISO 9001:2015, ISO 22000:2005, ISO 18001:2007 and ISO 14001:2015 certified. Our ISO audit systems ensure proper living and working conditions for our staff and subcontractors. As transition to the new series of ISO 9001 and 14001 audits, we extended audit criteria to start first with leadership: querying them to ensure that they are aware of and practicing compliance. ***** UNGC – Communication on Progress – 2019 14 UN GLOBAL COMPACT Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Gulf Catering Company headquarters and management personnel are required to participate in mandatory Ethics and Compliance Courses through Integrity International. Employees participate electronically and are required to pass the course examination – the process of which ensures compliance and provides the foundation of our zero-tolerance policy regarding breach of conduct. ON-LINE ETHICS TRAINING – 2018 Course Number of trained personnel Antitrust 31 Code of Business Ethics 43 Combatting Bribery in Business 39 Conflicts of Interest 96 FCPA Anti-Bribery 34 Global Data Protection 86 Government Procurement 29 Insider Trading 102 UK and EU Competition Law 25 Gulf Catering Company respects and protects the right of employees to freely associate and form collective bargaining groups as allowed by local labor laws in the countries in which we operate. We do not discriminate against employees involved in activities of association or collective bargaining. While the majority of our work is performed in the Middle East, where labor organizations are not common, we do impose International Labor Organization guidelines within our organization. Such guideline compliance is mandatory through our contracts with governments, international agencies, NGOs and global corporations. Our Sudan employees have collective bargaining rights under local labor law. Our Sudanese employees have labor councils and benefit from a very comprehensive government allowance system for local employees. UNGC – Communication on Progress – 2019 15 Our Global Employment Policy commits us to not tolerate any inhumane treatment of people working for us, including any form of forced labor, physical punishment or other abuse. Work contracts clearly define employee entitlements, including salary and its payment date, vacation, indemnity and medical entitlements. Gulf Catering Company promotes workplace equality and seeks to eliminate all forms of unfair discrimination. Equitable processes for recruitment, promotion and remuneration are in place, which ensure employment and promotion on the basis of job requirements and merit, and which support the establishment of a diverse workforce and ensure that all employees and employment applicants are treated equally irrespective of race, color, sex, sexual orientation, religion or belief, family circumstances, political opinion, age, nationality or disability. Our Sudan and Abyei teams are key example of workplace equality. While our primary work is comprised of warehousing – an area of work where only local males apply, many female community members are proudly earning wages in administrative and camp support services. Culturally, the women often segregate themselves from the males – but we have trained them together, and the women achieve HACCP certification along with the men. They continue to develop their skills and progress. Employee training is ongoing: allowing us to identify abilities and to promote from within the organization. It is not uncommon to find that employees who began with the company have risen to supervisory or management roles. Gulf Catering Company became certified by Highfield Awarding Body for Compliance in the UK to conduct, test and certify HACCP training. In 2017, a total of 8 QHSE Managers were certified Tutors through Highfield Awarding Body for Compliance. This allows a greater reach in training employees in Iraq and Africa – areas where training personnel are scarce. By adding Food Safety HACCP training and certification, we provide important job skills and opportunities to employees in remote areas. To date we have trained and certified: Sudan Darfur – Level 1 Food Safety – 388 employees Sudan Abyei – Level 1 Food Safety – 83 employees Abu Dhabi Level 2 Food Safety – 22 employees Abu Dhabi – Level 3 Food Safety – 5 employees Abu Dhabi – Level 4 Food Safety – 1 employee UAE Dubai corporate office – HSE Level 1 – 22 employees Gulf Catering Company’s focus is on a safe and productive working environment for our employees. QHSE awareness and training are a daily part of our work environment. Gulf Catering Company includes information on employee rights to associate and bargain in our employee orientation program and on-going training program. Employees elect their own representative to management on location and they receive direct QA/ QC corporate access. UNGC – Communication on Progress – 2019 16 We strongly believe that children belong in school. Gulf Catering Company carefully screens all employees prior to employment. We do not employ personnel under the age of 18, nor do we accept suppliers who employ children. Children are not allowed on site, both for their safety and to remove any doubt about their working. In countries where the minimum employment age is higher than 18 years of age, we adhere to local laws. Vendor Selection Process By implementing ISO 9001 standards, all vendors are vetted prior to engaging in supply contracts. Vetting by our QHSE Team involves plant / facility inspection, verification of company registrations and licenses, ISO certifications, product traceability, and product manufacturing ingredient lists. A comprehensive food product supplier inspection format has been designed specifically for our United Nations food rations contracts. Our Quality Control team visits all premises of food products of animal origin or key product lines before our procurement team issues purchase orders to a supplier company. Child labor presence is audited by examining employee records and visual observation of supplier factories and warehouses. We also engage TUV Nord and SGS to conduct audits of manufacturing facilities. Identifying signs of labor abuse is key to our audit process. Employee records are reviewed, and visual inspections of working conditions are conducted to ensure compliance on the part of our suppliers. In our UAE operations, compliance with government-approved accommodation units is required. Here, the government has stepped in to ensure that each employee has life support at a level in agreement with international standards on human rights. Facilities are continuously inspected by our Quality Assurance auditors and by government auditors. Inspections are frequently unannounced to ensure that a true picture is made. ***** UNGC – Communication on Progress – 2019 17 UN Global Compact Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Gulf Catering Company received ISO 14001:2004 certification through Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance on November 12, 2011. In December 2013, we became re-certified in the UAE. We undergo surveillance audits annually. Gulf Catering Company implemented a ‘Go-Green’ program in 2011. Although small, we push the reduction of printing and use of paper, and we recycle printer cartridges. Plastic water bottles have been eliminated and replaced by 25-liter water coolers. We started this initiative by providing each employee with a personal thermos. Employees provide their own coffee cups, resulting in the removal of disposable cups. Our corporate newsletter is now issued quarterly, but its’ focus remains on Health, Safety and Environmental topics. Environmental issues have covered Recycling, Reducing Paper Use, Tree-planting and Safety issues. Monthly safety bulletins are issued by our QA Department and QHSE reporting is including in each country’s monthly financial operations review. Our country operations in Iraq, Uganda, Sudan and Abyei have each developed their own environmental programs, from recycling, to tree-planting and water conservation. In Nyala, Darfur and Abyei staff members have focused on planting of trees and kitchen gardens. Compost areas have been created for kitchen waste and the compost is then used to fertilize trees and the gardens. Abyei Sustainable Kitchen Garden GCC SERVICES’ United Nations food rations contract in Abyei, Sudan was awarded in 2015. Abyei is a demilitarized zone between Sudan and South Sudan. At the start of contract, conditions were harsh for our team: poor accommodation, lack of rest and relaxation amenities and a food supply that was trucked in from the Port of Sudan. Our camp chef lacked fresh herbs, vegetables and fruit. And our staff, who worked long days on duty rotations of 10 weeks in and 3 weeks out of Abyei, were challenged to keep morale up. With only mealtime to look forward to, our corporate team and the project manager came up with a unique solution: if the fresh herbs, vegetables and fruits were not available as desired – they would grow what they needed. While this sounds as if it is a small ‘issue’, it reflects the development of a complete environmental eco-system. UNGC – Communication on Progress – 2019 18 Soil was not ideal, and required fertilization. Here the team created a composting area where kitchen waste from fruits and vegetables was placed in a pit and allowed to decompose. This recycling effort eliminated the need to place refuse in a dumpster for disposal, reducing the carbon footprint of waste removal trucks and incinerators, and enriched the soil for future use. Seeds were needed, so the project manager Hassan Bittar, brought seeds back from Khartoum and Lebanon. Team members now do the same when they go home on R&R. No pesticides are used and the project is 100% ‘green.’ Growing started slowly with fresh herbs, some tomatoes and peppers. As items to be grown are identified by the chef and our employees, they are planted and grown. The GCC SERVICES kitchen garden is now a self-sustaining oasis. Compost Bin – made from recycled materials Beans, Peas and Jackfruit tree Tomatoes Aubergines UNGC – Communication on Progress – 2019 19 Guava Lemon Trees Banana Plant Cassava Plant Cassava root (harvested) Watermelons UNGC – Communication on Progress – 2019 20 GCC SERVICES' Abyei Sudan Kitchen Garden Category Type Qty – kgs Cucumber 40 Okra 55 Vegetables Pea / Bean 35 Drumstick 30 Aubergine 40 Tomato 60 Fruits Guava 25 Watermelon 140 Coriander 6 Greens Lettuce 20 Benefits of this project include: DIY attitude and creative thinking Tasty fresh & nutritious food Absence of pesticides /fertilizers apart from domestic manure provides healthier organic products Sense of appreciation on the bounty of team efforts Stress relief while working on remote site operations Greenery and ample shade Working away from home and family, having a communal kitchen garden generates a sense of home as a family activity within the team Rather than relying on fruits and vegetables commercially grown, trucked, seafreighted and then again trucked to Abyei – the team now enjoys healthy choices from a peaceful garden – which is not only environmentally sustainable – but also sustains their need for calm in a very rough environment. Earth Day events take place to commemorate environmental appreciation. Trees were planted in Dubai, Sudan-Darfur, Iraq and Abu Dhabi. In 2015, we began a relationship with the Emirates Marine Environmental Group (EMEG) a WWF organization that continues. EMEG operates a wildlife sanctuary in the United Arab Emirates. Participation in their environmental cleanup actions is an annual CSR project. We visit the sanctuary and clean debris from the beaches where the endangered hawk-bill turtle will come to nest. Algae clinging to the mangrove roots is pulled by hand, allowing the mangrove trees to breathe and grow. The algae can be dropped on an oil spill in the sea and it absorbs 3 times its weight oil. Another added benefit in aiding the mangrove growth is that beach soil erosion is reduced. Our team participated in clearing a portion of the mangrove swamp of transplanted saplings that had not thrived in the environment. UNGC – Communication on Progress – 2019 21 Beach Cleanup in preparation for Hawksbill Turtle nesting Emirates Marine Environmental Group: Ghantoot Sanctuary Our Construction and Life Support contracts involve both preventative actions and the incorporation of environmentally friendly / recycling initiatives. Examples include the safe processing of waste, fuel overspill basins, recycling of aluminum cans, metals and plastic water bottles, and the use of biodegradable catering materials. Gulf Catering Company gives priority to ISO 14001 qualified suppliers. When sourcing materials and supplies we require a Material Data Safety Sheet (MSDS) that we provide to our clients. Environmental spills or contamination have an immediate reporting requirement. Refueling stations are equipped with spill kits, and fuel storage tanks are enclosed in concrete spill containers capable of holding 110% of the tank contents. Catering Operations feature special cooking oil collection areas and grease traps to prevent soil contamination. Gulf Catering Company has developed waste management charts that include specific handling for each type of domestic and industrial waste including: batteries, tires, concrete, light bulbs, plastic, aluminum, spent brass, iron, glass, oil soaked clothing and rags, paper, wood, kitchen waste, and chemicals. These charts are distributed to all of our work sites and to our clients. UNGC – Communication on Progress – 2019 22 Employees are furnished with appropriate Personal Protective Equipment such as overalls, gloves, eyeglasses, hearing protection, reflective vests and safety shoes to ensure that anyone coming into contact with Hazardous Materials (HAZMAT) is protected. Training is continuous for both recognizing and responding to environmental incidents. In 2017 our CEO challenged each senior manager traveling from our Dubai HQ to mission sites to conduct a Safety Inspection as one of their Key Performance Indicators. Senior Managers and Directors were provided with an audit worksheet that included key environmental aspects including oil spills, garbage processing and greening of the sites. Findings are presented at management meetings and followup action is monitored. The first-year result of this action was very positive, and has become a key performance indicator for all senior managers visiting sites. ***** UNGC – Communication on Progress – 2019 23 UN Global Compact Anti Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Recognizing the difficulties of employees and clients in the Middle East, Asia and Africa to understand international standards and practices, Gulf Catering Company’s parent company Agility published a comprehensive Code of Business Ethics and Conduct that apply to all group companies and our external relationships. All headquarters and management personnel are required to completed Integrity International on-line, interactive training modules in: Government Procurement (rules and restrictions for contractors involved in government procurement processes) Code of Business Ethics FCPA Anti-Bribery (Foreign Corrupt Practices Act) Combating Bribery in Business (bribery, gifts, entertainment, etc) UK and EU Competition Law Antirust Insider Trading EEO and Workplace Conduct for Managers Privacy and Data Protection UK and EU Competition Law Preventing Sexual Harassment Global Mutual Respect Conflicts of Interest The training is conducted on-line using examples and situational analysis designed to develop understanding and model behavior. Participants must complete an imbedded examination designed to ensure understanding of good business practices. Course participation is mandatory. An electronic transcript of completion and certificate are generated for employee and corporate records. 2018 Ethics Training Code of Combating Conflicts FCPA Global UK and EU AntiGovernment Insider Country Business Bribery in of AntiData Competition trust Procurement Trading Ethics Business Interest Bribery Protection Law Abu Dhabi 0 0 0 6 0 0 0 7 0 Australia 0 0 0 3 0 1 0 4 0 Cyprus 0 1 0 3 1 2 1 3 1 Corporate 3 2 4 23 4 17 5 30 5 France 0 0 0 o 0 1 0 1 0 Indonesia 0 1 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 Iraq 13 20 15 13 16 26 13 11 7 Sudan 15 19 17 42 10 36 8 44 9 UNGC – Communication on Progress – 2019 24 2018 Ethics Training Code of Combating Conflicts FCPA Global UK and EU AntiGovernment Insider Country Business Bribery in of AntiData Competition trust Procurement Trading Ethics Business Interest Bribery Protection Law Uganda 0 0 3 5 3 1 2 2 3 The Anti-trust module focuses on advanced relationships in the business environment. In many cases, we had never thought of situations where our suppliers became our competitors, but in our current environment, with very large contracts at hand, but fewer contracts due to the oil crisis, this is becoming a very real business situation. We now explore the business activities of the companies who have previously been only our supplier. A key example of this changed business environment manifested itself when an approved, and prominent industry supplier in the UAE was found to be adulterating spices with rice and maize powder to increase profits. Our company reacted by undertaking DNA sampling and then providing the results to the Ministry of Health to ensure that the company would provide no future products in the market. To ensure that we equip our team members with more advanced business skills in the detection of food adulteration, we have organized a training module by EUROFINS Laboratory in Germany to impart observational skills in detecting food adulteration and a more concise understanding of the use of DNA testing. Our corporate Code of Business Ethics and Conduct mirrors the UN Global Compact and specifically addresses Employee conflicts of interest, gifts, meals and entertainment in the course of interacting with clients, suppliers, subcontractors and competitors. Our work in emerging or conflict nations requires an understanding of how employees are to conduct themselves – knowing full well that such situations will arise. The document further addresses business with third parties and anti-trust compliance including: Conducting Business with Suppliers, Vendors, Jobbers, Agents, Consultants, and Customers Conducting Business with Governments Antitrust Compliance Agreements among Competitors Monopolization A new revision was issued in 2015 followed by extensive employee training. The updates include: Updated Corporate Alert Line numbers and contact information to report suspected violations Adjustments to the Gifts, Meals and Entertainment section highlighting the difference between acceptable hospitality and acts that can be considered bribes in different countries where we operate A revised anti-corruption section that reflects more stringent standards that were set by a number of anti-corruption laws, including some with broadranging extraterritorial reach. The revised anti-corruption section reflects UNGC – Communication on Progress – 2019 25 what is “as a minimum” acceptable to our global customers as well as an increasing number of local customers. Our Corporate obligations towards unilateral and multilateral trade sanctions and our commitment to respect them while conducting our business Employee orientation and training covers real life situations encountered by employees and provides explanatory responses that demonstrate compliance with corporate policy. A series of ‘What would you do if……’ scenarios provide guidance. Gulf Catering Company has a zero tolerance anti-corruption policy. The first page of our corporate Code of Business Ethics and Conduct clearly specifies a hotline number for clarifications, employee concerns and reporting. All communications are considered privileged to ensure employee trust. Gulf Catering Company and our parent company Agility Logistics are dedicated to our Code of Business Ethics and Conduct. We staunchly defend our record of performance and strive to ensure international compliance at corporate levels. Our audit processes include internal and external audits. External audits include ISO 9001 compliance and Ernst & Young third-party financial audits. ***** UNGC – Communication on Progress – 2019 26
