Sustainability Report 2018 Quick access 05 Company Portrait 10 Strategy & Management 19 Business & Compliance 25 Product & Innovation 33 Production & Supply Chain 46 Employees & Employment 58 Society & Corporate Responsibility 63 Targets 68 Appendix Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility We have laid down the key topics and principles of our sustainability strategy in our Sustainability Commitments 2030, which are in turn aligned with the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). To underscore our commitment, we joined the United Nations Global Compact (UN GC) in 2018. We have declared our express commitment to its ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour standards, environmental protection, and corruption prevention and will take these into account and promote them within our corporate strategy as well as in all our business activities. Climate protection: intensive research on CO2 reduction Climate protection is at the heart of our efforts to support sustainability. We have made a commitment to accept our share of the worldwide responsibility to limit the Dr. Bernd Scheifele, Chairman of the Managing Board global rise in temperature to below 2°C and to promote the transition to a low-carbon economy, while also supporting the social and economic development of the counIntroduction tries in which we operate. We are the first company in the cement sector to have the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) verify that our CO2 reduction targets for 2030 conform to the requirements of the Paris Agreement. Cutting our CO2 emissions and handling natural resources considerately are priorities for all our business lines. Our actions to achieve these objectives include constantly Ladies and Gentlemen, increasing the proportion of alternative raw materials and fuels, continuously optimising our production processes, and investing in innovations at product and techIn 2018, HeidelbergCement achieved new record figures for sales volumes, revenue, nology level. We consider the entire value chain – from the quarry to the recycling of and profit for the financial year. Never in our 145-year history have we sold more the building materials. By 2030, we will invest 80% of our research and development cement, concrete, sand, and gravel. Having become one of the world’s largest building budget in the development of sustainable products. With our active involvement in materials manufacturers, we know that sustainable economic success is only possible various research projects to investigate methods of capturing and recycling CO2, we when it goes hand in hand with responsible business management designed to secure are leaders in our industry. Our vision is to offer a CO2-neutral concrete by 2050 at the future viability of the company. Sustainability is therefore an integral element of the latest. our Group strategy. 02 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Responsibility for the environment and society Cutting our CO2 emissions and handling natural resources By taking on a responsibility for the environment and society as well as reducing the negative effects of our activities as much as possible, we are minimising the risks faced considerately are priorities by our business. This is achieved by following a holistic approach that is valid for all for all our business lines. our business lines and Group areas. Our sustainability strategy focuses on local responsibility – towards our employees and our neighbours as well as the environment – at more than 3,000 locations in around 60 countries worldwide. Another of our central concerns lies in investigating and supporting biodiversity HeidelbergCement: well positioned for sustainable success in quarries and extraction sites – both during operation and in subsequent use. In December 2018, the final round of our fourth international research and education HeidelbergCement is globally well positioned, and we are confident about 2019. Our competition, the Quarry Life Award, took place. Teams from 26 countries participated goal is clear: we want to maintain our profitable growth and create added value for and submitted over 300 project ideas. These extremely wide-ranging projects present our stakeholders on a sustainable basis – for our shareholders, customers, employees, HeidelbergCement with new insights into biodiversity in quarries and offer ways to suppliers, and business partners, for society, and for the benefit of the environment. support this even more effectively. Therefore, we will continue to integrate economic as well as environmental and social objectives into our business strategy and our management remuneration system. We look forward to your continuing support on this journey. Putting people center stage: occupational safety and human rights The issue of occupational health and safety is another top priority at HeidelbergYours sincerely, Cement and stems from our key corporate values. We work continuously to minimise the risks for our employees, contractors, and third parties. In 2018, we decreased the accident frequency rate across the Group Dr. Bernd Scheifele by 12%. We will maintain our focus on prevention and accident avoidance in order Chairman of the Managing Board to achieve our goal of “zero harm”, which we also reiterated in our Sustainability Commitments 2030. We are committed to respecting human rights. On this basis, we commenced a Groupwide human rights risk analysis at the end of 2017. In addition to the working conditions of our employees, it also covers responsibility for the people living near our sites and the selection of suppliers and customers. 03 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Contents How to find your way through the report 05  Company 10 Strategy & 19  Business & Portrait Management Compliance 06 Organisational structure 11 Figures, data, facts 20 Figures, data, facts To make it easier for you to navigate through the 07 Key  business figures at 12 Vision & mission 21 Legal compliance report, we have added links to this PDF file. In the grey a glance 12 Sustainability Commitments 2030 21 Business performance bar at the top edge of the page, you can jump to the 08 Value chain 13 Responsibility & organisation 22 Compliance management 09 Vertical integration 14 Challenges & strategy 24 Risk and opportunity individual chapters from any page. The thin green 15 Stakeholder engagement management bar shows you which chapter you are currently in. 17 Materiality analysis The icons operate similarly to those on a website: Go forward/back Table of contents Starting page 25  Product & 33 Production & 46  Employees & Innovation Supply Chain Employment You can also directly access the chapters from the 26 Figures, data, facts 34 Figures, data, facts 47 Figures, data, facts table of contents. In each chapter, the column at the 27 Focus on customers 35 Environmental management 48 Principles far left contains a linked overview of the sub-chapters. 27 Research & technology 36 Energy & climate protection 48 Employment & 39 Alternative fuels co-determination The following symbol in the text is also useful: 40 Land use & biodiversity 49 Remuneration policy & 42 Local environmental impact working time regulation Link to the specified page or website 44 Management of supplier 50 Occupational health & safety relations 53 Human resources development 55 Diversity management 58  Society & 63 Targets 68 Appendix Corporate Responsibility 59 Figures, data, facts 64 Strategy & Management 69 Key figures 60 Social responsibility 64 Business & Compliance 77 About this report 61 Social  engagement at our 65 Product & Innovation 78 GRI content index locations 65 Production & Supply Chain 84 Imprint 62 Local conflicts of interest 66 Employees & Employment Cover image: Aggregates site near Peebles/Ohio, USA. 67 Society & Corporate Responsibility 04 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Company Portrait 06 Organisational structure 07 Key business figures at a glance 08 Value chain 09 Vertical integration Image: Construction of HeidelbergCement’s new headquarters in Heidelberg, Germany. 05 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Organisational structure HeidelbergCement is divided into five geographical Group areas: Western and Southern Europe, Northern and Eastern Europe-Central Asia, North America, Asia-Pacific, and Africa-Eastern Mediterranean Basin (see organisation chart for breakdown of countries). Our global trading activities, especially the trading of cement, clinker, and solid fuels, are pooled together in the sixth Group area, Group Services. Within the geographical Group areas, we have divided our activities into four business lines: cement, aggregates, ready-mixed concrete-asphalt, and service-joint ventures-other. Western and Northern and Eastern North America Asia-Pacific Africa-Eastern Group Services Southern Europe Europe-Central Asia Mediterranean Basin Belgium, France, Albania, BosniaCanada, USA Bangladesh, Brunei, Benin, Burkina Germany, Italy, Herzegovina, China, India, Faso, DR Congo, Netherlands, Spain, Bulgaria, Croatia, Indonesia, Malaysia, Egypt, Gambia, United Kingdom Czechia, Denmark, Singapore, Thailand Ghana, Liberia, Estonia, Georgia, Mauritania, Morocco, Greece, Hungary, Australia Mozambique, Iceland, Kazakhstan, Sierra Leone, Latvia, Lithuania, South Africa, Norway, Poland, Tanzania, Togo Romania, Russia, Sweden, Slovakia Israel, Palestine, Turkey Cement, aggregates, ready-mixed concrete-asphalt, service-joint ventures-other 06 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Key business figures at a glance + 4.7% + 24.6% -1.9% Total Group revenue Group share of profit Number of employees Increase from 2017 to 2018 Increase from 2017 to 2018 Decrease from 2017 to 2018 Figures in € millions Figures in € millions 18,075 17,266 1,143 15,166 60,424 59,054 57,939 918 657 2016* 2017 2018 2016* 2017 2018 2016** 2017** 2018** Growth in sales volumes in all business lines and The increase of 24.6% in the Group share of profit The 1.9% decrease in the number of employees price increases contributed to a rise of 4.7% in was due to higher income from the optimisation results mainly from the realisation of synergies Group revenue in an operationally challenging of the portfolio as well as lower restructuring, and efficiency improvements in sales and adminenvironment. interest, and tax expenses. istration, as well as location optimisations. * Italcementi fully consolidated since 1 July 2016. ** Number of employees at the end of December of each year. 07 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Value chain Raw materials Production Customers – Extraction – Cement – Public-sector projects – Aggregates – Commercial projects – Concrete – Private customers – Asphalt The raw materials needed for producing our buildOur business is based on the production of cement We supply our products for public-sector and coming materials – limestone for cement production as and aggregates, the two essential raw materials mercial projects as well as to private customers. well as sand, gravel, and hard rock – are generally for manufacturing concrete. extracted from our own quarrying sites. Research and development – CO2 reduction The aim of our research activities is to provide cus– Development of alternative clinkers tomers with innovative products and to minimise – Product innovation energy consumption and CO2 emissions by improv– Recycling ing processes and creating new formulations. Procurement – Raw materials In 2018, HeidelbergCement procured goods and – Energy services with a total value of around €12.6 bil– Logistics lion, with 39% being spent on energy and raw – Maintenance materials. 08 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Vertical integration HeidelbergCement is one of the world’s largest companies for building materials. The core activities of HeidelbergCement encompass the production and distribution of cement, aggregates, concrete, and asphalt. This vertical integration strategy is one of our growth drivers. In future, we plan to further integrate our business activities in urban centers in particular. Raw materials Processing into We process some of the cement Aggregates and aggregates into our own Cement core products concrete and asphalt Asphalt Ready-mixed concrete Public-sector clients Commercial clients Private customers Customers/ markets Cement 50% Cement 20% Cement 30% Aggregates 50%–60% Aggregates 20%–25% Aggregates 20%–25% 09 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Strategy & Management 11 Figures, data, facts 12 Vision & mission 12 Sustainability Commitments 2030 13 Responsibility & organisation 14 Challenges & strategy 15 Stakeholder engagement 17 Materiality analysis Image: The Svinesund Bridge between Norway and Sweden. http://bit.ly/Svinesund-EN 10 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility 11 Figures, data, facts Energy efficiency and climate protection p. 15 12 Vision & mission 12 Sustainability 30% Commitments 2030 13 Responsibility & organisation 14 Challenges & strategy 15 Stakeholder engagement 17 Materiality analysis is our targeted reduction in CO2 emissions by 2030 compared with 1990. HeidelbergCement is the first company in the cement sector to have its reduction targets recognised by the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi). Stakeholder dialogue p. 16 f. Industry association for more Through our Sustainability Commitments 2030, we are supporting the UN Sustainable Developsustainability ment Goals. In doing so, we aim to help address On 31 January 2018, HeidelbergCement and eight other leading social, economic, and environmental challenges companies in the cement and concrete industry came together to create the Global Cement and Concrete Association (GCCA). at a global level. They define the principles, main The joint aim is to strengthen the sector’s contribution to components, and objectives of our sustainability sustainable construction and drive forward innovation. strategy until the year 2030. Public affairs p. 17 Dialogue with political decision makers As leading building materials company in Europe, we want to demonstrate how our industry can help to solve societal challenges. One of our areas of focus will be climate protection. 11 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility 11 Figures, data, facts For us, doing business means a lot more than just achieving out12 Vision & mission standing financial results. We also want to act in an environmentally 12 Sustainability and socially responsible manner. This understanding of our company Commitments 2030 13 Responsibility & shapes our sustainability strategy and the Sustainability Commitorganisation ments 2030. 14 Challenges & strategy 15 Stakeholder engagement 17 Materiality analysis Vision and mission We want to continue to grow. In the long term, however, we will only be able to achieve our business goals if we generate added value for society as a whole. We conserve natural resources, as they form the basis of our business activities, and we take our social responsibility at the various company locations and towards our employees seriously. We want to continue providing our emHeidelbergCement operates at more than 3,000 locations worldwide. ployees with a secure income and good qualifications. In our proLocal responsibility is therefore at the heart of our sustainability strategy. duction activities, we focus particularly on ensuring the health and safety of our employees. We want our customers to benefit from the high quality of our products and a close partnership. We Sustainability Commitments 2030 maintain respectful relations with our suppliers and expect them to comply with our sustainability standards. The HeidelbergCement Sustainability Commitments 2030 describe our most important activities in terms of promoting sustainability. Our business activities are characterised by commercial prudence, They are valid throughout the Group and define the principles, the rule of law, and integrity. We promote value creation at our main components, and objectives of our sustainability strategy locations and help to increase prosperity and the quality of life in until the year 2030. emerging economies in particular. By boosting growth, we achieve appropriate dividends and increasing enterprise value for our shareThe principles outlined in the Sustainability Commitments 2030 are holders. Growth and good returns are also the basis for our investas follows: ments in cutting-edge technologies to help protect the climate and – Driving economic strength and innovation the environment. – Achieving excellence in occupational health and safety – Reducing our ecological footprint – Enabling the circular economy – Being a good neighbour – Ensuring compliance and creating transparency 12 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility 11 Figures, data, facts Environmentally and socially responsible ing Board members responsible for the different Group areas in 12 Vision & mission addition to the country managers, who coordinate the measures 12 Sustainability conduct is a crucial part of our business on a national basis, and the line managers at regional and local Commitments 2030 strategy. This is also reflected in the 13 Responsibility & management level. Individual occupational health and safety meaindividual goals of the members of the sures are defined either by Group Health & Safety or the local units, organisation 14 Challenges & strategy Managing Board of HeidelbergCement. depending on their nature and impact. Occupational safety mea15 Stakeholder engagement sures are part of the personal goal agreement for the Managing 17 Materiality analysis Dr. Albert Scheuer Member of the Managing Board Board and the top operations managers in the various countries. Last but not least, each individual employee, contractor, and visitor is responsible for following the occupational safety regulations. Through our Sustainability Commitments 2030, we are supporting the UN Sustainable Development Goals. In doing so, we aim to Environmental protection is an integral element of Heidelberghelp address social, economic, and environmental challenges at a Cement’s business strategy, which is defined by the Managing global level. Board in consultation with the Supervisory Board. The member of www.heidelbergcement.com/en/sustainability-commitments-2030 the Managing Board who is responsible for the topic of sustainability heads the Group Environmental Sustainability Committee. This committee also includes the directors of the Group departments Responsibility & organisation Global Environmental Sustainability and Group Communication & IR, as well as the directors of the Heidelberg Technology Center (HTC), Effective management systems operated by our various business the Competence Center Materials (CCM), and the Competence Cenlines help to ensure a continual process of improvement in accorter Readymix (CCR). The committee’s task is to accelerate the progress dance with our sustainability strategy. Within the framework of of operating activities with regard to sustainability and to position these systems, we have defined areas of responsibility and created HeidelbergCement as a sustainable company. The Supervisory Board structures that support the effective implementation and monitoralso addresses different topics connected with sustainability and ing of the measures we employ to achieve our sustainability targets. environmental protection on a regular basis. These targets focus on occupational health and safety, environmenMore on environmental management: p. 35 tal protection, and compliance. The Global Environmental Sustainability department supports Occupational health and safety is one of our company’s core values, future-oriented activities in the area of environmental sustainability and it is an area for which all management levels at Heidelbergat Group level in a number of ways. These include defining guideCement are accountable. Our occupational safety organisation falls lines and goals, identifying and disseminating tried-and-tested within the remit of the Chairman of the Managing Board, to whom measures for achieving these goals, internal and external benchthe Director Group Human Resources, who is responsible for Group marking, coordinating action plans to implement research projects, Health & Safety, reports directly. H&S advisors support the Managand representing the company in international organisations. 13 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility 11 Figures, data, facts The compliance organisation is under the authority of the Chairman 12 Vision & mission of the Managing Board, to whom the Director Group Compliance 12 Sustainability reports directly. Each country has its own compliance officer with a Commitments 2030 13 Responsibility & direct reporting line to the country manager. However, responsibilorganisation ity for ensuring that employees’ conduct is compliant with the law 14 Challenges & strategy and regulations lies with all managers and, of course, the employees 15 Stakeholder engagement themselves. 17 Materiality analysis Challenges & strategy While we minimise the risks for our business and seize new opportunities, we simultaneously develop solutions for environmental and social challenges. This work focuses on the following topic areas: The quarries as well as the sand and aggregates pits from which we extract – Occupational safety: HeidelbergCement is a manufacturing our raw materials are valuable habitats for many animal and plant species. company. Occupational health and safety is therefore our highest priority. We use targeted measures to improve our technical projects investigating the reuse of recycled building materials, and organisational safety standards and to raise awareness of for instance in fresh concrete. safe working practices. This is aimed not only at our own emAdditional information: Energy and climate protection p. 36 ff. ployees but also at the employees of external companies and Building materials recycling p. 31 third parties. – Nature conservation and species protection: The quarrying of – Securing the supply of raw materials and conserving resources: raw materials requires us to temporarily encroach upon the Our business operations are dependent on having long-term water supply, soil, and flora and fauna. At the same time, our access to mineral-based raw materials in the vicinity of our extensive land use creates refuges for endangered animal and plants. Such resources are finite, and their local exploitation plant species. We operate our quarrying sites in accordance often leads to conflicts of interest. We therefore view securing with international, national, and local environmental legislasustainable supplies of raw materials and conserving resources tion. By 2030, we aim to manage all our extraction sites on the as key strategic tasks. Our strategy of conserving resources in basis of an after-use plan agreed together with local authorities cement production includes the use of alternative raw materaccording to the needs of the community. We strive to integrate ials and fuels. In line with the European Commission’s circurecommendations for the promotion of biodiversity into every lar economy targets, HeidelbergCement is involved in research new after-use plan. 14 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility 11 Figures, data, facts – Energy efficiency and climate protection: The production of HeidelbergCement’s stakeholder focus 12 Vision & mission cement requires a lot of energy. From both an economic and 12 Sustainability an environmental standpoint, it is therefore imperative that Commitments 2030 13 Responsibility & ` we further increase our energy efficiency. Cement production International organisation by its nature also leads to a high level of CO2 emissions. We 14 Challenges & strategy have made a commitment to accept our share of the worldwide 15 Stakeholder engagement responsibility to limit the global rise in temperature to below 17 Materiality analysis 2°C. Our goal is to reduce our specific CO2 emissions by 30% by Local 2030, compared with the 1990 level, and to realise our vision of CO2-neutral concrete by 2050 at the latest. We plan to achieve CO2 reduction this by increasing the proportion of alternative CO2-neutral raw materials and fuels, developing innovative cement types with a -30% National lower carbon footprint, and – in the long term – capturing and utilising CO2 emissions. Our goal and the associated measures are consistent with the road map defined by the International is our targeted reduction in Energy Agency (IEA) to help the industry implement the Paris CO2 emissions. Agreement. They were recognised by the Science Based Targets issues at an early stage and gain greater acceptance for our activinitiative (SBTi) in spring 2019, making HeidelbergCement the ities. Each country organisation is responsible for establishing and first cement company and one of currently around 200 busimaintaining its own relationships with national and local stakenesses worldwide whose targets have been approved by the holders. The stakeholder dialogue at international level is managed SBTi. by the Group departments for communication and sustainability. Additional information: Energy and climate protection p. 36 ff. Relations with local stakeholders Most of our plants and quarries are situated near local communiGRI 102-40, 102-42, 102-43 Stakeholder engagement ties. It is therefore a matter of course for us to maintain regular contact with the respective community, government agencies, and local In view of the strong local focus of our business operations, we can organisations, and to inform them about our activities and planned only be successful in the long term if we maintain good cooperaprojects at the plant. Plant or facility management is generally tive relationships with the various stakeholders in society. We seek responsible for such stakeholder relationships. Along with personal to establish and maintain a dialogue based on trust with all such discussions, we also make use of the entire range of modern inforrelevant groups – at a local, national, and international level. The mation and dialogue media, including newsletters and guidelines resulting exchange of ideas and opinions helps us identify critical as well as different public participation concepts. 15 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility 11 Figures, data, facts other companies and organisations and a common determina12 Vision & mission tion to achieve greater sustainability. The topics addressed focus 12 Sustainability on challenges specific to individual countries and industrial policy, Commitments 2030 13 Responsibility & particularly with regard to the secure supply of raw materials, enorganisation vironmental protection, energy conservation, occupational health 14 Challenges & strategy and safety, and social and labour issues. 15 Stakeholder engagement 17 Materiality analysis As a Group headquartered in Germany, we are a member of econsense – Forum for Sustainable Development of German Business. This network of global German companies views itself as a partner and an expert forum for dialogue with governments, the scientific community, media, and society. The aim of econsense is to promote sustainable development in business and to assume social responsibility collectively. Sustainable construction: 3D printing can offer an alternative to the www.econsense.de/about-us/ traditional construction process, reducing material consumption and enabling the use of recycled concrete. In order to further strengthen innovation and sustainability at a global level, HeidelbergCement and eight other international buildGRI 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44 We aim to reconcile the interests of the company with those of the ing materials companies came together at the end of January 2018 local community. The concerns of our local stakeholders vary from to create the Global Cement and Concrete Association (GCCA) – the location to location. In general, they range from simple visit enquifirst worldwide association for cement and concrete. One of the ries and appeals for us to support projects and sports, cultural, and association’s most important tasks is to show how the challenges of educational institutions all the way through to information requests. construction – in relation to climate protection, for example – can Stakeholders also raise reservations regarding imminent modernisabe tackled in the future with the help of concrete. tion and expansion measures as well as complaints about noise and https://gccassociation.org/ dust pollution from our plants and quarries. We respond promptly to complaints and provide transparent information wherever possible HeidelbergCement and its subsidiaries also work with national and practical in order to address uncertainties and misgivings. Green Building Councils in different countries. The goal here is to Social responsibility: p. 60 ff. jointly develop certification systems for sustainable construction and to make the design, construction, and operation of buildings Stakeholder dialogue at a national and international level more sustainable. From 2019, we will also be actively involved in the HeidelbergCement is a member of various associations that repumbrella organisation, the World Green Building Council. resent their members’ interests vis-à-vis governments, businesses, https://www.worldgbc.org/ and the public. These memberships promote an exchange with Sustainable construction using concrete: p. 31 f. 16 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility 11 Figures, data, facts Dialogue with political decision makers Materiality analysis 12 Vision & mission We participate in the European Cement Association (CEMBUREAU), 12 Sustainability which speaks for European cement manufacturers in discussions and We regularly use a materiality analysis to examine how relevant Commitments 2030 13 Responsibility & negotiations with the European Union (EU) and other institutions. individual sustainability topics are for different stakeholder groups organisation As a member of the European Aggregates Association (UEPG), and for the company itself. The analysis thus helps us identify and 14 Challenges & strategy we also present our positions on aggregates to political decision evaluate issues and trends that are important for our business suc15 Stakeholder engagement makers. Our interests concerning concrete are represented by the cess today or could prove to be important in future. 17 Materiality analysis European Ready-Mixed Concrete Organisation (ERMCO) and the Stakeholder engagement: p. 15 ff. European Concrete Platform (ECP). At the end of 2017, in order to determine the topics that are relevant Materiality analysis In early 2019, we created two Public Affairs Manager positions, to HeidelbergCement, we compared the sustainability topics identibased in Berlin and Brussels, to further strengthen our dialogue fied in the past with the lists of topics used by the Global Reporting 17 with policymakers. In this way, we intend to supplement our indirect representation through associations with direct contact partners from within the company. As leading building materials Initiative (GRI) as well as those referred to in other frameworks and industry requirements, and examined their relevance to the business. This resulted in 17 action areas that we structured, consolidated, and action areas relating to company in Europe, we also want to demonstrate personally how allocated to the relevant GRI topic areas. The next step was to draw sustainability were identified our industry can contribute to solving societal challenges. One of up an analysis from a stakeholder perspective and determine the and evaluated as part of our our areas of focus will be climate protection, particularly our vision social, economic, and environmental impact of our business activity. materiality analysis. to offer CO2-neutral concrete by 2050. This process resulted in a materiality matrix, which is still valid and has therefore also been used, unchanged, for this report. Our lobbying activities represent the positions that HeidelbergCement takes in public. GRI 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44, Dialogue with analysts and investors who focus on sustainability 102-46 issues Sustainability considerations are becoming increasingly important in investment decisions as our shareholders and a growing number of financial analysts and rating agencies want to know how HeidelbergCement integrates the issue of sustainability into its Group strategy. They also want to know how successful the company has been in this regard. We provide data relating to these considerations to rating agencies including CDP, ISS-oekom, and RobecoSAM, and also attend bilateral meetings where required. In the past year, the central concerns discussed were measures and strategies to promote climate protection, the occupational safety of our employees and contractual partners, and respect for human rights. 17 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility 11 Figures, data, facts Materiality matrix 12 Vision & mission 12 Sustainability Commitments 2030 13 Responsibility & organisation 5.0 5.0 14 Challenges & strategy Sustainable Climate & 15 Stakeholder engagement products energy 17 Materiality analysis Occupational GRI 102-44, 102-47 health & safety Economic stability Compliance Relevance for stakeholders Human Pollutant rights emissions Circular economy 3.8 3.8 Dialogue & Attractiveness Species protection & transparency as an employer sustainable land use Supply chain Social management commitment International workforce Water management Corporate governance Transport & logistics 2.5 2.5 low medium high Impact of HeidelbergCement 18 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Business & Compliance 20 Figures, data, facts 21 Legal compliance 21 Business performance 22 Compliance management 24 Risk & opportunity management Image: Construction of the Herrschaftsbuck Tunnel near Rheinfelden in Germany. http://bit.ly/Tunnel-EN 19 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility 20 Figures, data, facts Legal compliance p. 21 21 Legal compliance 21 Business performance 22 Compliance management We have pledged 24 Risk & opportunity management to incorporate the principles of the UN Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour standards, environmental protection, and corruption prevention as integral elements of our strategy, corporate culture, and day-to-day business. Business performance p. 21 f. Focus on human Around 90% of our procurement volume is invested in the areas immediately rights. surrounding our plants or within the respective country. Each of our plants collaborates closely with local suppliers and service providers. In 2018, a third of our national organisations carried out a human rights evaluation. By 2020, Compliance activities p. 23 we aim to produce a risk assessment for all 14,900 countries in which we are substantially active. Our suppliers must also subscribe to fundamental human rights. employees registered for our Compliance e-learning programmes in 2018. The range of courses available includes topics such as discrimination and harassment in the workplace, competition law, and the prevention of corruption. 20 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility 20 Figures, data, facts HeidelbergCement is committed to responsible corporate governWe expect our employees, business 21 Legal compliance ance. We aim to achieve our business objectives in accordance 21 Business performance partners, and suppliers to make a with applicable laws and international standards and by means of 22 Compliance clear commitment to the protection management socially and environmentally responsible methods. Only in this way will our success be sustainable. of human rights, in particular the 24 Risk & opportunity management prohibition of child and forced labour. This is how we want to be perceived Legal compliance as a long-term, ethical company at all our locations. In all the countries in which we operate, we comply with and respect the applicable laws and regulations. They form the legal basis Andreas Schnurr for our business activity. As a globally active company, we are also Director Group Compliance bound by international values and standards. We are therefore committed to adhering to the core labour standards of the International Labour Organization (ILO), the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Our management and monitoring structures comply with the comEnterprises, and the United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human pany’s Articles of Association, the Rules of Procedure of the ManagRights. We also expect our employees and business partners worlding Board and Supervisory Board, the regulations under the German wide to observe these central guidelines and recommendations. Stock Company Act, and the German Corporate Governance Code. Our Leadership Principles therefore include a commitment to these standards. Suppliers are obligated to comply with our Supplier Code of Conduct. Business performance When we joined the United Nations Global Compact in OctoIn 2018, Group revenue increased to €18.1 billion, correspondber 2018, we pledged to incorporate its principles in the areas of ing to a rise of 4.7%. After adjustment for exchange rate effects human rights, labour standards, environmental protection, and corand changes to the scope of consolidation, the increase amountruption prevention as integral elements of our strategy, corporate ed to 8.0%. Personnel costs rose in comparison with the previous culture, and day-to-day business. In this context, we will increase year by 1.4% to €3,032 million. The financial result improved by our involvement in charitable projects in order to play our part in €52 million to €-367 million. The tax expense reduced to €464 milachieving the development goals of the United Nations, particularly lion, largely due to a special effect in the previous year, arising from the sustainability goals. We will report to the public annually on our the revaluation of the deferred tax item resulting from the US tax progress on the implementation of projects and the achievement of reform. The Group share of profit for the financial year amounted objectives, in accordance with the rules of the Global Compact. to €1,143 million. 21 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility 20 Figures, data, facts Free cash flow fell by €107 million to around €1.3 billion, after Revenue by geographical Group areas 21 Legal compliance maintenance investments. We spent €501 million of this amount 21 Business performance on net expansion investments and €231 million on reducing Africa-Eastern 22 Compliance debt. A total of €565 million was paid out to the shareholders of Western and 9.8% Mediterranean management Southern Europe 29% Basin 24 Risk & opportunity HeidelbergCement and to non-controlling interests. management  Northern and Eastern Europe HeidelbergCement operates in around 60 countries and at more 17.1% Central Asia than 3,000 locations worldwide. We create jobs at our locations – both directly at our production sites and indirectly in upstream and Management downstream business sectors. We promote economic development North America 25% 19.1% Asia-Pacific with our wages, investment, purchasing, and taxes – particularly in 79% economically weak regions. At our locations, local employees are given management responsibility wherever possible. The proportion of local managers in senior management positions in 2018 was of the management positions 79%. Each of our plants collaborates closely with local suppliers and in our locations worldwide are held by local managers. service providers, and we invest around 90% of our procurement Compliance management volume in the areas immediately surrounding our plants or within the respective country. We have implemented a compliance programme across the Group, based on our Code of Business Conduct, to ensure conduct that is Our production and quarrying sites are generally designed for a compliant both with the law and with regulations. The Code of service life of several decades. To maintain operating permits at Business Conduct requires all employees to adhere to our basic prinour locations over these long periods and to renew our mining conciples of responsible corporate governance, regardless of whether cessions at the required intervals, we need the constant support of such principles have been written into law or not. The compliance the public. To achieve this, the key requirement is that we meet programme is reviewed on an ongoing basis for any necessary adthe conditions for regulatory approval, particularly in the area of justments with respect to current legal and social developments, environmental protection. and it is improved and updated accordingly. A central element of this programme is the self-commitment made by the company management not to tolerate violations of applicable laws and to impose sanctions where appropriate. It also includes internal guidelines and measures that express the legal provisions in concrete terms. In addition to regular communication of these guidelines, our management issues compliance letters to raise awareness of compliance with laws and regulations. We also 22 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility 20 Figures, data, facts offer information brochures, an internetand telephone-based reComparable measures will, in the future, also be undertaken in 21 Legal compliance porting system, and employee training that makes use of modern connection with the protection of human rights. Besides introduc21 Business performance technologies and media, such as e-learning modules. The range of ing a Group position on human rights, we commenced work on 22 Compliance management electronic courses available covers topics such as discrimination and a human rights risk analysis and began to compile performance 24 Risk & opportunity harassment in the workplace, competition law, and the prevention indicators relating to human rights for the first time in 2017. By management of corruption. the end of 2018, about a third of our country organisations had carried out a human rights evaluation. This involves identifyViolations of applicable laws and internal guidelines will be consisting potential risks and existing measures as well as determining ently sanctioned. In addition, corrective and preventive measures additional measures to be implemented. Our aim is to produce ensure that similar incidents are prevented from occurring in the a risk assessment for all countries in which we are substantially future. active and to repeat this analysis regularly at an interval of approximately three years. Our suppliers must also subscribe to fundamenGroup-wide implementation of the compliance programme is tal human rights. A supplier management system is currently being monitored by regular and special audits by Group Internal Audit as introduced across the Group to improve compliance monitoring. well as via special half-yearly compliance reporting by the Director The topic of human rights will play an even greater role in compliGroup Compliance to the Managing Board and the Audit Commitance training in future. tee of the Supervisory Board. The latter monitors the effectiveness Additional information on the measures taken to establish legally of the compliance programme and verifies in particular whether it compliant and responsible conduct within the HeidelbergCement adequately satisfies the legal requirements and recognised compliGroup can be found in our Annual Report 2018 (pages 64 ff. and 82 ff.). ance standards. An additional quarterly report regularly informs the Managing Board members with regional responsibility about Compliance reporting system compliance incidents in their Group areas. Our compliance reporting system, which also includes criteria for infringements of human rights and ILO core labour standards, Compliance activities offers employees and external parties the opportunity to report In 2018, the country organisations of HeidelbergCement once suspected violations of laws or guidelines. The system encompasses again concentrated their efforts on implementing country-specific a variety of channels through which compliance violations can measures to tackle corruption and to ensure compliance with combe addressed, ranging from reports sent directly to specifically petition law, according to their risk profiles. This has been backed authorised contact partners to information submitted via our whistleby appropriate training measures. In the reporting year, around blower hotline. All such reports are handled anonymously if desired. 14,900 employees across the Group were registered for the ComOur Compliance Incident Reporting & Case Management Guideline pliance e-learning programmes. contains instructions and principles on how to report compliancerelated incidents, investigate submitted complaints, and protect those reporting the incidents. 23 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility 20 Figures, data, facts We examine every report we receive and take appropriate discipHeidelbergCement is subject to various risks that are not funda21 Legal compliance linary action in cases of proven misconduct. These measures can mentally avoided, but instead accepted, provided they are consist21 Business performance range from reprimands to dismissal. We also initiate civil action and ent with the legal and ethical principles of entrepreneurial activity 22 Compliance management press criminal charges, if necessary. In addition to taking corrective and are well balanced by the opportunities they present. Oppor24 Risk & opportunity action, we implement preventive measures to help prevent similar tunity management and risk management at HeidelbergCement management incidents arising in the future. are closely linked by Group-wide planning and monitoring systems. Opportunities are recorded in the annual operational plan and folIn 2018, Group Compliance registered 89 confirmed or pending lowed up as part of monthly financial reporting. Operational mancompliance cases at Group level, which corresponds to a rise of 2% agement in each country and the central Group departments are compared with 2017. In our opinion, this slight rise in recorded cases directly responsible for identifying and observing opportunities at is primarily the result of an increased willingness to report due to an early stage. improved compliance awareness. Of the allegations, 44% related to the working environment, 13% were property offences, and 12% HeidelbergCement has installed transparent regulations to govern concerned corrupt behaviour and conflicts of interest. The remaincompetences and responsibilities for risk management that are ing incidents were distributed among several other categories. The based on the Group’s structure. A code of conduct, guidelines, few reports relating to human rights were predominantly cases of and principles apply across the Group for the implementation alleged discrimination. of systematic and effective risk management. The standardised internal control and risk management system is based on financial resources, operational planning, and the risk management stratRisk & opportunity management egy established by the Managing Board. HeidelbergCement’s risk policy is based on the business strategy, Risks that may have a significant impact on our assets, financial, and which focuses on safeguarding the Group’s existence and sustainearnings position are divided into four categories based on the risk ably increasing its enterprise value. Entrepreneurial activity is always catalogue established in the company: financial risks, strategic risks, forward looking and therefore subject to certain risks. Identifying operational risks, as well as legal and compliance risks. These also risks, understanding them, as well as assessing and reducing them include sustainability and non-financial risks. systematically are the responsibility of the Managing Board and a Comprehensive information on our risk and opportunity management key task for all managers. can be found in our Annual Report 2018 (pages 74–85). 24 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Product & Innovation 26 Figures, data, facts 27 Focus on customers 27 Research & technology Image: The Italian Pavilion at Expo 2015 in Milan, Italy. http://bit.ly/Palazzo-EN 25 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility 26 Figures, data, facts Investments p. 29 27 Focus on customers 27 Research & technology €145.7 were spent on research and technology in 2018. million This corresponds to 0.8% of Group revenue. Research p. 29 Innovative and sustainable products 1,156 employees that contribute to were employed in research and technology in 2018. The rise in the number of employees in this area reflects the high importance of customer-related development and technical service climate protection. as well as technology and innovation. Innovation p. 30 Our R&D activities aim to generate added value for customers and the company through innovative products. We also minimise energy Alternative raw materials usage and our CO2 emissions by means of are one of the most important ways of reducing CO2 emissions process improvements and new formulations. in cement manufacturing. By using these materials, we actively contribute to improving waste management and recycling. 26 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility 26 Figures, data, facts Our customers place the highest requirements on our products and Since 2015, HeidelbergCement has used the Net Promoter System 27 Focus on customers services. Our research and development (R&D) activities are orient(NPS)© as an experience optimisation programme to deliver superior 27 Research & technology ed towards these requirements as we strive to innovate. Improved value to our customers worldwide. In 2018, full customer journey processes and new cement and concrete formulations help minimise mapping was introduced to deepen our customer insights. In the energy consumption and CO2 emissions. As a result, they also reduce past four years, over 1,700 optimisations based on customer feedthe effects on the environment as well as costs. back have been made to improve our value offering. We treat all the customer data we collect confidentially and in line with GDPR regulations, and we do not pass on any information to third parties. Focus on customers Our close proximity to the market enables us to provide our cusResearch & technology tomers with extensive advice and develop our products in close consultation with them. The departments and employees responThe purpose of HeidelbergCement’s R&D activities is to generate sible are directly incorporated into the organisation of the respectadded value for customers and the company through innovative ive national subsidiaries and develop cements, aggregates, and products and to minimise energy usage, CO2 emissions, and the concretes that are optimally adapted to local needs. This developassociated costs by means of process improvements and new forment work is often carried out in direct cooperation with our cusmulations. tomers. However, our work does not end with the product, but also includes providing our customers with expert advice on product Our research and development activities usage. Customers who wish to file complaints can get in touch with The innovation activities of HeidelbergCement focus on five main their local contact partners, whereby all complaints – whether of a areas: technical, logistical, or commercial nature – are forwarded directly to the appropriate department. – Products and applications: Our R&D activities are geared strongly towards the market and our customers. The main priority is the GRI 102-40, 102-43 In order to continually deliver more value to our customers and development and improvement of binders and concretes with provide them with the high-quality solutions they expect, we need optimised properties and innovative functionalities. Thanks to to look beyond mere product innovation. By truly understanding automation and digitalisation, we can also offer our customers our customers and their needs, we are able to optimise not only expert, tailor-made technical solutions. products but also interactions and services. We believe that creating greater customer value brings major benefits, such as differen– Cement production: Continuous improvement and the sharing tiation, loyalty, advocacy, and sustainable growth. of best practices are priorities in the cement business line. The Continuous Improvement Program (CIP) has now been almost fully implemented worldwide. The integration of the former Italcementi plants was also successfully completed in 2018. 27 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility 26 Figures, data, facts – Development of cements and concretes with improved carbon 27 Focus on customers footprints: A key focus for us is to further develop composite 27 Research & technology cements with less clinker. Reducing the proportion of clinker is the most important lever when it comes to minimising energy consumption and CO2 emissions as well as preserving natural raw materials. In addition, we are developing entirely new kinds of binders that dispense with the use of conventional clinker as far as possible. We are also working on processes to bind CO2 into our products by means of carbonation, which allows us to use building materials for CO2 storage. Organisation and fields of activity Our global competence centers Heidelberg Technology Center (HTC), Competence Center Materials (CCM), Competence Center The Heidelberg Technology Center (HTC) in Leimen, Germany: one of the Readymix (CCR), and teams from the two centers for R&D and prodmain focuses of research here is the reduction of CO2 emissions. uct innovation – Global R&D (GRD) and Global Product Innovation (GPI) – pool the knowledge in our Group and make it available to – Aggregates: In the aggregates business line, the well-established all operating units. International experts work in all of our comprogramme for continuous improvement (CI) exceeded the petence centers, offering wide-ranging expertise in the areas of annual target of €40 million per year by the end of 2018. cement, concrete, and aggregates. The programme, which commenced in 2011 and involves all aggregates locations, promotes further improvements in the The Group-wide activities in the area of research and technology extraction of raw materials, production processes, productivity, are divided into the following tasks: energy consumption, and costs. – Central R&D and innovation: We have concentrated our Group– Optimisations across all business lines: Vertical integration, wide R&D and innovation activities in the cement, ready-mixed especially in urban centers, is a strong focus for us. Significoncrete, and aggregates business lines in our two research cencant financial improvements in the long term can be achieved ters in Leimen, Germany, (GRD) and Bergamo, Italy, (GPI). While through the coordinated optimisation of product portfolio, the R&D team in Leimen focuses on the reduction of CO2 emisproduction processes, and logistics across the aggregates, sions, CO2 use in building materials, resource efficiency, and a ready-mixed concrete, and cement business lines. By utilising decrease in production costs, GPI in Bergamo concentrates on our entire raw material portfolio in one market region, we can developing sustainable and industry-leading concrete solutions optimise the material mix in our ready-mixed concrete plants for modern urban and infrastructure construction as well as genso that our raw material deposits are used as efficiently as poserating new market opportunities. Individual projects are desible. fined and implemented by the two teams in close coordination with the operating companies. This close collaboration from 28 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility 26 Figures, data, facts the very start of the project facilitates the efficient implemenExpenditure on research and technology 27 Focus on customers tation of the development results and a quick market launch. 27 Research & technology Em 2016 2017 2018 The activities of the Global Environmental Sustainability (GES) Central R&D and innovation 1) 2) 13.6 21.9 18.3 department in technologies regarding CO2 capture are also Technology and innovation 55.6 61.7 64.0 taken into account in the field of Central R&D and innovation. Customer-related development and technical service 47.4 57.4 63.4 – Technology and innovation: Technical centers support our Total 116.6 141.0 145.7 national companies in each Group area. In the cement busi1) Including capitalised expenses. ness line, this is the HTC, with three area organisations locat2) Since 2017, the Global Environmental Sustainability (GES) department has been included in these figures. ed in Germany, supporting Europe, the Mediterranean Basin, Africa, and Central Asia; one location in North America; and one in Asia with offices in China, India, and Indonesia. They assist In the 2018 financial year, a total of 1,156 people (previous year: our cement plants with all technical issues – from securing raw 1,136) were employed in research and technology. The personnel materials and operational optimisations to process control and breakdown and development over the last three years is shown quality assurance. Similarly, the CCM supports the aggregates in the following table. The high importance of customer-related and asphalt business areas Group-wide with programmes for development and technical service as well as technology and innocontinuous improvement (CI), digitalisation, and performance vation is reflected not only in the costs but also in the number of management. The CCR acts as a comparable organisation for employees. the ready-mixed concrete business line. Employees in research and technology – Customer-related development and technical service: Our close proximity to the market facilitates intensive customer-oriented 2016 2017 2018 development and technical service. The relevant departments Central R&D and innovation 1) 97 127 109 and employees, which are integrated directly into the organisaTechnology and innovation 358 348 357 tion of the respective national companies, develop and optimise Customer-related development and technical service 608 661 690 the cements, aggregates, and concretes that are tailored to the Total 1,063 1,136 1,156 local needs, often in close cooperation with the customers. 1) Since 2017, the Global Environmental Sustainability (GES) department has been included in these figures. Expenditure and number of employees Total expenditure for research and technology amounted to €145.7 million in the reporting year (previous year: 141.0), corresponding to 0.8% of Group revenue. Personnel costs accounted for around three-quarters of the total expenses. The following table shows a breakdown of expenses for the last three years, divided into each of the three fields of activities mentioned above. 29 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility 26 Figures, data, facts Alternative raw materials for improving the carbon footprint Cement type portfolio 27 Focus on customers One of the most important ways of reducing CO2 emissions in 27 Research & technology cement manufacturing is through the use of alternative raw materials that are produced as waste in other industries. A very Pozzolana/ large share of these alternative raw materials comes from the Clinker ratio fly ash cement 9.2% metalworking industry. Moreover, coal-fired power plants supply ash as well as synthetic gypsum. By using these materials, we 74.7% Ground granulated actively contribute to improving the circular economy. The systemLimestone blast furnace slag 1.7% 18.0% cement atic assessment of the suitability of all raw materials used ensures the best and most consistent product characteristics. represented the clinker Oilwell/ white cement 0.6% proportion in cement in 2018. HeidelbergCement generally uses alternative raw materials in two areas: in the combustion process for the production of clinker, which Masonry cement/ is the most important intermediate product in the manufacture of special binder 0.8% 12.1% Slag cement cement, and as additives in cement grinding to reduce its content of CO2-intensive clinker. MultiOrdinary component Portland cement 39.0% 18.5% cement To produce clinker, we make use of used foundry sand, for example, or lime sludge from drinking water purification systems in order to reduce the consumption of finite natural resources. When we develop new types of cement with a reduced clinker proportion, we also use additives such as blast furnace slag from steel production operations as well as fly ash, a by-product in coal-fired power At Group level, the proportion of alternative raw materials in plants. Moreover, in Africa, for example, we use ground rock from cement production was 11.3% during the reporting period; the local quarries as an additional component in cement production, clinker proportion in cement was 74.7%. thereby replacing imported clinker with local raw materials. In the Netherlands, Germany, and France, we are investigating whether Development of alternative clinker the fines from concrete recycling can be used as a cement ingrediWith TernoCem®, an innovative belite calcium sulfoaluminate ent in order to fully close the loop in concrete recycling. ternesite cement, we have established the basis for an alternative clinker technology. Based on an altered chemical composition and low burning temperatures, CO2 output is 30% lower in comparison with conventional clinker, and energy consumption is reduced by around 15%. The basic technology is protected by various patents. 30 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility 26 Figures, data, facts In 2015, we started a multi-year research programme to develop support and accelerate developments in the area of sustainable 27 Focus on customers the technology to market maturity. Our aim is to create the condiconstruction and market transformation. From 2019, we will also 27 Research & technology tions for future product standardisation and market launch. This be actively involved in the umbrella organisation, the World Green programme has been supported by the ECO-BINDER project , which Building Council. was co-funded by the EU and completed according to schedule at the end of 2018. Besides reducing our carbon footprint through the use of alternative www.ecobinder-project.eu/en/ raw materials and clinker technologies, our research laboratories are also working on products intended to improve the energy efficiency of buildings and to support the energy transition. Concrete is genInnovative product development makes erally characterised by good thermal insulation properties and can, a valuable contribution to climate where used correctly, contribute towards significant energy savings protection. Our research includes the in a building over the material’s service life. Thanks to innovative production of new building materials formulations, concrete can also be used to store or conduct heat. Our through the recarbonation of recycled research center in Leimen, which was built in 2016, uses concrete-core activation to provide energy-efficient air conditioning for offices and concrete – an important step towards laboratories. HeidelbergCement’s new headquarters, due to be occurealising our vision of a CO2-neutral pied from the beginning of 2020, are being constructed in accordance concrete. with the platinum standard of the German Sustainable Building Council (DGNB), and the energy demand of the building will be exceptionDr. Wolfgang Dienemann Director Global R&D ally low. One example of a product designed to support the energy transition is Powercrete®, a special concrete with outstandingly high thermal conductivity, which allows high-voltage cables to be laid Sustainable construction with concrete underground. As a founding member of the Concrete Sustainability Council, we contributed significantly to the development of a new certificaAn important factor in measuring the sustainability performance of tion system for sustainably produced concrete, which was introcement and concrete lies in considering the entire life cycle of these duced at the beginning of 2017 and developed further in 2018. In building materials, including how they are recycled. Heidelbergthe reporting year, sixteen concrete plants and all cement plants in Cement is committed to the circular economy, as demonstrated, for Germany, one concrete plant in Spain, as well as one concrete and example, by our participation in the Dutch concrete recycling comone cement plant in Turkey were certified. With the certification pany Rewinn B.V., Amsterdam, which we established together with of concrete, taking into account social, economic, and ecological our local partner Theo Pouw BV, Utrecht, Netherlands. The company aspects along the value chain, we expect to see greater acceptance continued to develop positively in the reporting year, and we are of the product and the entire industry. We have also strengthened able to produce up to 250,000 tonnes of aggregates from recycled our engagement in Green Building Councils, the European Conconcrete annually. These are already used in numerous applications, struction Technology Platform, and other associations in order to such as the production of fresh concrete. 31 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility 26 Figures, data, facts In Australia, Hanson Australia took over the Alex Fraser Group, one 27 Focus on customers of the largest companies for building material recycling on the east 27 Research & technology coast of Australia. Alex Fraser recycles more than 3 million tonnes of demolition concrete and several hundred thousand tonnes of asphalt every year. The majority of this recycled material is currently still used in road construction. However, there are specific plans to increase the use of demolition concrete in the production of fresh concrete in the future. Collecting data about sustainable products In order to meet the ever-increasing demand for transparent data relating to HeidelbergCement’s sustainable product portfolio, we further developed the Product Evaluation Tool (PET) in 2018, which had been newly created in the previous year and has been introduced since 1 January 2018 in seven Group countries. The asphalt mix Green Roads PolyPave from our Australian subsidiary Alex Fraser Group contains recycled plastic and offers numerous environmental GRI 102-44 PET assesses the sustainability performance of our cement and benefits. concrete products over their entire life cycles. The tool is based on a questionnaire that compares either a product that has been The sustainability assessments carried out using PET and informaimproved for a specific application or a new product with the reftion about the revenue generated through sustainable products erence product used as standard for this application on the basis are collated in the Sustainable Product Database. Above all, this of calculations and qualified assessments. The period for deterresource helps us to respond to enquiries by investors, analysts, mining the reference product is 2017/2018. The reference product and rating agencies, who use these parameters as key criteria to thus serves as a benchmark for measuring and assessing the change describe company performance. The sustainability data recorded made by the newer, more innovative product. In this way, the new with PET is collected every three years, while the key figures releproduct is recognised as being a more efficient substitute for the vant for determining revenue are updated annually. reference product within the same area of application. During the PET evaluation process, data is collected on the product’s various life-cycle phases, particularly information relating to the environment, social aspects, and cost-effectiveness. The assessment takes into account production as well as construction and usage phases and recycling/end-of-life considerations. 32 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Production & Supply Chain 34 Figures, data, facts 35 Environmental management 36 Energy & climate protection 39 Alternative fuels 40 Land use & biodiversity 42 Local environmental impact 44 Management of supplier relations Image: Mining aggregates in Bridgeport/Texas, USA. 33 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility 34 Figures, data, facts CO2 emissions p. 36 35 Environmental management 36 Energy & climate protection CO2-neutral concrete 39 Alternative fuels 40 Land use & biodiversity by 2050 at the latest: to realise this vision, we are investigating 42 Local environmental a number of measures. It is HeidelbergCement’s view that impact concrete has the potential to become the most sustainable 44 Management of supplier building material. relations Climate protection p. 36 Our Climate Policy We manufacture underscores HeidelbergCement’s commitment to climate our products in a protection and its compliance with international climate targets. It was adopted in 2018 in addition to the Sustainability Commitments 2030. responsible manner. Quarry Life Award p. 42 317 All of our facilities around the world have strict rules for ensuring sustainable, environmentally compatible production processes. project proposals Our suppliers also have to commit themselves were submitted in 2018 as part of our Quarry Life Award to a Code of Conduct, and we monitor their biodiversity competition. 110 projects were selected and implecompliance with this code. mented worldwide in our company’s quarries and extraction sites. 34 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility 34 Figures, data, facts HeidelbergCement’s sustainability strategy focuses on environ35 Environmental mental responsibility, climate protection, and ensuring the permanmanagement ent availability of resources. As a result, we are committed to en36 Energy & climate protection suring sustainable production processes at all of our production 39 Alternative fuels sites worldwide. We also want to sharpen our suppliers’ awareness 40 Land use & biodiversity of our standards. That is why a Code of Conduct forms the basis of 42 Local environmental all of our partnerships, and our contractors have to commit themimpact selves to upholding this code. 44 Management of supplier relations Environmental management Environmental protection is an integral element of HeidelbergTo reduce emissions of air pollutants, we are continuously investing in the Cement’s business strategy, which is defined by the Managing Board modernisation of our plants – including in Yerraguntla, India, in 2018. in consultation with the Supervisory Board. One member of the Managing Board is responsible for the topic of environmental sustainability and heads the Group Environmental Sustainability ComThe internal monitoring of all relevant operating data is carried mittee. The task of this committee is to accelerate the progress of out by our competence centers: HTC for the cement business line, operating activities with regard to environmental sustainability and CCM for the aggregates business line, and CCR for concrete. Any to promote HeidelbergCement’s image as a sustainable company. irregularities identified during the check are followed up immediThe Global Environmental Sustainability department also plays an ately. Where necessary, this also includes supporting the relevant important role in driving progress towards environmental sustainproduction plant in resolving any technical issues. ability at Group level. In the reporting year, no violations of environmental protection As HeidelbergCement has a decentralised structure, the country laws from continuing operations that would have led to significant organisations take responsibility for all areas of our operating activfines or non-financial penalties were reported from continuing ities, including compliance with all legal provisions and regulatory operations. conditions. This also covers the correct recording and transmission of all necessary production, operating, consumption, and emissions In an effort to place environmental protection on a firmer footing data that HeidelbergCement is obligated to provide in the various at our production sites and achieve continual improvements in this countries by law or by regulations, or because of voluntary comarea, we plan to introduce certified environmental management mitments. Every plant manager is essentially responsible for the systems at all of our cement plants worldwide by 2030. We will environmental management system and the environmental perforfocus here on the ISO 14001 international standard, but also use mance of their plant. locally recognised national environmental management systems. At the end of 2018, 96% of our integrated cement plants were operating with a certified environmental management system. 35 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility 34 Figures, data, facts Energy & climate protection Climate protection 35 Environmental management 2016 2017 2018 Due to the high temperatures needed to burn limestone, the 36 Energy & climate Specific net CO2 emissions protection production of cement consumes a lot of energy and thus causes (kg CO2 per tonne of cement) 610.5 607.6 599.2 39 Alternative fuels combustion-related CO2 emissions. In the calcination process, Alternative fuel rate 19.7% 20.8% 21.7% 40 Land use & biodiversity the raw material is heated to over 800°C, which leads to further, Clinker ratio 75.2% 75.3% 74.7% 42 Local environmental process-related CO2 emissions. impact 44 Management of supplier relations This is why climate protection is a fundamental part of our environHeidelbergCement is also working to realise its vision of producing mental policy, as is also reflected in our Sustainability Commitments a CO2-neutral concrete by 2050 at the latest. To achieve this, we are 2030, published in October 2017. In this document, Heidelberginvestigating a number of measures, including the option of capAlternative fuels Cement has set itself the objective of reducing its ecological footturing and utilising CO2 emissions in the product life cycle over the print. As a company, we are committed to fulfilling our share of long term. It is HeidelbergCement’s view that this technology could the global responsibility to keep the worldwide temperature rise make concrete the most sustainable building material. 21.7% below 2°C, as set out in the Paris Agreement. In practical terms, this means that HeidelbergCement’s target is to reduce its specific CO2 emissions per tonne of cement by 30% compared with the 1990 Adoption of a Climate Policy In 2018, HeidelbergCement adopted a Climate Policy, in addition was the alternative fuel rate level by 2030. A reduction of approximately 20% was achieved to the Sustainability Commitments 2030, in order to underscore its in 2018. in 2018. To attain this target, we will, for instance, increase the commitment to climate protection and compliance with international proportion of alternative fuels in the fuel mix to 30%. In 2018, climate targets. The policy contains the following objectives: this figure was around 22%. At the same time, we plan to further 1) A 30% reduction in our CO2 emissions by 2030, compared with intensify the use of alternative raw materials and further reduce 1990 levels the proportion of clinker in our cement – that is to say, the clinker 2) Further investment in economically viable, innovative technolratio. ogies to reduce process-related CO2 emissions, such as carbon capture and utilisation Our reduction targets and the measures defined to achieve them 3) Increased use of alternative fuels, especially biomass are in accordance with the road map set out by the International 4) Continuous improvements to energy efficiency as well as inEnergy Agency (IEA) for our industry in order to successfully limit vestment in the generation of renewable electricity, wherever the global temperature rise to 2°C, as agreed at the COP21 Climate economically and environmentally feasible Change Conference in Paris. We have since had this conformity 5) Use of 80% of the research and development budget for the confirmed by the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi), which development of sustainable products, such as concretes with an makes HeidelbergCement the first company in the cement sector, improved carbon footprint, the promotion of concrete recarbonand one of currently around 200 businesses worldwide, whose ation and recycling, as well as the use of secondary cementitious reduction targets have been approved by the SBTi. materials 6) Support of the development of construction solutions to improve the energy efficiency of buildings and infrastructure 36 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility 34 Figures, data, facts Participation in the European Union’s emissions trading system 35 Environmental HeidelbergCement currently has 54 facilities in 16 countries that parmanagement ticipate in the EU Emissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS). The debate 36 Energy & climate protection regarding the reform of the EU ETS for Phase IV (2021–2030) con39 Alternative fuels tinued in 2018, with the details and the timetable in particular still 40 Land use & biodiversity to be determined. 42 Local environmental impact Emissions trading systems outside Europe 44 Management of supplier relations Emissions trading systems are also being set up in regions outside the EU. A national emissions trading system in China – a follow-on to the pilot projects run in some provinces – is expected to commence in 2020. As at the end of 2018, no decision had yet been made regarding the timing of the cement industry’s inclusion in the scheme. In North America, the Western Climate Initiative combines the Canadian and Californian emissions trading programmes. In the At the HeidelbergCement plant in Lixhe, Belgium, the LEILAC consortium United States, California has had an emissions trading system since is working on capturing CO2 in its purest form, thereby reducing the 2013. In Canada, we are currently subject to a CO2 tax and operate ecological footprint of cement production. as part of an emissions trading system at provincial level. A carbon price floor can be expected at national level, which will merge the heating of the raw material. The construction plans for the Canada’s individual emissions trading systems over the next few calciner were completed in 2017, and work began at our cement years. plant in Lixhe, Belgium, in 2018 to procure the individual plant components and construct the 60-metre-high demonstration calciner. Innovations for climate protection The construction work was completed in the first half of 2019, and HeidelbergCement takes a leading role when it comes to climate actual process trials have begun. The knowledge gathered over the protection research projects and invests in particular in studies past few years was disseminated at the international Innovation into innovative techniques for the capture and utilisation of CO2. in Industrial Carbon Capture Conference, which took place at the In doing so, we are fulfilling our obligation to the Low Carbon beginning of February 2018 in Liège, near our Lixhe cement plant. Technology Partnerships initiative (LCTPi), which we joined in 2015 www.project-leilac.eu with 17 other cement companies. To further develop the oxyfuel technology, HeidelbergCement parCurrent research projects investigating carbon capture ticipates in the CEMCAP project, which aims to drive technologies The EU-funded LEILAC (Low Emissions Intensity Lime And Cement) for the capture of CO2 in the cement industry and is co-funded project, in which HeidelbergCement is one of the main strategic by the Horizon 2020 EU development programme. In the oxyfuel partners, started in January 2016. This project aims to demonstrate process, the rotary kiln is supplied with pure oxygen instead of the technical and economic feasibility of a process technology ambient air, which facilitates the capture of CO2. As this technology designed to capture CO2 in its purest form when it is released during has not yet been tested on a large scale in the cement industry but 37 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility 34 Figures, data, facts is expected to help us make a crucial breakthrough in decreasing 35 Environmental the cost of carbon capture, HeidelbergCement has already been management involved in a number of preliminary investigation programmes in 36 Energy & climate protection the past. In 2015, we also joined another research project, which 39 Alternative fuels was sponsored by the German Federal Ministry of Education and 40 Land use & biodiversity Research as well as the EU and managed by the University of Stutt42 Local environmental gart. In this project, all major aspects of the practical and technical impact feasibility of the oxyfuel process in cement clinker production were 44 Management of supplier relations investigated in detail. The project was completed at the end of 2018, and the results will soon be available online. The next step is to use these findings to build a complete demonstration plant. www.sintef.no/projectweb/cemcap Current research projects investigating carbon sequestration The team at the algae farm established in 2018 at our Safi plant in Morocco: and utilisation this is where HeidelbergCement is researching the use of microalgae in the recycling of CO2. Recarbonation of cement dust in concrete recycling processes In 2017, HeidelbergCement launched the CO2MIN project in collaboration with RWTH Aachen University and the Institute for By recarbonating the cement dust generated in concrete recycling, Advanced Sustainability Studies (IASS) in Potsdam, Germany. This we can return CO2 to the cement and concrete materials cycle. This project aims to investigate the potential of natural minerals for process requires access to sufficient quantities of demolition conabsorbing CO2 and the possibility of using them to produce marcrete and cost-effective management of the material streams of ketable building materials. Besides natural minerals like olivine and recycled material and CO2. The concept’s technical feasibility has basalt, industrial waste products such as slag or fines made from already been examined, and pilot projects are being planned. recycled concrete are also being tested. The three-year research and development programme received €3 million in funding from the Use of CO2 for algae cultivation German Federal Ministry of Education and Research. Our research and development projects in Sweden, Turkey, and France have yielded very encouraging results and make an important contribution to our strategy of turning CO2 into a useable resource. In this context, we developed a large-scale demonstration project in 2018 to produce algae for fish food at our Safi cement plant in Morocco, investing more than €1.2 million in the construction of a one-hectare algae farm. Preliminary trials for the selection of suitable algae species were conducted successfully in 2018, which means that we can begin the actual breeding trials from mid-2019. 38 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility 34 Figures, data, facts Long-term storage of CO2 Alternative fuels replace natural resources 35 Environmental Following the conclusion of a comprehensive feasibility study in The Alternative Fuel Master Plan project was launched in mid-2018. management 2016, the carbon capture project at the Brevik cement plant in It aims to increase the proportion of alternative fuels across the 36 Energy & climate protection Norway entered its next phase with the start of the concept study Group, helping us to meet our commitment to reduce CO2 emissions 39 Alternative fuels in April 2017. The Norwegian government’s CCS (Carbon Capture by 2030. The project is being led by a working group comprising 40 Land use & biodiversity and Storage) project was undertaken in three different sectors of experts from various Group areas and departments. 42 Local environmental industry, among others at our Brevik cement plant. At the beginimpact ning of 2018, the Norwegian government shortlisted Brevik for an In 2018, we significantly increased the proportion of alternative 44 Management of supplier relations industrial-scale CO2-capture trial. This qualifies the plant to carry fuels used in several countries. This is predominantly waste that out a detailed preliminary planning and implementation study. A would be uneconomical to recycle or cannot be recycled in full. In final decision on the implementation of this large-scale trial costthis scenario, co-processing in clinker kilns is regarded as a worthing several million euros is expected during 2019. According to the while option, as it not only uses the waste’s calorific value much planned schedule, the CO2 emissions captured as part of this project more efficiently compared with waste incineration plants but will be transported to an underground storage site below the North also embeds its mineral components into the clinker. The waste is Sea from 2023. co-processed without any residue while complying with the same www.norcem.no/en/carbon_capture strict emission standards as waste incineration plants. More information on our research projects: p. 26 f. of the AR 2018 During the reporting year, we made various investments in the use of alternative fuels. At our cement plant in Górazdze, Poland, for Alternative fuels example, we commissioned a drying system for alternative fuels, allowing us to increase the use of biomass in particular. Other areas Many waste materials and by-products from other industries serve of focus in terms of optimisation and environmental protection are as valuable raw materials for HeidelbergCement. We use these the projects within the Germany Cement Master Plan for modernresources as alternatives to finite natural raw materials and fossil isation and efficiency improvements as well as environmental profuels in the production of cement. In this way, we are helping to tection in our German cement plants. These activities include the conserve resources and solve the problems associated with waste two newly constructed clinker production lines in Burglengenfeld disposal faced by municipalities and industrial companies near our and Schelklingen, Germany, which are set to have alternative fuel plants. At the same time, these efforts are reducing our CO2 emisrates of 90%. sions, because the biomass that accounts for around 38.7% of the alternative fuel mix is classified as climate neutral. In 2018, the proportion of alternative fuels in the fuel mix was 21.7%. By 2030, we intend to increase this figure to 30%. 39 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility 34 Figures, data, facts Use of hazardous materials Subsequent use and reclamation 35 Environmental The careful handling of hazardous wastes is a key element of every Reclamation plans are now an integral part of approval processes. management country’s waste disposal infrastructure. For most types of hazardThese plans define the goals and timetable for the reintegration 36 Energy & climate protection ous waste, reuse in cement plants has proved to be a safe means of a quarry into the surrounding landscape. Even while a quarry 39 Alternative fuels of disposal and utilisation. The high temperatures of over 1,450°C is still in operation, we reclaim those areas of the quarry that are 40 Land use & biodiversity and long incineration period in the kilns ensure that all harmful no longer used. In 2018, the proportion of quarries with after-use 42 Local environmental components are completely destroyed. This has been confirmed by plans was 88% for cement and 76% for aggregates. We intend to impact measurements taken by independent state-certified institutes. Cerincrease these figures to 100% by 2030 at the latest. 44 Management of supplier relations tain specific types of waste, such as nuclear waste, are not used by HeidelbergCement. Biodiversity management at our quarries As early as 2010, we began to collect and analyse information about Reclamation plans the biodiversity value of our quarries. In cooperation with our partLand use & biodiversity ner, BirdLife International, we conducted a study to determine how far our quarries are from areas of recognised high biodiversity value 88% We only extract worthwhile deposits if they can be exploited in an environmentally compatible and economical manner. Before making any decision concerning the development of a new quarry in Europe, Africa, and Asia. The study has now been extended to cover all our active extraction sites worldwide. We are collecting data about the proportion of active quarries in areas with a high of our quarries in the cement or the expansion of an existing one, the company first conducts level of biodiversity and for which biodiversity management plans business line have reclamation plans. an extensive approval process in line with the corresponding laws are being implemented. In 2018, this proportion amounted to 47% and regulations. Our sites are operated in accordance with relevant of cement quarries and 41% of aggregates quarries. We are steadily international, national, and local environmental legislation, and extending biodiversity monitoring to more and more quarries and environmental impact assessments are generally prepared as a preimplementing corresponding management plans. requisite for the permitting of quarrying activities. Through this process, we manage our impact on biodiversity in line with the sequential steps of the mitigation hierarchy: avoid, minimise and With their unique opportunities for mitigate. animals and plants, HeidelbergCement’s quarrying sites contribute to the preserConcepts for the limitation of land consumption vation of biological diversity – whether as For environmental and economic reasons, we strive to limit land a refuge for rare species during extraction consumption when planning our quarrying and reclamation activoperations or by creating new habitats ities. As a matter of principle, the authorised raw material supply is always completely extracted in order to minimise land consumponce extraction is complete. tion. We therefore prefer to expand existing quarries rather than Dr. Carolyn Jewell develop new sites. When constructing production and plant faciliSenior Manager Biodiversity and Natural Resources ties, we also take care to use as little land as possible. Global Environmental Sustainability 40 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility 34 Figures, data, facts Protecting biodiversity and habitats 35 Environmental We believe in helping to conserve habitats and biodiversity features management throughout the life cycle of our quarrying sites. Even during the 36 Energy & climate protection extraction phase at an operational site, we can create optimal 39 Alternative fuels conditions for threatened species that are associated with early 40 Land use & biodiversity stages of ecological succession. Through the reclamation process, 42 Local environmental we are also able to create new habitats, such as wetlands and speimpact cies-rich grasslands, and integrate biodiversity features into any 44 Management of supplier relations intended subsequent use. In Europe in particular, our quarries are now important refuges and stepping-stone habitats for specially protected species such as the sand martin, the yellow-bellied toad, the eagle owl, and the Eurasian otter, which are accordingly also the focus of numerous biodiversity projects. In 2018, we introduced our new internal Biodiversity Handbook in Rewilded banksia woodlands at a former extraction site of our subsidiary the various Group countries. The region-specific editions of the handHanson Australia in western Australia. book contain practical advice on creating and managing a variety of habitats as well as guidelines for promoting native species. Special Cooperation with nature conservation organisations chapters on the world’s different climate and vegetation zones make We work with many local nature conservation organisations worldthe handbook even more valuable for the location managers in the wide. Our partnership with the largest international nature conregions. servation organisation, BirdLife International, which we began in 2012, was extended for a further three years in 2018, for the third We published internal guidelines in 2018 to ensure that our busitime in succession. The interaction with BirdLife International and ness activities also comply with new European legislation on invasive our cooperation with its national partner organisations help us to alien species. These guidelines aim to facilitate the identification minimise our impact on the environment and promote biodiversity of problematic invasive subspecies and to explain how they can be at our quarrying sites and in their surroundings. Besides the projcontrolled and, where practical, eliminated. In 2018, to support bioects connected with the Quarry Life Award, almost 30 local projects diversity management at our locations, we also designed a mobile were undertaken at locations in Europe and in African countries app, which should be available in 2019. between the beginning of the partnership and the end of 2018. An interactive map on the BirdLife website provides information about a selection of our joint projects: www.birdlife.org/europe-and-central-asia/project/project-map www.birdlife.org 41 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility 34 Figures, data, facts Quarry Life Award Local environmental impact 35 Environmental management Air pollutants and noise 36 Energy & climate protection In addition to addressing the issues of dust and noise, Heidelberg39 Alternative fuels Cement faces a particular challenge in terms of the air pollutant 40 Land use & biodiversity emissions from the cement business line. While dust and noise are 42 Local environmental emitted from different points in the production process, nitrogen impact oxides, sulphur oxides, and other air pollutants are mainly emit44 Management of supplier relations ted from kiln lines. There are national legal limits that must be observed by all production locations. As part of its Sustainability Commitments 2030, HeidelbergCement has also pledged to reduce air pollutants. By 2030, we aim to reduce the SOX and NOX emissions generated in our cement production by 40% – and dust emissions HeidelbergCement’s research and education competition, the Quarry Life Award, is targeted at scientists, university students, and non-governmental by 80% – in comparison with 2008 levels. This is in addition to our organisations as well as our neighbours in the communities where our facilobjective to continuously reduce all other air pollutant emissions, ities are located. All of these groups are invited to develop and – provided bringing them down below the average of the industry. they qualify to participate in the competition – implement biodiversity-related projects focused on our company’s quarries worldwide. In this way, we want We monitor emissions of air pollutants on an ongoing basis. By to promote the evaluation of the quarries’ biological value and support the development of new methods that benefit scientists and government authorusing new filter technologies and innovative production processes, ities as well as our company. we reduce pollutants and thus mitigate the impact of our activities on the environment and neighbouring communities. For example, The fourth edition of the Quarry Life Award was successfully held in 2018. we made several investments in 2018 to reduce dust emissions: Owing to the positive results of previous editions of the competition, there we replaced the electrostatic precipitators with fabric filters at our were two streams this time round: research and community. In this way, we hoped to ensure a fairer competition for all participants, irrespective of cement plants in Ennigerloh, Germany, and Ketton, United Kingtheir scientific background. A total of 317 project proposals were submitdom; on kiln line 2 in Pukrang, Thailand; and on kiln line 4 at the ted in 25 countries, of which more than 110 were selected to take part in Citeureup location in Indonesia. A number of smaller filter systems the competition. Alongside the winners of the national competitions, three were also modernised. international winners were chosen in each of the two categories, research and community. The main prize, worth €30,000, was awarded to a project in Czechia. This project scientifically verified the importance of active and reclaimed quarries as vital habitats for threatened insect species. www.quarrylifeaward.com 42 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility 34 Figures, data, facts In order to reduce NOX emissions, we installed selective non35 Environmental catalytic reduction (SNCR) systems in the kilns at our Indian plants management in Narsingarh and Yerraguntla. Further optimisations were made 36 Energy & climate protection to existing SNCR systems. We also implemented primary measures 39 Alternative fuels to reduce NOX – for example in Helwan, Egypt, and Aït Baha, 40 Land use & biodiversity Morocco. 42 Local environmental impact To reduce SOX emissions, an old flue gas desulphurisation system at 44 Management of supplier relations the Ribblesdale cement plant in the United Kingdom was replaced by a modern scrubber. Water management Reduction of specific emissions (g/t clinker) 14.3% SOX NOX Dust In Degerhamn, Sweden, a lake formed on abandoned quarrying areas serves as a refuge for numerous species. of our plants are in regions that suffer from water scarcity. In recent years, we have introduced a water reporting system at all of our company’s cement plants. The specific water consumption amounted to roughly 270 litres per tonne of cement in 2018. In 2015, we also started to introduce key figures on water reporting -31% -20% -75% in our aggregates and ready-mixed concrete business lines. As there are more than two thousand locations, implementation is not ex2008–2018 2008–2018 2008–2018 pected to be completed until 2030. In 2014, a global water-risk study supplied us with fundamental information for the creation of a Group-wide guideline concernWater management ing sustainable water management in the cement, aggregates, and HeidelbergCement has committed itself to the goal of minimising ready-mixed concrete business lines. This showed that, taking into the impact of its activities on natural water resources. We comply account the Italcementi locations taken over in 2016, 14.3% of our with stringent environmental regulations to ensure that our raw plants are located in regions that are officially defined as suffering material quarrying will not endanger local bodies of surface water from water scarcity, that is to say, regions where less than 1,000 m3 or groundwater resources. of water is available per person each year. Back in 2015, in response 43 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility 34 Figures, data, facts to the water-risk study, we began developing individual water manin a controlled process. The local operating permit at each plant 35 Environmental agement plans for those plants in regions suffering from water scarspecifies the allowable amount and permissible use of processmanagement city. The plans include concepts and measures to ensure careful use related waste products. 36 Energy & climate protection of scarce water resources and enable local stakeholders to become 39 Alternative fuels involved so that the water utilisation concepts support the common 40 Land use & biodiversity good and thus minimise local water risks. Implementation of these 42 Local environmental Management of supplier relations plans will begin at those locations where water scarcity is an espeimpact cially urgent problem. Our objective is to have water management In the reporting year, HeidelbergCement procured goods and ser44 Management of supplier relations plans in place by 2030 for all plants in regions affected by water vices with a total value of €12,615 million. This corresponds to scarcity. Alongside this process, we are developing a global strategic 69.8% of total revenue. These costs are distributed among the water reduction plan, which aims to coordinate the work at Group various categories as follows: level and reduce water consumption locally, wherever economically and technically possible. Expenditure by category In 2018, we once again reported on the key figures for water from Indirect expenditures 2017 and on our strategy and governance on this topic to the CDP (e.g. IT, (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project). Thanks to our long-term insurance, 10.0% Consumables consulting) 22.2% success and our transparent reporting, we repeated the success of the previous year and achieved an “A-” classification in the “climate 10.7% Investments change” and “water” categories of the CDP company ranking for Energy 21.9% 2018. This distinction confirms HeidelbergCement’s leading role within the industry. 16.6% Raw materials Logistics and www.cdp.net other services 18.6% Waste materials Our primary focus in terms of waste management concerns the kiln dust that is a by-product of clinker production. This dust has to be removed from the kiln systems at several facilities in order to prevent disruptions to proper kiln operations. We generally use the kiln dust as an alternative raw material in cement production, thereby improving our ecological efficiency. In some exceptional cases, the composition of the dust prevents us from being able to recycle it in full. A second possibility for us is to use the kiln dust as a raw material for the production of special concrete. If no other option is available, it can be deposited in underground landfill sites 44 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility 34 Figures, data, facts HeidelbergCement strives to ensure compliance with sustainability Measures for 2019 35 Environmental standards in the supply chain. Group-wide purchasing guidelines In 2019, we will continue to expand the use of the Group-wide online management therefore provide clear instructions regarding our supplier relations platform for supplier management. We will keep consistently seizing 36 Energy & climate protection and purchasing activities. The most important tool used for this opportunities for digitalisation in order to guarantee transparency 39 Alternative fuels purpose is our Supplier Code of Conduct, which we consistently and sustainability in the supply chain. 40 Land use & biodiversity communicate to our global and local suppliers, who are obligated 42 Local environmental to act in line with the principles defined in the Code. The Code The global Supplier Sustainability Initiative will also be implementimpact incorporates the key elements of the SA 8000 International Social ed in additional countries, with the aim of introducing a compre44 Management of supplier relations Accountability Standard, the ISO 14001 international environmenhensive global standard. However, where appropriate, we will also tal standard, and the principles of the International Labour Orgatake into account specific local requirements relating to supplier nization (ILO). If a supplier fails to abide by the Code and does not sustainability. The 2019 rollout will focus on global suppliers who correct a weakness or deficiency that has been identified, this can are new and/or have not yet been reviewed and on Northern and result in the termination of the contractual relationship. Western Europe. Launched in 2017, our Supplier Sustainability Initiative was also further developed and rolled out to other locations in 2018. In coSustainability in the operation with our sustainability partner BROWZ/Avetta, additional supply chain is our countries and suppliers were reviewed according to defined susdaily responsibility. tainability criteria. Particular focus was placed on reviewing critical Dr. Ines Ploss and global suppliers and on the rollout in North America. The proDirector Group Purchasing cess actively monitors our suppliers’ compliance with the principles outlined in the Supplier Code of Conduct. This goes well beyond the previous self-commitment by suppliers to the Supplier Code of Conduct. The rollout of our central online platform for supplier management was also largely completed in 2018. This platform simplifies the systematic recording and consolidation of supplier data as well as its assessment in accordance with the sustainability aspects addressed in our Supplier Code of Conduct. 45 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Employees & Employment 47 Figures, data, facts 48 Principles 48 Employment & co-determination 49 Remuneration policy & working time regulation 50 Occupational health & safety 53 Human resources development 55 Diversity management Picture: Employee at our subsidiary Lehigh Hanson in Camden/New Jersey, USA. 46 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility 47 Figures, data, facts Occupational safety p. 50 f. 48 Principles 48 Employment & 61% co-determination 49 Remuneration policy & working time regulation 50 Occupational health & safety 53 Human resources of all training hours at HeidelbergCement relate to occupational development safety topics. This corresponds to an average of about 17 hours 55 Diversity management per employee across the Group. Ongoing training p. 53 f. Good work needs a 1,350 employees around the world took part in our Cement Academy training sessions in 2018. The course programme comprises all aspects positive environment. of plant operation, optimisation, and maintenance. Diversity p. 55 Attractive working conditions are a key factor in our success. As a manufacturing company, we place high priority on occupational safety Employees from 47 countries and on the protection of our employees’ work at the Group headquarters in Heidelberg, Germany, and in the HTC and CCM technical centers. We benefit considerably from health. their experience and knowledge of our local markets. 47 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility 47 Figures, data, facts Almost 58,000 women and men work for HeidelbergCement worldWe believe that law-abiding and ethical behaviour is a key require48 Principles wide. Their achievements make us one of the leading companies in ment of good leadership and of each and every employee. This is 48 Employment & our sector. That’s why it is crucial to provide them with attractive why the Managing Board has approved a Code of Business Conduct co-determination 49 Remuneration policy & working conditions. As a manufacturing company, we also place that is binding across the Group and specifies our values as well as working time regulation high priority on occupational safety and on the protection of our the ethical and legal standards upheld at our company. In particu50 Occupational health & employees’ health. lar, this includes non-discriminatory employment conditions and an safety open and fair dialogue with employee representatives. 53 Human resources development 55 Diversity management Principles HeidelbergCement also subscribes to the core labour standards of the International Labour Organization (ILO), the OECD Guidelines For us, a good personnel policy means having due and proper refor Multinational Enterprises, and the United Nations’ Universal Employees gard for our employees with their range of talents and wealth of Declaration of Human Rights. Moreover, we have enshrined this experience. And it therefore means creating the right conditions commitment in our Leadership Principles. We expect our employees to allow them to do their job with efficiency and dedication. This and our business partners worldwide to comply with these central 57,939 includes fair remuneration and tailor-made qualification opportunities in addition to a non-discriminatory working environment and flexible conditions that allow them to reconcile professional and guidelines and recommendations. people were employed by HeidelbergCement at the end family demands. Another area of particular importance to us as a Employment & co-determination of 2018. manufacturing company is occupational safety and the protection of our employees’ health. We are proud of the international nature Development of the number of employees worldwide of our workforce, which is made up of local managers and employAt the end of 2018, the number of employees at HeidelbergCement ees from 47 countries at our headquarters and in our technical cencame to 57,939 (previous year: 59,054). The decrease of 1,115 emters in Heidelberg and Leimen. Our employees form the foundation ployees essentially results from two opposing developments. On the of the worldwide success of HeidelbergCement. one hand, around 2,900 jobs were cut across the Group due to portfolio optimisations, the realisation of synergies, efficiency increases Our Leadership Principles prescribe binding rules for personnel in sales and administration, as well as location optimisations. On the management. They concern, for example, respectful behaviour other hand, almost 1,800 new employees joined the Group. This was towards co-workers, employee development, and a commitment primarily a consequence of the company acquisitions in Italy and to our company’s strong feedback culture. The main leadership Australia in the first quarter of 2018. Furthermore, employee numprinciples are embedded in standard human resources processes bers grew in some countries in the Western and Southern Europe and described in detail in HeidelbergCement’s Human Resources and Northern and Eastern Europe-Central Asia Group areas, and in Guidelines. particular in Australia, owing to the solid market development. 48 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility 47 Figures, data, facts In the event of a reorganisation or job cuts, we work in close 48 Principles consultation with employee representatives to achieve a socially 48 Employment & responsible solution. For example, we initially examine the possico-determination 49 Remuneration policy & bility of transferring employees within the Group. If this is not working time regulation feasible, we try to cushion the individual impact through retrain50 Occupational health & ing, early-retirement schemes, outplacement, and severance paysafety ments. 53 Human resources development 55 Diversity management Remuneration policy & working time regulation Our remuneration systems are based on performance and results in accordance with the market standards for internationally operating companies in our sector. Alongside fixed salaries governed Our goal is to attract highly qualified employees worldwide who contribute by a collective agreement or an individual work contract, our to our business success with their social and professional skills. employees also receive variable remuneration elements based on their individual performance and on corporate success. GRI 102-41 Dialogue with employee representatives We consciously aim to achieve a high variable element as part of the Employee co-determination has a long tradition at Heidelbergtotal remuneration of our managers in order to directly reflect the Cement, and it has demonstrated its worth at our locations in connection between personal performance and corporate success. Germany. Members of the employee committees at the individual locations form the General Council of Employees for HeidelbergThe employees in our foreign subsidiaries benefit from attractive Cement AG as well as the Group Council of Employees. Moreover, remuneration systems that correspond to the respective local maremployees are equally represented on the Supervisory Board. ket conditions. Collective regulations apply to more than half of the Group’s employees. Group management and employee representatives also engage in a continuous, constructive dialogue in the European Council of Personnel costs and social benefits Employees. This council supplements the information and consultExpenditure on wages and salaries, social security costs, costs of retireation processes that take place at a local level in the individual ment benefits, and other personnel costs rose by 1.4% in comparison European countries. with the previous year to €3,032 million (previous year: 2,990). This corresponds to a share in revenue of 16.8% (previous year: 17.3%). In addition, there are trade unions and similar organisations in nearly all of the countries in which HeidelbergCement operates. As required by our Code of Business Conduct, we also engage in a fair and open dialogue with representatives of these organisations. 49 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility 47 Figures, data, facts The amount of the contribution to the pension scheme at HeidelbergResponsibility and organisation 48 Principles Cement corresponds to accepted market standards. In Germany, we At HeidelbergCement, all management levels are accountable for 48 Employment & have created a matching model of contributions from the employer occupational health and safety. Our occupational safety organisaco-determination 49 Remuneration policy & and the employees within the framework of the pension scheme. In tion falls within the remit of the Chairman of the Managing Board, working time regulation countries without statutory retirement or health insurance, we supto whom the Director Group Human Resources, who is responsible 50 Occupational health & port our employees at least in line with local practices. for Group Health & Safety, reports directly. The Managing Board safety members who oversee the different Group areas are in turn sup53 Human resources Working time regulation ported by H&S advisors who report directly to them. development 55 Diversity management In our working time regulations, we conform to the legal requirements in effect at our locations. We promote adherence to these Individual occupational health and safety measures designed to regulations by means of our compliance system, which enables emtackle any weak points are defined either by Group Health & Safety ployees to individually report possible violations (passive monitoror the local units, depending on the nature and impact. Occupaing). To promote flexible working time options, we offer models tional safety measures are part of the personal goal agreements such as flexitime, working time accounts, part-time work, and leaves for the Managing Board and the top operations managers in the of absence to our employees in many countries. Older employees various countries, who divide them between relevant target groups have the option of switching to partial retirement. The part-time at location level. Last but not least, each individual employee, conratio at HeidelbergCement AG is 11.6% (previous year: 11.1%); for tractor, and visitor is responsible for following the occupational the Group as a whole, it is unchanged at 2.5%. safety regulations. We want our employees to return Occupational health & safety home at the end of the working day Occupational health and safety has top priority at Heidelbergas healthy as they were when they Cement and is an integral part of our key corporate values. Our began the day. Occupational safety declared aim is to achieve “zero harm”. With effective preventative is therefore the focus of the training measures, we intend to minimise the risk of accidents and injuries as we offer – whether in conventional well as the risk of occupational illness. Our principles for protecting the workforce are specified in our Group policy on occupational classroom training, at the start of the health and safety. shift, or via e-learning. www.heidelbergcement.com/en/occupational-health-and-safety Dr. Klaus Hormann Manager Health & Safety 50 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility 47 Figures, data, facts In all countries, occupational health and safety is subject to legal 48 Principles requirements that have to be fulfilled. Furthermore, as a member of 48 Employment & the Global Cement and Concrete Association (GCCA), Heidelbergco-determination 49 Remuneration policy & Cement is bound by its guidelines. These have been integrated into working time regulation our internal standards. 50 Occupational health & safety As part of our Group policy on occupational health and safety, we have 53 Human resources defined a set of “cardinal rules” that are mandatory for all employdevelopment 55 Diversity management ees and contractors. They relate in particular to those activities that have been identified as main risk areas for accidents. They are therefore also addressed in specific Group standards and must be transOccupational safety lated into local regulations. Through intensive training measures, we aim to ensure that everyone affected remains aware of these risk areas in order to decrease the number of accidents – especially 90% Occupational health and safety has top priority at HeidelbergCement and is an integral part of our key corporate values. those resulting in fatalities. Occupational safety as a management task of our operational sites already In 2018, we once again used Group-wide training initiatives to have a work management system. Occupational health and safety management systems, such as underline the importance of the exemplary role of line managers those in accordance with the internationally accepted OHSAS in occupational health and safety. Participation in these training 18001 standard, have already been implemented in 90% of our sessions was compulsory for managers from all levels. Overall, more locations. These systems require a structured approach from the than 1,100 managers from senior management levels and around local line managers with planning, clear and safe work proced5,650 master craftsmen and foremen at our locations have taken ures, responsibilities, and controls to ensure an ongoing improvepart in training sessions specifically designed for the relevant group ment process and thus prevent accidents. For many years, we have of participants. been improving occupational health and safety at a technical and organisational level, which is also reflected in a reduction in acciWe train our employees in a wide range of occupational safety dent frequency rates. topics that are both legally mandated and defined internally. We make use of conventional training held in classrooms, training Targets and commitments centers, or on site, in addition to e-learning courses, which are only We believe that injuries, occupational illnesses, and work-related ever used to supplement face-to-face training. Occupational safety health impairments are avoidable. That’s why we continuously strive topics account for around 61% of all training hours at Heidelbergto minimise the risks for our employees, contractors, and third parties Cement, corresponding to an average of about 17 hours per and to achieve our goal of “zero harm”, which we reiterated in our employee across the Group. Sustainability Commitments 2030. 51 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility 47 Figures, data, facts Development of accident figures Accident trends for the HeidelbergCement Group 48 Principles Occupational health and safety is one of the core values of our com48 Employment & 2016 2017 2018 pany and therefore a fundamental element of our work processes. co-determination Accident frequency rate 1) 2.5 1.9 1.7 49 Remuneration policy & Our priority is to ensure that employees return home healthy at Accident severity indicator 2) 108 90 70 working time regulation the end of the working day. In 2018, we decreased the accident Fatality rate 3) 0.7 0.4 0.4 50 Occupational health & frequency rate across the Group by 12%. However, the improvesafety ment in comparison with the previous year is not as significant as 1) Number of accidents involving Group employees with at least one lost working day 53 Human resources per 1,000,000 hours worked. expected, and we must therefore continue to focus on suitable 2) Number of working days lost due to accidents involving Group employees per development 1,000,000 hours worked. 55 Diversity management preventative measures. 3) Number of fatalities of Group employees per 10,000 Group employees. It was with great regret that in 2018 we had to announce the death of two of our own employees, who died as a result of accidents Occupational illnesses at work. Furthermore, the lives of eight employees from external The general illness rate at HeidelbergCement has been low for companies were claimed, one of whom died in a road accident. All many years, amounting to around 2% of all hours worked. Most of these fatalities are very painful. We analyse each accident and of the cases of occupational illness acknowledged in recent years share this information across the Group in order to prevent similar have involved noise-induced hearing impairment. In addition, some accidents at other locations. In addition, each fatal accident is preemployees suffered from back problems and other musculoskeletal sented to and discussed by the Managing Board. disorders. In 2018, one accident black spot was traffic accidents occurTo prevent job-related illnesses, we check our work sites for exring during the transportation of our products. Most of these posure to factors hazardous to health and regularly send our emaccidents involve external forwarding companies working on ployees for medical examinations. In countries with less-developed our behalf. We regret that there were also accidents during statutory healthcare systems, our subsidiaries offer comprehensive the reporting year in which third parties suffered fatalities. health check-ups for all employees and in some instances for their In one case, a vehicle travelling at night in Africa collided with families. In regions where HIV/AIDS, Ebola, or malaria frequently a truck that had parked up because of a fault. As an emergency occur, the local units have set up programmes to advise the emmeasure, we have begun to equip hundreds of vehicles used reguployees and inform them of the risks. These services are mostly larly by our African subsidiaries with large reflectors at the front offered through our own medical stations or the medical staff of and rear, ensuring that they are visible at a distance. Working in-house clinics. groups comprising experts from different areas have formulated additional preventive measures for safe transportation, which we will also implement swiftly. 52 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility 47 Figures, data, facts The WASH Pledge Human resources development 48 Principles 48 Employment & Talent management co-determination 49 Remuneration policy & Qualified and motivated employees are an important prerequisite working time regulation for the success of HeidelbergCement. Identifying our employees’ 50 Occupational health & talents, developing them, and – in competition with other compasafety nies – retaining those employees within the Group are therefore at 53 Human resources the core of the Group-wide personnel policy. We use the Heidelbergdevelopment 55 Diversity management Cement competence model to do so. This model defines the essential professional and personal capabilities and skills that are critical for the success of our business. It thus enables the respective superiors to perform systematic, Group-wide assessments of performance and potential in accordance with standardised regulations and serves as a basis for the strategic development of managers and successor planning. Superiors and employees discuss development opportunities and prospects within the framework of structured appraisal interviews. The dialogue is primarily targeted at upper and middle HeidelbergCement actively supports the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goal to ensure that everyone has access to safe and affordable drinking management, those in specialist roles, and future executives. It helps water. In May 2018, we therefore signed the Access to Safe Water, Sanitation, us to attain three goals: and Hygiene (WASH) at the Workplace Pledge, organised by the World Busi– To internally fill key positions with top-class candidates ness Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). By doing so, we made a worldwide commitment to guarantee all our employees have access to drinking water as – To develop top talent at HeidelbergCement in a targeted way well as sanitation and hygiene facilities. The WASH Pledge is consistent with our Sustainability Commitments 2030. – To retain employees in the Group for the long term by means of personalised development planning Signatories can check their progress with the help of a self-assessment tool, which is provided by the WBCSD. The HeidelbergCement Group’s first such Ongoing training internal review was also carried out in 2018 and revealed that most locations Forward-looking HR management means consistently investing in already meet the WASH standards. Above all, we are using the self-assessment tool to continuously improve our processes and to take action where there is training, that is to say, employing and training qualified talent. The still potential for improvement. By 2021, we aim to satisfy all of the requireproportion of apprentices in Germany is 4% (previous year: 5%). ments of the WASH Pledge at our around 3,000 locations. The retention rate of these apprentices stands at 85% (previous year: 82%). 53 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility 47 Figures, data, facts The Cement Academy at our Heidelberg Technology Center (HTC) 48 Principles offers seminars and training sessions around the world for the 48 Employment & engineers and technicians at our cement plants. The course proco-determination 49 Remuneration policy & gramme comprises all aspects of plant operation, optimisation, working time regulation and maintenance. In the reporting year, we significantly intensified 50 Occupational health & the targeted training given to our control room employees via an safety interactive process simulator (virtual cement plant). 53 Human resources development 55 Diversity management A total of 1,350 participants from 40 countries, including 590 participants from the former Italcementi plants, attended 142 training sessions, each lasting up to a week. To supplement our classroom courses, we offer the Cement Manufacturing Curriculum as a multilingual e-learning programme. Overall, more than 3,000 employees have registered for this programme. In the reporting year, the range The targeted training of our control room employees worldwide was our was extended to include a new e-learning programme focusing on Cement Academy’s training focus in 2018. mechanical maintenance – in particular, by connecting internal company knowledge with manufacturer specifications. Technical skills are essential in ensuring the functionally sound The Aggregates Academy also continued its employee training operational management of process technology and maintenance offer in the aggregates business line. Over 180 training sessions in our plants. For a few years already, we have offered multilingual on the topic of aggregates were held in 18 countries. These were e-learning courses about cement production, specifically developed mostly carried out locally in the form of practical exercises at proby the German Cement Works Association (VDZ). duction sites for the plant management teams. To ensure continuous improvements in our production processes, there was addAs in the previous year, a focus of our training programmes throughitional training in 2018 across all levels of hierarchy, covering new out the Group was on occupational safety, which made up around content in the areas of maintenance, fleet management, tech61% (previous year: 50%) of the total training measures. Other prinical sales, asphalt, and use of digitalisation measures. The training orities were specialist training, which accounted for 23% (previous materials and courses from both academies are generally available year: 28%), and the training of our managers, which represented in the respective language of the country. The training programme 4% (previous year: 5%). is supported by local managers who have been instructed in adult education techniques (train-the-trainer concept). Our extensive training programmes in virtually every work area are characterised by practical and business-oriented learning and enable our employees to develop their skills. 54 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility 47 Figures, data, facts Strengthening digital competences In the reporting year, we consistently pursued our efforts to advance 48 Principles Following the successful integration of Italcementi, the topic of digifuture executives. We offer highly motivated and qualified univer48 Employment & tal transformation will be an area of focus for 2019. From an HR sity graduates international trainee programmes focusing on the co-determination 49 Remuneration policy & perspective, this includes building and expanding our digital comfollowing areas: technology, sales, finance, HR, purchasing, and IT. working time regulation petences, supporting change processes for digital transformation, In addition, interdisciplinary trainee programmes have been avail50 Occupational health & and digitalising personnel processes and systems. Our efforts are able since 2017. Around the world, we have also further expanded safety focused on fundamental digital media skills as well as topics related our programmes for the advancement of future executives and con53 Human resources to specific functions. For employees who are increasingly involved tinued to intensify our recruitment of university graduates and graddevelopment 55 Diversity management in digitalisation projects, we will provide targeted training on manuates with first professional experience. In 2018, we hired 327 (preaging development processes geared towards customers and target vious year: 254) university graduates overall. Currently, 474 (previous groups (design thinking) and on agile project methodology. year: 719) employees are taking part in programmes that prepare Recruiting future executives them for more advanced tasks. The lower figure, compared with Management training the previous year, results primarily from the structural adjustment to The motivation and skills of our managers play a crucial role in personnel in Egypt in the context of the integration of Italcementi 327 determining how well HeidelbergCement positions itself among its global competitors and how prepared the Group is for future challenges. In order to prepare our managers for their future tasks, we and from the change in training priorities. Through a special programme, we prepare highly qualified enginuniversity graduates were hired offer training programmes tailored specifically to the needs of our eers in the cement business for senior engineering positions. The by us in 2018. company. This applies both to traditional topics, such as strategy, participants undergo individually tailored training programmes leadership, and management or the method of capital expenditure that allow them to gain the necessary knowledge, skills, and experibudgeting, and to special training topics, for instance in the area ence to prepare them for the next stage of their career. Spending of technology. Uniform training content ensures that a common time at cement plants that are operated in exemplary fashion in understanding of strategy, integrated management approach, and different countries is a key element of the programme’s success. leadership is developed everywhere. Securing and advancing future executives Diversity management Since 2013, HeidelbergCement has been awarded the trainee seal of the “Initiative for career-enhancing and fair trainee pro­grammes” Generation management each year for its high-quality programmes for the ad­vancement of Like many companies in western industrial countries, we too are future executives. As a member of the Fair Company initiative, we faced with the consequences of demographic change. Around 12% have been voluntarily committed to the creation of fair working (previous year: 12%) of our employees are under the age of 30. The conditions for trainees and young professionals since 2004 and have majority of the employees are aged between 30 and 49, making up carried the Fair Company seal since then. around 54% (previous year: 52%) of the Group’s total workforce, and 34% (previous year: 36%) of our employees are over 50 years of age. 55 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility 47 Figures, data, facts We are responding to the effects of demographic change with Our goal is to attract and advance highly qualified and committed 48 Principles numerous measures adapted to regional requirements. In Geremployees around the world who can bring various social and pro48 Employment & many, for example, we have continued to develop our health fessional skills to our company and thus contribute to our business co-determination 49 Remuneration policy & management activities and have incorporated them in the FIT for success. working time regulation LIFE initiative. This includes a prevention programme for the early 50 Occupational health & diagnosis of illnesses and risk factors, but primarily focuses on The international composition of our management team enables us safety the initiative of individuals to adopt a healthy lifestyle. The focal to benefit from a broad range of experience and different cultural 53 Human resources points in 2018 included examinations for skin cancer prevention backgrounds, thereby allowing us to respond more flexibly both to development 55 Diversity management and flu vaccinations. global challenges and to local market needs. The proportion of local managers at the upper management level amounts to around 79%. In the future, our health management activities will continue to Diversity focus on preventing typical age-related health risks and supporting At our Group headquarters, we consciously aim to ensure that the health-conscious behaviour. We are therefore specifically promotworkforce is composed of employees from the countries in which ing company sports activities for all age groups. we operate. We benefit considerably from their local knowledge, 79% Diversity as a success factor When putting together teams of employees, it is our Group-wide and this also facilitates cooperation with the local personnel. We have 639 employees at the Group headquarters and at our technical centers, the Competence Center Materials and Heidelberg Technolwas the proportion of local personnel policy to prioritise diversity. We understand diversity as a ogy Center in Heidelberg and Leimen, with 421 of these employees managers at our upper management level in 2018. management concept that brings together different cultures, percoming from Germany and 218 from 46 other countries. sonalities, talents, and levels of experience in a way that reflects the international and multiform character of our markets, our customer In early 2013, we signed the Diversity Charter as an affirmation of structure, and our business environment. We achieve this goal with all our activities in this area to date and as a public statement of our the following measures: respect for diversity. To mark German Diversity Day in 2018, we held – Local country management and therefore an international a Diversity Week at our Group headquarters in Heidelberg, featurmanagement team ing a wide range of lectures, panel discussions, and workshops. – An international workforce at the Group headquarters https://www.charta-der-vielfalt.de/en/ – A complementary composition of management and other teams (internationality, expertise, experience, age, gender, etc.) – Women in management positions reflecting the proportion of women in the total workforce in Germany 56 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility 47 Figures, data, facts A good work-life balance is becoming We have worked consistently on the promotion of women in the 48 Principles last few years and achieved significant success. The proportion of 48 Employment & increasingly important and is now an women in programmes for the advancement of future executives co-determination integral component of our company. 49 Remuneration policy & across Germany is 26% (previous year: 36%) and therefore signifiHeidelbergCement supports its employcantly higher than the proportion of women in the total workforce. working time regulation 50 Occupational health & ees with numerous ways of combining The lower figure, compared with the previous year, is the result of safety demanding professional goals with a short-term cohort effect. We have made good progress in the 53 Human resources development their own private lives. appointment of women to leadership positions in staff functions. 55 Diversity management Anna Toborek The global NOW – Network of Women at HeidelbergCement is an Director Group Corporate Finance initiative that brings together female employees worldwide. NOW is implemented on a country-by-country basis through personal exchange of information and experiences, as well as special, one-off Women in leadership positions events. For us, diversity also means that we reflect the ratio of women to men in our workforce as a whole when hiring to fill management It aims, among other things, to support the network’s members positions. Within the Group, women made up 13% of the total in developing their career potential and to increase awareness workforce and held 10% of the upper management positions in throughout the company of the changing demands on working and 2018. According to the legislation on the promotion of women in living environments. leadership positions, companies in Germany have to define targets for the proportion of women in the two leadership levels below the Improving the work-life balance Managing Board. Managers who report directly to the Managing As we compete for the best employees, we are adapting to changing Board form the first level at HeidelbergCement, and any of their lifestyles around the world. In terms of what we offer to encouremployees with leadership responsibility form the second level age a good work-life balance, we focus on models such as flexitime, below the Managing Board. part-time, and leave of absence. Because of the small size of our locations, cooperation with external networks has proven itself, for In 2018, the proportion of women in leadership positions in Germany example with respect to children’s day care and holiday programmes at the first level below the Managing Board was 12% (previous year: or caring for family members. Employees benefit from having easy 11%), and 13% (previous year: 11%) at the second level. The aim is access to a professional and flexible network at reasonable costs. As to increase the proportion of women in Germany in both leadership part of our FIT for FAMILY initiative, we have entered into cooperlevels below the Managing Board to 15% by the end of June 2022. ation with day-care centers for the location in Heidelberg, Germany. These arrangements mean we have our own quota of places to offer our employees. 57 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Society & Corporate Responsibility 59 Figures, data, facts 60 Social responsibility 61 Social engagement at our locations 62 Local conflicts of interest Image: Children creating a pool for yellow-bellied toads at the Nußloch quarry in Germany. 58 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility 59 Figures, data, facts Dialogue p. 60 60 Social responsibility 61 Social engagement “Being a good at our locations 62 Local conflicts of interest neighbour” is one of the six goals in our Sustainability Commitments 2030. We involve the communities near our production sites in our business activities, for example through various dialogue formats, as well as through local community engagement plans. CSR management p. 61 Creating local value. We have production sites almost everywhere Transparency and around the globe. Through our entrepreneurial activities, we create added value for the efficiency are at the heart of our social engagement. This is why, among communities in which we operate. We are also other things, we have developed a simplified tool for measuring involved in community projects at our sites. the impact and quality of CSR projects. Responsibility p. 61 7,000 have been raised by prospective managers at our subsidiary Hanson UK in the United Kingdom. As part of their training, they have four months to develop projects in the local community. 59 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility 59 Figures, data, facts As a global Group with a strong regional presence, we act according We involve local communities in our activities, for example through 60 Social responsibility to the principle “think global – act local”. Our business operations various dialogue formats, as well as through local community 61 Social engagement also create added value for the communities at our locations across engagement plans. This also includes long-term partnerships with at our locations 62 Local conflicts of the world. Beyond our business activities, we are also committed local non-governmental organisations. Moreover, we keep the cominterest to protecting the environment and promoting social progress. munities at our locations informed by means of newsletters, open days, and so on. The Group Handbook for Community Relationship Management is a useful source of design and implementation stratGRI 102-40, 102-43 Social responsibility egies for dialogue formats, partnerships, and charitable involvement for countries and locations. Good cooperative relationships with the communities in the areas where we are active are indispensable for our business operations In addition, the Group-wide Corporate Citizenship Policy defines and one of the keys to our business success. In these areas, we estabthe general criteria and objectives related to our social engagelish business contacts, capitalise on local know-how, and maintain ment. This engagement is focused on three areas in which we have a dialogue with our neighbours. By making this voluntary commitspecific expertise and can achieve the best results for society: ment to society, we strengthen the exchange of ideas and achieve – Building, architecture, and infrastructure: We provide practical long-term socio-economical added value for local communities. help in the construction of buildings and infrastructure by making products, financial means, and expertise available. We have made an explicit commitment to social responsibility in the – Environment, climate, and biodiversity: We support initiatives Leadership Principles adopted by our Managing Board. Social rethat promote environmental protection and strengthen the sponsibility and maintaining good relationships with our stakeholddiversity of nature at our locations. ers are therefore management tasks. Together with the site man– Education, training, and culture: In this area, we are guided agers, all country managers are responsible for these tasks in their by the specific needs of our locations. respective countries. This also includes understanding local needs as well as selecting, implementing, and monitoring community We have also defined evaluation criteria in order to ensure that our projects. Given the decentralised nature of these responsibilities, it is activities are both transparent and effective. We support projects, not possible at present to make a statement as to the financial scope initiatives, and organisations that are active at our locations or to of this Group-wide social engagement. which we have a direct link. We attach great importance to ensuring that the guidelines and principles of these organisations align with our own corporate philosophy. 60 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility 59 Figures, data, facts In 2018, the Group took further steps to strengthen the processes “Being a good neighbour” is 60 Social responsibility and improve the management structure of our social engagement 61 Social engagement one of the goals listed in our in the various countries. The aim is to make our CSR activities more at our locations Sustainability Commitments 2030. 62 Local conflicts of systematic and more transparent as well as more efficient and targeted. For example, we developed a simplified tool for measuring We aim to increase the focus of interest the impact of CSR projects and evaluating their quality. Building on our social engagement in this topic the existing Anti-corruption Policy, we published an internal inforin the future. Transparency and mation brochure containing recommendations specifically on the efficiency will be our priorities here. topic of corruption and CSR. We also worked with Group Internal Audit to develop an audit programme for our social engagement. Tobias Hartmann CSR Manager The exact wording of our Corporate Citizenship Policy can be found here: https://www.heidelbergcement.com/en/society Social engagement at our locations As part of the Sustainability Commitments 2030, we defined the To meet our responsibilities on the ground and strengthen local following concrete performance indicators that will allow us to communities, we took a number of measures and promoted various measure the quality of our relationships with the communities at initiatives during 2018. In the United Kingdom, for example, we are our locations: also incorporating our social commitment into the training of our – Percentage of locations holding at least one community future managers. As part of their training, they have four months dialogue per year to develop their own project in the local community and procure – Total value of annual donations (monetary/material donations) the necessary resources. In 2018, they collected financing and – Number and type of development programmes supported by materials with a value of over £7,000. The company also benefits HeidelbergCement from the young employees’ newly acquired skills. – Hours of voluntary charitable work per year In Germany, we have been pursuing the project “Kooperation We are currently developing a management and reporting system Industrie-Schule” (KIS) for some years in Heidelberg, where our for this area so that in the future we will be able to record relevant headquarters are located, and in several locations of our plants. measures, progress, and performance indicators more effectively. This cooperation between industry and schools includes activities, ranging from plant visits and special lectures at many schools to holiday programmes and supervised work with KiTec boxes, which help children to discover the world of technology. Both sides benefit from this cooperation: For the children, it facilitates the access to technology, and our employees benefit from the experience gained from dealing and talking with the pupils. 61 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility 59 Figures, data, facts this territory was, however, dismissed by the Supreme Court of Israel 60 Social responsibility Commitment to disadvantaged young people at last instance in a legally binding ruling on 26 December 2011. The 61 Social engagement quarrying of aggregates was thus deemed as being in compliance at our locations 62 Local conflicts of with international law, since it offers advantages to the Palestinian interest population and makes hardly any impact on local resources. The Palestinian people benefit economically from our quarrying activities, as these create valuable jobs in an area otherwise plagued by high unemployment. Palestinians from the occupied territories account for more than 60% of the workforce in our quarry in the West Bank, and the wages we pay them are many times higher than the local average. We have carefully examined this issue with our local management team. Our subsidiary also takes care to ensure that Israeli and Palestinian employees are treated and paid equally. Here, we place high priority on close cooperation in intercultural teams that promote an In 2018, we supported local communities near our sites with numerous measures and projects. Our subsidiary Hanson UK in the United Kingdom is exchange between our Israeli and Palestinian employees and thus integrating social engagement into the training of our future managers: an understanding between these two groups in a conflict-ridden participants in Hanson UK’s management development programme have region. Moreover, our quarrying activities have virtually no impact been working for several months with local initiatives and are implementon the region’s abundant reserves of raw materials, which will last ing projects that they have developed themselves and financed by raising for several centuries. funds. In 2018, this included the construction of an outdoor kitchen for the Jamie’s Farm charitable project. Jamie’s Farm is committed to providing experience-based educational opportunities for disadvantaged young people. We respond in a transparent manner to all enquiries from nongovernmental organisations and interest groups. Furthermore, we are holding a dialogue with individual investors on the developGRI 102-43 Local conflicts of interest ment of this issue and offering face-to-face talks with local leaders and employees as well as tours of the facility. In recent years, allegations have been made that the business operations of a quarry belonging to our Israeli subsidiary, which is We received all required mining concessions, without exception, belocated in the area of the West Bank occupied and administered by fore we commenced our quarrying activities. As part of our action Israel (Area C), are not in conformance with international standards. plan to optimise our portfolio, which we launched in November A lawsuit filed by an Israeli human rights organisation concerning 2018, we decided to sell the quarry in the West Bank. The sale prothe general cessation of aggregates mining by foreign companies in cess began at the start of 2019. 62 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Targets 64 Strategy & Management 64 Business & Compliance 65 Product & Innovation 65 Production & Supply Chain 66 Employees & Employment 67 Society & Corporate Responsibility Image: Employees at our subsidiary Betongindustri in Sweden. 63 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Strategy & Management Target Measures Achieved in 2018 Deadline Status Page Commitment to sustainable cement production at industry Continuation of the reporting on the implementation of the In 2018, the environmental and occupational safety indicators Ongoing 77 and association level. GCCA guidelines for cement production. The KPIs collected by were once again subjected to an external audit in line with the GCCA correspond to those of its predecessor organisation GCCA stipulations. CSI (Cement Sustainability Initiative), on which the auditing in previous years was based. Business & Compliance Target Measures Achieved in 2018 Deadline Status Page Further development of the Group compliance programme Following the introduction of a Group human rights position In 2018, human rights risk analyses were carried out in Ongoing 21–24 and of Group compliance activities with regard to current in 2017: rollout of concrete measures, including implemenone-third of the country organisations. developments. tation of a human rights risk analysis. Target: risk assessment for all countries in which HC is active. Between 2018 and 2020, one third of the country organizations are scheduled to be audited each year. Continuous improvement of customer satisfaction. Introduction of the Net Promoter System (NPS) at HeidelbergNet Promoter System introduced in 35 countries. Ongoing 27 Cement in 2015 – for the ongoing analysis of customer – NPS score for HeidelbergCement Group: satisfaction and needs, in order to continuously improve the 2016: 48% customer experience and our business results. 2017: 47% 2018: 45% Continuous improvement of efficiency and margins in all Continuation of global Continuous Improvement The programmes proved very successful in 2018 and yielded Ongoing 7, business lines. Programmes for cost and process optimization in the results that exceeded expectations. AR aggregates (Aggregates CI), cement (CIP), and concrete 2018: (CCR) business lines. 24–27 Efficient use of resources in order to earn a premium on our Disciplined investment and cash flow management. ContinuROIC of 6.9% compared with the weighted average cost of Ongoing 21–22, cost of capital. ation of programmes to increase efficiency. capital (WACC) of 6.3%. AR 2018: 44 Target achieved Target partly achieved Target not achieved New target 64 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Product & Innovation Target Measures Achieved in 2018 Deadline Status Page Identification of sustainable products in the HeidelbergDevelopment of a product evaluation tool (PET) and Introduction of the PET tool in 7 countries: Germany, 2023 32 Cement portfolio. introduction in a selection of representative countries. Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Belgium, Czechia, and Poland, with a revenue share of 11.43%. Extension of the application of the PET Tool to a selection of Reporting will begin in 2019. countries with revenue amounting to at least 25% of Group revenue. Innovation in the areas of alternative clinker technology, Expansion of capacity in the area of research and technology. Consistent continuation of research and cooperation in the Ongoing 27–32 building materials recycling, and special concretes. This includes participation in and coordination of a research area of low-CO2 clinker technology, building materials project in Germany to develop practice-oriented concepts for recycling, and special concretes. the use of recycled aggregates in concrete production. Production & Supply Chain Environmental management All integrated cement plants are to operate with a certified Implementation of an action plan for the Group-wide control 96% of all integrated cement plants worldwide operate with 2020 35, 70 environmental management system. and monitoring of the ongoing introduction of certified an environmental management system. The figure was 89.3% environmental management systems. in 2017. CO2 emissions and alternative raw materials and fuels Reduction of the specific net CO2 emissions by 30% over the Investment for research in the following areas: energyAs at 2018: 2030 27–31, period from 1990 to 2030. efficient production processes, CO2 capture and use, – Reduction of approx. 20% to 599.2 kg CO2 per tonne of 36–39, composite cements with reduced clinker content, and new cement 71 clinker technologies. Increased use of alternative fuels and biomass. Investment for research into technologies for CO2 capture and CO2 recycling. Lowering clinker content of cement to 70%. Development of new composite cements. Use of alternative As at 2018: 2020 30, 72 raw materials. – Clinker proportion: 74.7% (previous year: 75.3%) Increasing the share of alternative fuels used to 30%. Focus on three waste flows: sorted fractions of household As at 2018: 2030 36–39, and domestic waste with high calorific values, sewage sludge, – Proportion of alternative fuels: 21.7% (previous year: 72 and hazardous waste. 20.8%) Target achieved Target partly achieved Target not achieved New target 65 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Production & Supply Chain Target Measures Achieved in 2018 Deadline Status Page Local environmental effects Monitoring of water consumption in all business lines. Monitoring of water consumption and introduction of key – Monitoring of water consumption in the cement business 2030 43/44, Implementation of measures to reduce consumption where figures on water reporting initially in the cement business line line. Specific water consumption in 2018: 269.9 L/t cement 73 economically and technically feasible. and subsequently in the concrete and aggregates business (previous year: 306.5 L/t cement). lines. Implementation of water management plans at all sites – Development of initial individual water management plans located in water scarcity areas. for cement plants. Measuring emissions of heavy metals, volatile organic Continuous emission measurements. As at 2018: Ongoing 72 compounds (VOC), and dioxins/furans at all locations. – 112 kilns report on mercury emissions (previous year: 107) – 125 kilns report on dioxins/furans (previous year: 111) Lowering emissions per tonne of clinker (reference year: 2008): Continuous optimization and modernization of processes As at 2018: 2030 42–44, – Dust: by 80% (best available technology, or BAT) in the cement plants. – Dust: -75% 72 – Nitrogen oxides: by 40% – Nitrogen oxides: -20% – Sulphur oxides: by 40% – Sulphur oxides: -31% Subsequent use and biodiversity management Restoration plans for 100% of the active quarries for cement Continuous expansion of restoration plans. As at 2018: 2030 40, 73 and aggregates (in Europe, Africa, and Asia). – In the cement business line: 88% (previous year: 80%) – In the aggregates business line: 76% (previous year: n/a) Implementation of biodiversity management plans at 100% Development of training documentation and manuals; As at 2018: 2030 40/41, of quarries in areas with a high biological value (in Europe, provision of corresponding training on site. Continuous – In the cement business line: 47% (previous year: 43%) 73 Africa, and Asia). expansion of biodiversity management plans. – In the aggregates business line: 41% (previous year: 38%) Employees & Employment Target Measures Achieved in 2018 Deadline Status Page Reduction of accident frequency and the accident severity Group-wide training initiative on the importance of manAs at 2018: Ongoing 50–52, indicator to zero for Group employees. agement responsibility in occupational health and safety. – Accident frequency rate: 1.7 (previous year: 1.9) 76 Introduction of safety conversations as an additional – Accident severity indicator: 70 (previous year: 90) Group-wide management instrument. Analysis of the causes Occupational safety topics accounted for around 60% of all of accidents for the entire Group and implementation of training hours at HeidelbergCement, corresponding to almost appropriate preventative measures. 7 hours per employee. Reduction of the number of fatalities to zero for Group Group-wide training initiative on the importance of manAs at 2018: Ongoing 50–52, employees. agement responsibility in occupational health and safety. – Fatality rate: 0.4 (previous year: 0.4) 76 Introduction of safety conversations as an additional Group-wide management instrument. Analysis of the causes of accidents for the entire Group and implementation of appropriate preventative measures. Target achieved Target partly achieved Target not achieved New target 66 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Employees & Employment Target Measures Achieved in 2018 Deadline Status Page Implementation of the WASH Pledge of the World Business Performing a self-assessment to monitor the success of the Signing of the WBCSD’s WASH Pledge. Performing a self2021 53 Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). implementation, and publication of the results. Aspects assessment regarding fulfilment of the requirements in monitored include compliance with local regulations and 20 countries in Africa, Europe, Asia, and Australia. Evaluation laws, the supply of drinking water to the workplace, and of the results: requirements in the areas of access to water access to sanitation and hygiene at the workplace. and sanitary facilities around 90% fulfilled; requirements in the area of hygiene around 80% fulfilled. Share of women in management positions (first level) in Targeted support of women by means of appropriate manAs at 2018: 2022 57, 75 Germany: 15%. agement programmes and programmes for the advancement – Share of women in management positions in Germany: 12% Share of women in management positions (second level) in of future executives. at first management level, 13% at second management level Germany: 15%. – Share of women in programmes for the advancement of future executives in Germany: 26% Sustainable talent management. Key positions are filled internally with top-class candidates As at 2018: Ongoing 53–55 worldwide. – 29% of all positions are filled internally (worldwide) – 47% of all positions within Group functions at the headquarters are filled internally Promoting diversity in the workforce. Promoting an international composition of the workforce As at 2018: Ongoing 55 f. at Group headquarters, bringing together different cultures, – 218 international employees from 46 countries at Group talents, and experiences, and reflecting the company’s presheadquarters (of a total of 639 employees) ence on international markets. Society & Corporate Responsibility Target Measures Achieved in 2018 Deadline Status Page Ensuring transparent communication with stakeholders. Strengthening of contact with stakeholders and intensification Expansion and strengthening of communication with stakeOngoing 60/61 of dialogue on both local and Group levels. Development of holders at national level. Formulation of an auditing guidelines for country organisations to ensure structured programme in cooperation with Group Internal Audit for involvement of local players. the area of CSR. Support for the economic and social development of Provision of in-kind and monetary donations for non-profit Strengthening of the donation process and collection of data Ongoing 60/61 neighbouring communities. organisations as well as the development of strategic “shared in the various countries. Development of a simplified tool to value” projects. Development and promotion of corporate evaluate the quality of project proposals. Preparation of a volunteering. leaflet on measures to prevent corruption in the area of CSR. Implementation of numerous projects to support the local community in the various countries. Target achieved Target partly achieved Target not achieved New target 67 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Appendix 69 Key figures 77 About this report 78 GRI content index 84 Imprint Image: Cement plant in Burglengenfeld, Germany. 68 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Key figures Strategy & management 2016 2017 2018 Unit Assurance 1) Revenue/result Total Group revenue 15,166 17,266 18,075 € million Result from current operations before depreciation and amortisation 2,887 3,297 3,074 € million Result from current operations 1,928 2,188 1,984 € million Profit for the financial year 831 1,058 1,286 € million Group share of profit 657 918 1,143 € million Dividend per share 1.60 1.90 2.10 € Earnings per share 3.40 4.62 5.76 € Investments in tangible fixed assets Including maintenance, optimisation, and environmental protection measures 1,040 1,035 1,061 € million Depreciation and amortisation 959 1,109 1,090 € million Balance sheet Equity (including non-controlling interests) 17,792 15,987 16,822 € million Balance sheet total 37,120 34,558 35,783 € million Net debt 8,999 8,695 8,367 € million Material costs and other operating expenses 5,874 6,782 7,478 € million Expenditure on research and technology 116.6 141.0 145.7 € million Group sales Cement and clinker: – Western and Southern Europe 22.4 28.9 30.8 million t – Northern and Eastern Europe-Central Asia 24.2 25.9 25.6 million t – North America 14.6 16.4 16.2 million t – Asia-Pacific 28.7 34.7 36.9 million t – Africa-Eastern Mediterranean Basin 12.7 19.0 19.7 million t – Total 102.8 125.7 129.9 million t Aggregates: – Western and Southern Europe 67.4 78.5 81.3 million t – Northern and Eastern Europe-Central Asia 37.0 52.3 51.3 million t – North America 118.8 120.8 123.4 million t – Asia-Pacific 39.2 41.5 43.4 million t – Africa-Eastern Mediterranean Basin 10.1 12.4 10.1 million t – Total 272.0 305.3 309.4 million t 1) External assurance of the key figures for 2018 within the framework of the Annual Report 2018 or in line with our obligation with regard to the Global Cement and Concrete Association (GCCA). The KPIs collected by the GCCA correspond to those of its predecessor organisation CSI (Cement Sustainability Initiative), on which the assurance in previous years was based. 69 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Strategy & management 2016 2017 2018 Unit Assurance 1) Group sales Ready-mixed concrete: – Western and Southern Europe 15.0 17.3 17.5 million m3 – Northern and Eastern Europe-Central Asia 6.2 6.9 7.0 million m3 – North America 6.3 6.8 7.1 million m3 – Asia-Pacific 11.0 10.6 11.6 million m3 – Africa-Eastern Mediterranean Basin 3.7 5.1 5.3 million m3 – Total 42.5 47.2 49.0 million m3 Asphalt: – Western and Southern Europe 3.0 3.3 3.6 million t – North America 4.0 4.0 4.1 million t – Asia-Pacific 1.8 1.8 2.1 million t – Africa-Eastern Mediterranean Basin 0.5 0.6 0.5 million t – Total 9.4 9.6 10.3 million t Cement type portfolio – Ordinary Portland cement 44.5 40.0 39.0 % – – Limestone cement 15.6 17.7 18.0 % – – Pozzolana/fly ash cement 7.9 7.5 9.2 % – – Slag cement 11.4 13.4 12.1 % – – Multi-component cement 17.1 18.4 18.5 % – – Oilwell/white cement 0.7 0.7 0.6 % – – Masonry cement/special binder 1.2 0.9 0.8 % – – Ground granulated blast furnace slag 1.6 1.4 1.7 % – Share of integrated cement plants with a certified environmental management system 75.0 89.3 96.0 % – Production facilities in which independent – Cement – 68 71 % – environmental audits have been carried – Aggregates – 68 83 % – out within the last five years 1) External assurance of the key figures for 2018 within the framework of the Annual Report 2018 or in line with our obligation with regard to the Global Cement and Concrete Association (GCCA). The KPIs collected by the GCCA correspond to those of its predecessor organisation CSI (Cement Sustainability Initiative), on which the assurance in previous years was based. 70 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Product & innovation 2016 2017 2018 Unit Assurance 1) Sustainable construction Sales of recycled aggregates – – 3.4 million t – Membership of Green Building Councils and Sustainable Infrastructure Councils 12 11 12 number – Revenue from sustainable products Share of revenue 2) – – 11.43 % Production & supply chain 1990 2016 2017 2018 Unit Assurance 1) Reduction in CO2 emissions Cement business line: – Absolute gross CO2 emissions 84.7 74.4 74.2 76.7 million t – Absolute net CO2 emissions 83 70.4 70.3 72.7 million t – Specific gross CO2 emissions (per tonne of cementitious material) 755.5 638.9 636 627.5 kg CO2/t – Specific net CO2 emissions (per tonne of cementitious material) 748 610.5 607.6 599.2 kg CO2/t – Indirect CO2 emissions 9.7 4.2 4.7 5.3 million t Energy/raw materials Absolute energy consumption: – Cement 463,702 375,342 371,765 382,321 TJ – whereof clinker production 397,523 318,750 315,745 324,299 TJ – Aggregates n/a 8,026 8,109 9,203 TJ – Specific energy consumption: – Cement 4,175 3,254 3,215 3,152 MJ/t – whereof clinker production 4,365 3,670 3,622 3,569 MJ/t – Aggregates n/a 31.0 31.0 32.1 MJ/t – Fuel mix for clinker production: – Hard coal 51.4 48.6 48.2 47.1 % – Lignite 0.0 1.8 2.2 2.1 % – Petroleum coke 8.6 17.7 19.0 18.4 % – Natural gas 18.4 9.9 7.8 8.2 % – Light fuel oil 0.7 0.2 0.2 0.2 % – Heavy fuel oil 15.9 1.9 1.5 2.1 % – Other fossil fuels 2.1 0.1 0.3 0.2 % – Alternative fossil fuels 2.7 12.8 13.1 13.3 % – Biomass 0.2 6.9 7.8 8.4 % – Proportion of biomass in mix of alternative fuels 6.3 35.2 37.4 38.7 % 1) External assurance of the key figures for 2018 within the framework of the Annual Report 2018 or in line with our obligation with regard to the Global Cement and Concrete Association (GCCA). The KPIs collected by the GCCA correspond to those of its predecessor organisation CSI (Cement Sustainability Initiative), on which the assurance in previous years was based. 2) Collected since 1 January 2018 in GER, BE, NL, PL, CZ, NOR, SWE. 71 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Production & supply chain 1990 2016 2017 2018 Unit Assurance 1) Energy/raw materials Alternative fuel mix for clinker production: – Plastics 1.6 25.3 25.3 26.8 % – Waste oil 29.0 6.8 3.4 3.2 % – Used tyres 17.1 11.8 11.8 12.1 % – Solvents 30.8 4.3 7.6 6.0 % – Dried sewage sludge 0.0 2.5 2.1 2.0 % – Meat and bone meal 0.0 4.0 4.2 3.8 % – Agricultural waste and waste wood 0.0 3.7 3.7 6.5 % – Other biomass 6.3 25.0 27.4 26.4 % – Other alternative fuels 15.1 16.6 14.6 13.2 % Proportion of alternative fuels (incl. biomass) 2.9 19.7 20.8 21.7 % Clinker content in cement 81.8 75.2 75.3 74.7 % Proportion of alternative raw materials: – Clinker n/a 3.6 2.7 3.1 % – – Cement n/a 12.0 11.1 11.3 % – 2008 2016 2017 2018 Unit Assurance 1) Emissions Absolute NOX emissions 84,571 92,814 119,642 114,514 t Specific NOX emissions 1,585 1,343 1,373 1,263 g/t clinker Absolute SOX emissions 27,007 21,746 31,989 31,858 t Specific SOX emissions 506 315 367 351 g/t clinker Absolute dust emissions 17,043 8,031 7,862 7,272 t Specific dust emissions 319 116 90 80 g/t clinker Proportion of clinker produced in kilns with continuous or discontinuous measurement of all emissions: 65 86 87 83 % Proportion of clinker produced in kilns with continuous measurement of dust, NOX, and SOX emissions: 87 83 88 90 % Mercury: – Specific emissions n/a 0.028 0.034 0.030 g/t clinker – Number of kilns reporting n/a 77 107 112 – Dioxins and furans: – Specific emissions n/a 0.018 0.059 0.035 µg TEQ/t clinker – Number of kilns reporting n/a 78 111 125 – 1) External assurance of the key figures for 2018 within the framework of the Annual Report 2018 or in line with our obligation with regard to the Global Cement and Concrete Association (GCCA). The KPIs collected by the GCCA correspond to those of its predecessor organisation CSI (Cement Sustainability Initiative), on which the assurance in previous years was based. 72 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Production & supply chain 2016 2017 2018 Unit Assurance 1) Biodiversity and conservation of resources Proportion of quarries in areas with a high biological value, with biodiversity management plan: – Cement – 43 47 % – – Aggregates – 38 41 % – Proportion of active quarries with a restoration plan: – Cement – 80 88 % – – Aggregates – – 76 % – Water management (cement) Total water withdrawal 52.6 60.4 65.4 million m3 By source: – Surface water 27.9 29.3 33.6 million m3 – Groundwater 7.3 9.7 9.5 million m3 – Seawater 2.3 2.3 3.2 million m3 – Public/private water supply 4.2 5.2 5.5 million m3 – External wastewater 0.0 0.1 0.0 million m3 – Quarry water 9.1 9.4 9.4 million m3 – Collected rainwater 1.7 4.5 4.1 million m3 Total water discharge/wastewater 23.6 25.2 33.1 million m3 – By place of discharge: – Surface water 19.8 21.2 27.7 million m3 – – Groundwater 0.0 1.0 0.0 million m3 – – Seawater 2.7 2.7 1.2 million m3 – – External water treatment systems 0.6 0.7 1.2 million m3 – – Other discharge area 0.5 0.6 0.6 million m3 – Water consumption (water withdrawal minus wastewater discharge) 29.0 35.2 32.2 million m3 – Quarry water not used 62.7 64.2 57.1 million m3 – Specific water withdrawal for cement 551.2 526.2 547.8 L/t Specific water withdrawal for clinker 756.6 692.8 721.2 L/t Specific water consumption for cement 303.9 306.5 269.9 L/t – Specific water consumption for clinker 417.1 403.5 355.4 L/t – 1) External assurance of the key figures for 2018 within the framework of the Annual Report 2018 or in line with our obligation with regard to the Global Cement and Concrete Association (GCCA). The KPIs collected by the GCCA correspond to those of its predecessor organisation CSI (Cement Sustainability Initiative), on which the assurance in previous years was based. 73 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Employees & employment 2016 2017 2018 Unit Assurance 1) Employees and employment Number of employees as at 31 December: – Western and Southern Europe 15,781 15,497 15,903 employees – Northern and Eastern Europe-Central Asia 13,107 13,531 12,515 employees – North America 8,444 8,726 8,750 employees – Asia-Pacific 14,956 14,039 14,086 employees – Africa-Eastern Mediterranean Basin 7,602 6,856 6,214 employees – Group Services 534 405 472 employees – Total 60,424 59,054 57,939 employees Employee turnover: – Western and Southern Europe 11 13 14 % – – Northern and Eastern Europe-Central Asia 13 15 14 % – – North America 14 18 20 % – – Asia-Pacific 10 11 9 % – – Africa-Eastern Mediterranean Basin 11 13 5 % – – Total 12 13 13 % – Personnel costs and social benefits: – Wages, salaries, social security costs 2504.0 2801.8 2816.0 € million – Costs of retirement benefits 138.3 153.3 176.4 € million – Other personnel costs 31.2 34.6 39.3 € million – Total 2673.5 2989.7 3031.7 € million Proportion of part-time employees (Group) 2.4 2.5 2.5 % – Proportion of part-time employees (HeidelbergCement AG) 11.4 11.1 11.6 % Age structure (Group): – Younger than 30 12 12 12 % – 30–49 52 52 54 % – 50 and older 36 36 34 % 1) External assurance of the key figures for 2018 within the framework of the Annual Report 2018 or in line with our obligation with regard to the Global Cement and Concrete Association (GCCA). The KPIs collected by the GCCA correspond to those of its predecessor organisation CSI (Cement Sustainability Initiative), on which the assurance in previous years was based. 74 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Employees & employment 2016 2017 2018 Unit Assurance 1) Employees and employment Share of female employees (Group) 13 13 13 % Share of female employees in top management positions (Group) 10 10 10 % Share of female employees in programmes for the advancement of future executives (Group) 14 22 22 % – Share of female employees (Germany) 16 16 15 % Share of female employees in top management positions (Germany) 7 9 9 % Share of female employees N-1 (Germany) 10 11 12 % Share of female employees N-2 (Germany) 9 11 13 % Share of female employees in programmes for the advancement of future executives (Group) 28 36 26 % Share of local managers in senior management positions (Group) 76 74 79 % Proportion of disabled employees: – Germany 4.1 4.3 4.1 % – – HeidelbergCement AG 4.6 4.4 4.8 % – Apprenticeships and employee training Employees in programmes for the advancement of future executives 875 719 474 individuals Training hours per employee 26 26 28 hours – Structure of training hours: – Management training 5 5 4 % – Soft skills training 5 4 3 % – Specialist training 31 28 23 % – Occupational safety training 47 50 61 % – Language courses 3 4 3 % – Other 9 9 5 % Percentage of trainees in Germany 5 5 4 % Percentage of trainees retained as permanent employees in Germany 91 82 85 % 1) External assurance of the key figures for 2018 within the framework of the Annual Report 2018 or in line with our obligation with regard to the Global Cement and Concrete Association (GCCA). The KPIs collected by the GCCA correspond to those of its predecessor organisation CSI (Cement Sustainability Initiative), on which the assurance in previous years was based. 75 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Employees & employment 2016 2017 2018 Unit Assurance 1) Occupational health and safety Accident frequency 2) 2.5 1.9 1.7 Accident frequency, cement business line 1.4 1.4 1.0 Accident severity indicator 3) 108 90 70 Accident severity indicator, cement business line 72 69 44 Fatality rate 4) 0.7 0.4 0.4 Fatality rate, cement business line 1.4 0.8 0.4 Number of fatalities: – Group employees 4 2 2 individuals – Employees of other companies 5 9 8 individuals – Third parties 2 3 19 individuals – thereof outside our plants 1 2 19 individuals Accident frequency by region: – Western and Southern Europe 5.2 3.2 2.1 – – Northern and Eastern Europe-Central Asia 2.8 2.3 2.2 – – North America 2.1 1.7 1.6 – – Asia-Pacific 1.2 1.1 1.2 – – Africa-Eastern Mediterranean Basin 1.3 0.9 1.4 – Occupational illness rate 5) 0.58 0.94 0.91 – Illness rate 6) 1.93 1.95 1.90 – Proportion of employees represented by H&S committees 99.8 98.4 99.8 – Proportion of employees represented by H&S committees with trade union representation 7) 93.0 93.0 91.1 – 1) External assurance of the key figures for 2018 within the framework of the Annual Report 2018 or in line with our obligation with regard to the Global Cement and Concrete Association (GCCA). The KPIs collected by the GCCA correspond to those of its predecessor organisation CSI (Cement Sustainability Initiative), on which the assurance in previous years was based. 2) Number of accidents involving Group employees with at least one lost working day per 1,000,000 hours worked. 3) Number of working days lost due to accidents involving Group employees per 1,000,000 hours worked. 4) Number of fatalities of Group employees per 10,000 Group employees. 5) Number of officially recognised occupational illnesses suffered by Group employees per 1,000,000 hours worked. 6) Proportion of working hours lost due to illness relative to the total number of working hours (excluding Egypt, Morocco, North America, and United Kingdom, as the general illness hours are not recorded there). 7) The lower proportion is due to the lack of appropriate trade unions in several countries. 76 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility About this report GRI 102-40, 102-45, 102-46 HeidelbergCement is publishing a Group Sustainability Report for the tenth time. In this Some of the key figures on environmental protection and occupational safety from the publication, we explain how the company is fulfilling its economic, environmental, and cement business line were once again subject to an independent limited assurance and social responsibilities and report on the progress we have made in 2018. The report is are marked as such in this report. As a member of the GCCA, we are required to have aimed at our employees, investors and analysts, and business partners as well as political these key figures reviewed. The results of this audit can be found on our website: players and non-governmental organisations. https://www.heidelbergcement.com/en/sustainability-report Report content and organisation Data collection This Sustainability Report has been prepared according to the GRI Standards of the Methods and systems that have been defined across the Group are used to collect data internationally recognised Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The report has been created at our business locations. Internal reporting and consolidation of the data take place via in accordance with the GRI Standards (Core option). At the same time, it is our annual centralised electronic KPI data management systems at the Group; here, the key figures progress report (Communication on Progress) on the status of the implementation of the are checked for completeness and credibility. Uniform Group-wide definitions of all the ten principles of the UN Global Compact (UNGC). relevant key figures, as well as process guidelines for the reporting processes, are available GRI content index p. 78 ff. on the intranet. When deciding on the most important sustainability themes for the articles in our report, Information about the editing process we were guided by the GRI principles (materiality, stakeholder inclusiveness, sustainability This Sustainability Report is published in German and English. The editorial deadline was context, completeness). We continuously refine our reporting processes in line with these 31 May 2019. The previous Sustainability Report was published in July 2018. In line with standards. this annual reporting cycle, the next report will be published in 2020. Materiality analysis: p. 17 f. Disclaimer of liability Precise definition and methodology of the report We have compiled the information and key figures contained in this report with extreme This Sustainability Report for 2018 deals with the 2018 financial year, which runs from care. All of the contents of this report were examined by the employees responsible for 1 January to 31 December. The key facts and figures included in this report correspond this task. However, we cannot completely exclude the possibility that this report includes to those in the consolidated financial statements and the Group management report of erroneous information. The report and the information contained in it do not constitute HeidelbergCement’s Annual Report 2018. This also applies to the facts and figures cona test of compliance with the current laws, legal regulations, or recognised sustainability cerning our employees. In 2016, we adjusted the consolidation of the key environmental practices in the industry. figures to the international accounting standards. In accordance with the revenue consolidation process, joint ventures are not taken into account, even retrospectively. We report our key figures for environmental performance and occupational safety according to the guidelines of the Global Cement and Concrete Association (GCCA). The guidelines in their original wording: http://bit.ly/GCCAGuidelines 77 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility GRI content index The Sustainability Report 2018 was available to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) for the implementation of the GRI Materiality Disclosures Service. The correct positioning of the materiality disclosures (102-40 to 102-49) in the report was confirmed by the GRI Services team. GRI standard Page Comments UN GC principle GRI 101: Foundation 2016 GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 Organisational profile GRI 102-1: Name of the organisation 6, 84 GRI 102-2: Activities, brands, products, and services 6, 8/9, 70 GRI 102-3: Location of headquarters 48 GRI 102-4: Location of operations 6, 22 GRI 102-5: Ownership and legal form AR 2018 p. 17 GRI 102-6: Markets served 6, 8/9 GRI 102-7: Scale of the organisation 7, 22, 69/70, 74 GRI 102-8: Information on employees and other workers 74 6 GRI 102-9: Supply chain 8, 44 GRI 102-10: Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain – In the reporting year, there were no significant changes. GRI 102-11: Precautionary principle or approach 24 GRI 102-12: External initiatives 2/3, 13–15, 21, 36/37, 41, 44, 53, 56 GRI 102-13: Membership of associations 11, 16/17, 31 Strategy GRI 102-14: Statement from senior decision-maker 2/3 1–10 GRI 102-15: Key impact, risks, and opportunities 11–15; AR 2018 p. 53 ff. Ethics and integrity GRI 102-16: Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour 2, 22, 45, 48 10 GRI 102-17: Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 22/23 10 78 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility GRI standard Page Comments UN GC principle Governance GRI 102-18: Governance structure 13/14, 21; AR 2018 p. 102 ff. GRI 102-19: Delegating authority 13/14 GRI 102-20: Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics 13/14, 23/24, 35, 50, 52 GRI 102-21: Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics 15–17 GRI 102-22: Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 49; AR 2018 p. 102 ff. GRI 102-23: Chair of the highest governance body AR 2018 p. 102 ff. GRI 102-24: Nominating and selecting the highest governance body AR 2018 p. 102 ff. GRI 102-25: Conflicts of interest AR 2018 p. 11 GRI 102-26: Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy 13/14, 35; AR 2018 p. 10, 21 ff. GRI 102-27: Collective knowledge of highest governance body AR 2018 p. 10 GRI 102-29: Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts 14/15, 17 GRI 102-30: Effectiveness of risk management processes 24 GRI 102-31: Review of economic, environmental, and social topics 23/24; AR 2018 p. 74 ff. GRI 102-33: Communicating critical concerns 15-17; AR 2018 p. 74 ff. GRI 102-35: Remuneration policies 3, 13, 49/50; AR 2018 p. 91 ff. GRI 102-36: Process for determining remuneration AR 2018 p. 91 ff. Stakeholder GRI 102-40: List of stakeholder groups 15–17, 27, 60, 77 engagement GRI 102-41: Collective bargaining groups 49 3 GRI 102-42: Identifying and selecting stakeholders 15–17 GRI 102-43: Approach to stakeholder engagement 15–17, 27, 60, 62 GRI 102-44: Key topics and concerns raised 16–18, 32 Reporting GRI 102-45: Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 77 practice GRI 102-46: Defining report content and topic Boundaries 17, 77 GRI 102-47: List of material topics 18 GRI 102-48: Restatements of information – In the reporting year, the information was not restated. GRI 102-49: Changes in reporting – In the reporting year, there were no changes in reporting. GRI 102-50: Reporting period 77 GRI 102-51: Date of most recent report 77 GRI 102-52: Reporting cycle 77 GRI 102-53: Contact point for questions regarding the report 84 GRI 102-54: Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 77 GRI 102-55: GRI content index 78 GRI 102-56: External assurance 77 79 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility GRI standard Page Comments UN GC principle Material topics GRI 201: Economic GRI 103: Management approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 12 7 performance 2016 GRI 201-1: Direct economic value generated and distributed 21/22, 49, 69, 74 GRI 201-2: Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to 14/15; AR 2018 p. 81 ff. 7 climate change GRI 201-3: Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 50; AR 2018 p. 161 ff. GRI 201-4: Financial assistance received from government 31, 37/38 GRI 202: Market GRI 103: Management approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 12, 22 6 presence 2016 GRI 202-2: Proportion of senior management hired from the local community 22, 56, 75 6 GRI 203: Indirect economic GRI 103: Management approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 12, 22, 59-61 impacts 2016 GRI 203-2: Significant indirect economic impacts 22, 59 GRI 204: Procurement GRI 103: Management approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 22 practices 2016 GRI 204-1: Proportion of spending on local suppliers 20, 22 GRI 205: AntiGRI 103: Management approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 14, 20, 22–24, 61, 64 10 corruption 2016 GRI 205-1: Operations assessed for risks related to corruption AR 2018 p. 64 10 GRI 205-2: Communication and training about anti-corruption policies 20 We do not currently report on trained em10 and procedures ployees by region and employee category because the data is not available. We plan to introduce a data collection process and report on this data in the future. GRI 205-3: Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 24 10 GRI 206: Anti-competitive GRI 103: Management approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 14, 20, 22–24, 64 behaviour 2016 GRI 206-1: Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, antitrust, and 24; AR 2018 p. 74–85 monopoly practices GRI 301: Materials 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 13/14, 30–32, 34/35, 65 7–9 GRI 301-1: Materials used by weight or volume 30, 44; AR 2018 p. U2 We do not report on the weight or volume 7, 8 of the materials used, as this information is subject to confidentiality. This information is relevant to competition. We report on sales. GRI 301-2: Recycled input materials used 30 7, 8 GRI 302: Energy 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 13–15, 26–28, 34–36, 39, 65 7–9 GRI 302-1: Energy consumption within the organization 39, 71/72 7, 8 GRI 302-3: Energy intensity 71 8 GRI 302-5: Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 26–28, 30 7–9 80 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility GRI standard Page Comments UN GC principle GRI 303: Water 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 13/14, 35, 43/44, 65/66 7, 8 GRI 303-1: Water withdrawal by source 73 7, 8 GRI 303-3: Water withdrawal 73 8 GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 13/14, 34/35, 40–42, 65/66 8 GRI 304-1: Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, 40, 73 We do not report on the details for each 8 protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas extraction site, as this is not possible due to the large number of extraction sites involved. GRI 304-2: Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity 40–42 8 GRI 304-3: Habitats protected or restored 41 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 11, 13–15, 26–28, 30, 34–39, 7–9 42/43, 65/66 GRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 71 7, 8 GRI 305-2: Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 71 7, 8 GRI 305-4: GHG emissions intensity 71 8 GRI 305-7: Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulphur oxides (SOX), and other significant air emissions 72 7, 8 GRI 306: Effluents and GRI 103: Management approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 13/14, 35, 40, 44, 65 8 waste 2016 GRI 306-1: Water discharge by quality and destination 73 8 GRI 307: Environmental GRI 103: Management approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 13/14, 20, 22–24, 35 8 compliance 2016 GRI 307-1: Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 35 8 GRI 308: Supplier environGRI 103: Management approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 21, 34/35, 45 8 mental assessment 2016 GRI 308-2: Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 45 8 GRI 401: Employment 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 47/48, 57 6 GRI 401-1: New employees hires and employee turnover 48, 74 We do not report data on new hires and 6 employee turnover by gender and age group because the data is not available and not material to us. GRI 401-2: Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to 49/50 temporary or part-time employees GRI 402: Labour/ GRI 103: Management approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 48/49 3 management relations 2016 GRI 402-1: Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 49 3 81 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility GRI standard Page Comments UN GC principle GRI 403: Occupational GRI 103: Management approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 13/14, 47/48, 50–52, 56, 67 1, 6 health and safety 2016 GRI 403-1: Workers representation in formal joint management-worker health 76 and safety committees GRI 403-2: Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, 52, 76 We do not report the information broken absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities down by gender and region as this information is subject to confidentiality. It may not be recorded in part for reasons of privacy. GRI 403-3: Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 52, 76 GRI 404: Training and GRI 103: Management approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 47/48, 53–55, 67 6 education 2016 GRI 404-1: Average hours of training per year per employee 75 We do not report average training hours 6 by gender and employee category because the data is not available. We plan to introduce a data collection process and report this data in the future. GRI 404-3: Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 53 6 development reviews GRI 405: Diversity and GRI 103: Management approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 48, 55–57, 67 1, 6 equal opportunity 2016 GRI 405-1: Diversity of governance bodies and employees 55–57, 74/75; AR 2018 p. 102 ff. 6 GRI 405-2: Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men – Our Code of Business Conduct sets out 6 fair working conditions for all employees. Naturally, this also includes equal pay for women and men. GRI 406: NonGRI 103: Management approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 20–24, 48 6 discrimination 2016 GRI 406-1: Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 24 6 GRI 407: Freedom of GRI 103: Management approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 20/21, 23, 45, 48 2, 3 association and collective GRI 407-1: Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and 23, 45, 48 2, 3 bargaining 2016 collective bargaining may be at risk GRI 408: Child labour 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 20/21, 23, 45, 48 2, 5 GRI 408-1: Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labour 23, 45, 48 2, 5 GRI 409: Forced or GRI 103: Management approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 20/21, 23, 45, 48 2, 4 compulsory labour 2016 GRI 409-1: Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or 23, 45, 48 2, 4 compulsory labour GRI 411: Rights of indigenous GRI 103: Management approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 62 people 2016 GRI 411-1: Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples 62 82 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility GRI standard Page Comments UN GC principle GRI 412: Human rights GRI 103: Management approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 20/21, 23, 64 1, 2 assessment 2016 GRI 412-1: Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact 23 2 assessments GRI 412-2: Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 23 GRI 412-3: Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human 21, 23, 45 rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening GRI 413: Local GRI 103: Management approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 59–61, 67 1 communities 2016 GRI 413-1: Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and 59–61 1 development programs GRI 414: Supplier social GRI 103: Management approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 21, 23, 45, 50 2 assessment 2016 GRI 414-2: Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 23, 45 2 GRI 416: Customer GRI 103: Management approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 27 health and safety 2016 GRI 416-1: Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories – We sell standardised products whose effects have been analysed in detail. Specific safety data sheets are required for all these products and are made available to customers. GRI 418: Customer GRI 103: Management approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 20/21, 27 privacy 2016 GRI 418-1: Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and – We are not aware of any justified complaints losses of customer data regarding violations of the protection or loss of customer data. GRI 419: Socioeconomic GRI 103: Management approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 20/21, 64 compliance 2016 GRI 419-1: Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area 24 83 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Imprint Copyright © 2019 Concept and graphic realisation HeidelbergCement AG akzente kommunikation und beratung gmbh Berliner Straße 6 TEAMKOM Kommunikation+Design 69120 Heidelberg, Germany Translation Editorial deadline Target Languages GmbH 31 May 2019 Picture credits Responsible on behalf of the publisher HeidelbergCement’s photographic archive; Christoph Beumelburg, Matthias Müller, Ilvesheim, Germany: Director Group Communication and page 2; Steffen Fuchs, Heidelberg, Germany: Investor Relations pages 5, 19, 34, 47, and 58; Jochen Roeder, Heidelberg, Germany: page 14; Katharina Plonsker, CLS Architetti, Milan, Italy: page 16; Project Management Sustainability Report Mario e Pietro Carrieri, Milan, Italy: page 25; Daniele Domenicali, Bologna/ Contact Italien: page 26; Pete Lacker, Dallas, USA: Phone: +49 (0) 6221 481-13227 page 46; Mustapha Lahrouchi, Safi, Morocco: Fax: +49 (0) 6221 481-13217 page 49; Ola Axman, Stockholm, Sweden: E-mail: sustainability@heidelbergcement.com page 63; Klaus Kugler, Burglengenfeld, www.heidelbergcement.com Germany: page 68. Pictograms: Fotolia, rotwerk visuelle kommunikation (p. 8 and 9) This Sustainability Report is also available in a German-language edition. 84 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2018 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility
