Sustainability Report 2018 Content Content 2018 in brief..........................................................................................3 HEXPOL in brief...................................................................................4 CEO comments on the year..................................................................5 Corporate responsibility .................................................................... 7 Materiality Analysis..........................................................................7 Sustainability strategy .................................................................... 8 Open communications...................................................................... 8 The basis for sustainability work.................................................... 8 Creating value for the stakeholders............................................ 11 Objectives and performance measures........................................ 14 Environmental responsibility......................................................... 15 Core technologies, products and environmental aspects.......... 15 Environmental legislation ........................................................... 17 Environmental management systems ........................................ 17 Energy consumption...................................................................... 18 Water consumption......................................................................... 19 Polymers and other chemical products........................................ 19 Emissions to the atmosphere ....................................................... 21 Waste................................................................................................ 22 Innovative solutions generating green growth.......................... 22 Accidents and complaints............................................................. 23 Social responsibility.......................................................................... 24 Employees......................................................................................... 24 Human rights.................................................................................. 25 Diversity and equality................................................................... 25 Skills development......................................................................... 25 Health and safety............................................................................ 25 Social involvement.......................................................................... 27 Economic responsibility.................................................................... 28 Sustainable development and finance......................................... 29 Financial value for stakeholders.................................................. 29 Sustainability-related risks............................................................. 30 Highlights during 2018.................................................................... 32 About the Sustainability Report ................................................... 35 Scope and boundary......................................................................... 35 Reporting principles........................................................................ 36 GRI Index 2018.................................................................................. 37 Global Compact – Communication On Progress........................... 40 Definitions.......................................................................................... 42 Group companies................................................................................ 44 2 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 2018 in brief HEXPOL IN BRIEF Key performance indicators 2018 Sales 2018 Earnings per share Proposed dividend 13,770 4.78 MSEK SEK 2.25 SEK Sales, msek Operating profit, msek Operating margin, % 15,000 2,500 20 12,500 2,000 15 10,000 1,500 7,500 10 1,000 5,000 5 2,500 500 0 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Earnings per share, sek Equity/assets ratio, % Operating cash flow, msek 5 80 2,500 70 4 60 2,000 50 3 1,500 40 2 30 1,000 20 1 500 10 0 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Significant sustainability events in 2018 4Energy optimization through energy surveys and 4 Continued focus on reducing the environmental investments in energy-smart lighting and production impact of our products – around 15% of the polymer equipment. raw materials were produced from recycled plastic ­ 4 Purchase of fossil-free electricity, energy optimizaand rubber. tion, and increased use of biofuel, contributed to a 4 Reduced number of workplace accidents and lost lower carbon footprint – 24% of the energy consumed workdays – successful implementation of preventive was produced from non-fossil sources. measures in the HEXPOL Rubber Compounding Americas’ organization. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 3 HEXPOL in brief HEXPOL in brief The HEXPOL Group comprises two business areas: HEXPOL Compounding and HEXPOL Engineered Products, with a total of 4,635 employees and 47 production units in the Americas, Europe and Asia. Business Area HEXPOL Compounding Business Area HEXPOL Engineered Products Operations Sales Operations The Business Area HEXPOL Compounding is HEXPOL Engineered Products holds ­global one of the world’s leading suppliers in the strong positions in gaskets for plate heat development and manufacturing of high93% exchangers and in polyurethane, rubber and quality advanced polymer compounds for plastic wheels for forklifts and ­material demanding applications and demanding end handling. The operations are organized into 7% users. HEXPOL Compounding comprises five two product areas, ­HEXPOL Gaskets and parts: HEXPOL Rubber Compounding, which HEXPOL Wheels. is divided into the three geographical regions of the ­Americas, Europe and Asia and the two product areas HEXPOL TPE Compounding and HEXPOL TP Compounding. Operating profit Market Market HEXPOL Compounding’s market is global Within its niche areas, HEXPOL ­Engineered and the largest end-customer segments are 93% Products operates in the ­global market with the automotive and engineering ­industries, a keen focus on dis­cerning customers and followed by the building and construction 7% advanced applications. HEXPOL is a leading sector. Other important customer segments supplier of rubber gaskets that are used in are the transportation sector, the energy, plate heat ex­­changers and of polyurethane oil and gas sector, the consumer sector, the forklift wheels. cable and wire industry and manufacturers of medical technology. Customers Number of Customers Customers are manufacturers of polymer employees HEXPOL Engineered Products’ customers products and components who impose are usually major global OEM manufacturers rigorous demands on quality, global delivery with market leading positions and for whom capacity and product development. 69% HEXPOL’s products are frequently of vital importance for the quality and ­service life of the finished product. 31% Sales Sales 12,745 msek 1,025 msek (2017: 11,326 msek) (2017: 904 msek) Operating profit Operating profit 2,006 msek 144 msek (2017: 1,873 msek) (2017: 113 msek) Number of employees (31 December) Number of employees (31 December) 3,211 1,424 (2017: 2,955) (2017: 1,429) 4 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 CEO Comments on the year CEO comments on the year Welcome to our Sustainability Report 2018. It is our aim to present information in a transparent and informative way and therefore report according to best practices based. The report will give you an insight into risks, opportunities, objectives and achievements – during the previous year but also in a longterm perspective. It will also provide information about our commitment to UN Global Compact. Good results in business 2018 was a strong year for the HEXPOL Group. We again managed to both increase our sales and achieve greater profit. We continued to strengthen our market positions in our main markets. We are very pleased with our two latest strategic acquisitions, Kirkhill Rubber and Mesgo Group. These acquisitions have given us a better position within ­advanced elastomers and have broadened our geographical presence in three new countries and have strengthen our position in western US. Good results in sustainability work It is pleasing to see that the entire organization ­exhibited considerable commitment within sustainable development, and contributed practical, concrete solutions within a number of areas while creating value for our stakeholders. Many good initiatives are presented in this report and I would like to highlight a couple areas of progress: It is obvious that no one should go to work to get hurt, and we are convinced that with a strong focus on health and safety the risks can be managed. One good SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 5 CEO Comments on the year example is the successful program of preventive of rubber and plastic materials. We are very proud of the measures in the HEXPOL R ­ ubber Compounding products we make using the amazing properties of polymers. Americas’organization. We can now observe a downAt the same time, we realize that many of the polymers ward trend in the number of accidents at work as we use come from oil, a non-renewable raw material that a result of the program. contributes to climate change.  Energy and climate-change issues are since long high Nonetheless, we are seeing that more customers want on our agenda. During the year we continued with to move towards ‘greener polymers’, and I am convinced ­several energy optimization projects and increased that our know-how, and experience to use bio-based and ­purchases of fossil-free electricity and use of solar recycled materials, will create business opportunities. energy. Around 24 percent of the energy consumed Finally, I would like to thank empolyees, customers, was produced from non-fossil sources. suppliers and shareholders for your confidence and excellent cooperation during 2018. I am convinced that we can  We continued to work to reduce the environmental further develop the HEXPOL Group in a positive direcimpact of our products – around 15 percent of the tion, and that responsibility for environment and people polymer raw materials were produced from recycled is an important part of ­HEXPOL’s continual development plastic and rubber. We can also see increased interest process and an important part of our long-term business in the Dryflex Green products. Dryflex Green is TPE strategy. ­containing raw materials from renewable resources such as plant and vegetable crops. Malmö, Sweden, March 2019 Focus on greener polymers Our concept and core business are based on manufacturing Mikael Fryklund polymer compounds and products, primarily various types 6 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility Taking responsibility for people, the environment and society is a feature of our corporate culture and sustainability work creates value for the Group’s stakeholders. The environ­ment, occupational health and safety, social responsibility and business ethics are therefore ­important components in the day-to-day work and long-term strategic planning. The a ­ mbition is to contribute to a better environment and to reduce climate impact, satisfy society’s ­requirements and expectations and generate business opportunities. Materiality Analysis for which areas are examined in greater detail in sustainaWithin the framework of the ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 bility reporting and which GRI indicators are used. The and ISO 50001 standards, HEXPOL’s businesses endeavor end of the report (pages 37-39) contains a list of the GRI to identify and manage issues relating to environment, indicators to which we refer. health and safety, and energy. This involves not only The Materiality Analysis provides insight into which identifying risks, but also looking for opportunities issues are important to our stakeholders and for the within sustainable development. Analyses of risks and Group’s business strategy. The chart shows the issues opportunities, combined with requirements and expectathat were identified in 2018 as significant and the Sustaitions from a range of stakeholders, provide the basis for nability Report describes how these issues are managed the Materiality Analysis. This is based on sustainability and monitored. As a background to the overall analysis, reporting standards (GRI) and provides the background feedback is regularly sought from the Group’s companies. High 1. Good business ethics 2. Customer requirements in sustainable development 1 3. Attractive employer 4 2 Significance for HEXPOL’s business strategy 4. Legal requirements in sustainable development 5. Use of chemical products 8 5 3 6. Polymers in a life-cycle perspective 18 7. Energy and climate 8. Safe and stimulating work environment 9 7 6 9. 10. Sustainability issues in connection with acquisitions Suppliers’ sustainability work 14 11 10 11. 12. Social commitment Emissions to air and water 12 13. Sustainability issues in developing countries 15 16 13 14. 15. Equality, human rights Soil contamination 17 16. Environmental impact of transport 19 17. 18. Requirements from investors Waste 19. Nuisance to surroundings (noise, odur) Medium High Significance for HEXPOL’s stakeholders SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 7 Corporate responsibility The Group’s priorities in sustainable development are during the year of operations. At the Group level, matters based on the analysis, with areas considered particularly related to strategy, risks, follow-up and sustainability important being customer requirements in sustainable reporting, as well as sustainability issues, are addressed development, good business ethics, being an attractive in conjunction with corporate acquisitions. employer, and legal requirements. Other priority areas are energy, climate, safe working environment, human Open communications rights and hazardous chemical substances. Other issues HEXPOL aims to provide shareholders, and other players taken very seriously are polymer products in a life-cycle on the capital market, with relevant information that perspective, and sustainability in the supply chain. For offers a basis for accurate valuation of the Group. The several of the key areas, long-term targets and key perobjective is to apply a candid and factual approach and formance indicators have been established. provide a high level of service in financial reporting. This is aimed at strengthening confidence in the company Sustainability strategy among existing and potential shareholders. Assessing raw materials, processes and products from a The Group complies with customary accounting lifecycle perspective is a prerequisite for responsible busi­policies, applies internal controls and drives processes ness. Accordingly, preventive environmental and work ­to ensure that accounting and reporting comply with environment efforts are part of the management systems. ­l­­egislation, ordinances and listing agreements. We apply Social responsibility and sound business ethics are other a policy of transparency in its reporting and, in line with strategic issues that create fundamental pre­requisites for the Group’s Communication Policy, provides well-­founded, the Group’s business operations. The long-term strategy comprehensive information to the market. ­Corporate builds on stakeholders’ requirements and expectations governance is described in the Corporate Governance with the intention of: Report in the Annual Report 2018 on pages 64–69 and is  Integrating sustainability issues into strategic available at www.hexpol.com. All published financial ­planning and budgeting. information is also available on the website, as are presentations, press releases, financial statements, annual  Reducing risks and costs through preventive reports and sustainability reports. measures, risk assessments and investments in The sustainability work is communicated in several effective technical solutions. ways. The legal requirements and the GRI ­standards’  Generating business opportunities through respon(Global Reporting Initiative) requirements regarding consible conduct, and developing resource-efficient tent, structure and indicators, are used as the foundation ­production methods and products. for the Sustainability Report. In the area of climate, a  Working systematically aided by certified manageseparate report is submitted in accordance with the ment system for the environment, quality, work Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). According to the requireenvironment and energy. ment in the Global Compact, a report is ­submitted to the  Being an attractive employer and an active UN each year and, since 2018, sustain­ability data (ESG: corporate citizen. Environment, Social, Governance) is presented at the Nasdaq Listing Center. The sustain­ability performance  Applying sound business ethics and preventing is reviewed regularly by independent institutions and ­corruption. investors, and expectations regarding transparency and  Communicating openly about sustainable developmeasurable performance have increased considerably in ment. recent years. Governance and follow-up The basis for sustainability work Sustainable development is part of the Group’s strategic Laws, guidelines, standards, global objectives and planning and budget process. The practical work is decen­voluntary initiatives form the foundation for sustain­ tralized with managers within the Group’s companies ability work. The Group’s fundamental values are applied being responsible for policies, targets and results. The in the same way in all operations worldwide: activities are followed up by Group management through  Materializing Our Values is the Group’s Code of dialogues with the companies’ management and through ­Conduct and functions as an ethical compass in internal and external audits. In connection with the Susmatters involving legal responsibility, accounting, tainability Report, an in-depth analysis is conducted of conflicts of interest, working conditions, the environcompliance with legislation, goal fulfillment and how the ment, social responsibility and business ethics. The companies performed and of key performance indicators EXAMPLES OF ACTIVITIES THAT CONTRIBUTE TO SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2013 2014 2015 • Supplier Sustainability Guideline implemented and • Materializing Our Values introduced. • Supplier Sustainability Guideline introduced. more than 800 suppliers evaluated. • Increased use of biofuels. • Sustainability objectives updated. • Energy-efficiency measures and continued introduction • Energy-efficiency enhancements yield positive results. • Update of Materializing Our Values – whistleof ISO 50001. • Continued phase-out of hazardous chemicals. blowing. • DryFlex Green introduced – TPE from renewable resources. • Activities to rouse the interest of students • Successful energy-efficiency projects implemented. • Carbon impact reduced through increased use of in the polymer industry. • Additional units ISO 14001 certified. biofuels. • Adaptations to GRI G4 initiated. • The use of biofuels is increasing. • Group-wide training in business ethics conducted. 8 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Corporate responsibility Business Ethics Guideline* Insider Equal Health Supplier Financial IT Communication Environmental Policy and Opportunities & Safety Sustainability Policy** Policy** Policy Policy Guidelines Policy Policy Guideline * Supported by a Compliance Program relating to Competition and Anti-trust law. ** Policies available for all employees but not externally distributed. Code of Conduct also contains policies within the  Supplier Sustainability Guideline guides the com­pany’s environment, work environment and other areas. suppliers in environmental and work environment  The Business Ethics Guidelines guide employees in matters, human rights, business ethics and the matters concerning what is and what is not permitted supplier’s value chain. in commercial contacts with customers, suppliers, ­competitors and distributors. More in-depth guideMaterializing Our Values lines are provided in a detailed Compliance Program, HEXPOL’s most important business objective is to create in which all managers in the Group confirm with their profitable growth and by doing that the long-term success signatures that they are complying with the rules. of the Group is ensured. To be able to grow and develop The managers participate in compulsory training the business we must demonstrate a responsible and programs in the area. accountable approach. The commitments in Materializing  Whistleblowing empowers all employees to sound the alarm, bringing irregularities concerning the Code of Conduct to the attention of the Board of Directors and company management.  Global Compact entails the Group having undertaken to support ten fundamental principles in respect of human rights, labor conditions, environmental ­consideration and anti-corruption. Global Compact is an initiative by the UN.  The Global Sustainable Development Goals are applied in formulating the Group’s targets.  Management systems for the environment, quality, work environment and energy have been introduced at the production facilities. The standard for social responsibility (ISO 26000) provides guidance in Group-wide sustainability work. 2016 2017 2018 • Group objectives were linked to the UN • HEXPOL participates in the UN Global • Environmental management systems updated according ­ Sustainable Development Goals. Compact at Signatory level. to ISO 14001:2015. • Focus on efficient use of resources – energy, • Good outcome from energy optimisation • Positive trends concerning energy efficiency and materials, waste. trough energy audits and technical measures. carbon ­footprint. • Community engagement through activities in local • Increased use of fossil-free electricity and biofuel. • Increased interesst in DryFlex Green and other communities and contacts with schools and universities. • Several activities together with schools and universities. ­environ­ment-friendly products. • Update to ISO 14001:2015 began. • Continued good results from the Americas • Update of the Code of conduct – Materializing Our Values. • Continued education in business ethics. Safety Programme. • Reduced number of workplace accidents. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 9 Corporate responsibility Our Values are deeply rooted in HEXPOL’s culture and The ­following methods for governance and monitoring of strategy, meaning that we strive to limit the Group’s ­corruption-related issues are used: impact on the environment and to offer a secure and  HEXPOL spread shared values in the form of Materiastimulating work environment for all employees worldlizing Our Values. Group company management teams wide. It is equally important that HEXPOL is associated are responsible for further conveying the values in with credibility and healthy values in the contacts with their organization. As mentioned above, senior customers, s­ uppliers and other interested parties. executives are targets for an advanced on-going Materializing Our Values is primarily based on the training program. Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact and the Inter­  HEXPOL monitor costs, expenditure and revenues on national Guideline for Social Responsibility (ISO 26000). an on-going basis. HEXPOL recognize the fundamental principles of Human Rights, as defined by the Universal Declaration of Human  Particular attention is paid to ethical issues in our Rights (UN), the eight core conventions defined in the relationships with partners. Standard business Fundamental Principles of Rights at Work (ILO Declarapractice must be observed in each individual country, tion), and other relevant conventions and guide­lines. but if business practice does not comply with MateriaMaterializing Our Values is also based on laws and regulalizing Our Values, we must refrain from doing business tions that are applicable to public companies that are or take alternative relevant actions. listed at the Swedish stock market. As a part of the sustainability-reporting scheme, In a number of areas covered by Materializing Our ­management at every company must reflect on actions Values, a practice of zero tolerance is applied to non­ that have been taken to reduce the risk for corruption. conformity. This applies, for example, to the need to The questions are based on a questionnaire from ­comply with legislation, to respect human rights, the Global Compact. prohibition of bribery and other forms of corruption, and the fact that competition law must be complied with. No breaches concerning corruption were identified during In other areas, the code of conduct provides an approach 2018. that is based on ­preventive measures and continuous im­provement, such as in the environmental and work Whistleblowing environment areas. The whistleblowing system empowers all employees to The Board of Directors, the CEO and the Executive blow the whistle to bring irregularities concerning the Management Team have the overall responsibility for code of conduct to the attention of the Board of Directors ensuring that Materializing Our Values becomes a natural and company management. During the year no cases feature of the way to work. In the daily operations, the were registered. responsibility rests with managing directors and all other managers at HEXPOL. The role of the individual em­­ployees Management systems in the practical application of the values is very important. The concept of continuous improvement is an integral The Annual Report and the Sustainability Report outline ­feature of the corporate culture and encompasses many how work related to these values is ­progressing. areas. Product quality is a key competitive factor, and the Materializing Our Values – together with the package systematic quality work is conducted in accordance with of policies and guidelines – provides guidance and ­support the requirements of the international standard ISO 9001 and shall be applied in the same way wherever we are in and various industry standards. All units are certified the world. Materializing Our values was updated during according to ISO 9001 and continuous improvement is a 2018 and the document is found at ­­­­­www.hexpol.com. fundamental requirement of the quality management ­system. The purpose of quality work is to ensure the right Business Ethics Guidelines quality, fulfil safety and legal requirements and to exceed This document guides the employees in matters ­concustomer needs and expectations. For this reason, customers cerning what is and what is not permitted in business and suppliers are frequently involved in the development contacts with customers, suppliers, competitors and of new products or changes in existing products. ­distributors. Deeper guidelines are provided in a detailed Within the management systems ISO 14001, ISO 50001 Compliance Program, in which all managers in the Group and OHSAS 18001, continuous improvement is a core confirm with their signatures that they are complying concept and the manufacturing units work systematically with the rules. The managers participate in compulsory with targets and follow-ups. The Group also ­applies contitraining programmes in the area. There is zero tolerance nuous improvement system such as 5S, ­Kaizen and Lean of non-compliance in respect of business ethics. manufacturing. Several of the units within Engineered Online training courses are implemented, which Products, is working according to the integrated manage­includes an examination on international legislation ment system HEPS (HEXPOL ­Engineered Products ­concerning cartels, competition and prohibited forms Production System), a concept first introduced at the of business cooperation. So far, more than 150 managers Group’s facilities in Sri Lanka. ­HEXPOL Compounding and employees in purchasing and sales attended the ­training. in USA apply the HEXPOL ­Continuous Process ImproveUnder “Materializing Our Values”, and the tenth ment Model. The system ­contains eight powerful compoprinciple of the UN Global Compact, integrity and nents that helps us co­­llaborate with customers to measure responsibility shall characterize our business practices. and improve their process quality, productivity and HEXPOL take a zero-tolerance approach to bribery, performance. corruption and c­ artel formation. For a global company, these matters are complex and the perception of “normal business practice” varies between countries and cultures. 10 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Corporate responsibility Global Sustainable Development Goals Creating value for stakeholders Within the framework of Agenda 2030, the UN presented The stakeholders’ requirements and expectations are its Global Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in important, and we actively participate in appraisals, 2017. The 17 goals provide a clear and useful framework ­dialogues and exchanges of views. The intention is to add for meeting global challenges and have achieved con­ value for the stakeholders and, with this in mind, the siderable impact in society. At the same time, they serve Group is working to: to inspire innovation and business opportunities in the  Fulfil customer requirements in respect of quality, area of sustainability. Private and public organizations delivery precision, sustainable development and other have an important role to play and the business sector is areas. HEXPOL’s relationship to its customers is expected to contribute responsible business, transparent ­characterised by professionalism, a high service level, reporting of its own targets and results, as well as devequality awareness and good business ethics. loping products and services that contribute to sustain­  Subject the suppliers to relevant requirements and able development. implement constructive follow-ups. The Global Goals help us to identify areas of impor Communicate on a regular basis with the capital tance within sustainable development and we have ­market, including shareholders, investors, analysts, ­identified several Global Goals with a clear bearing on banks and media. the Group’s operations. Based on the Goals, we perceive  Listen to and co-operate with the Group’s approxiopportunities to both reduce the environmental impact mately 4,600 employees. This is accomplished and create business opportunities. We have therefore through measures such as performance reviews ­linked the Group’s sustainability work to seven of the and Human Resources surveys. Global Goals. We can, in this way, contribute to a more  Maintain good contacts with neighbours, authorities, sustainable world while generating profitable growth ­ mass media, schools, universities and other represenfor HEXPOL. tatives of society. An important starting point for achieving the goals is to minimize the Group’s use of resources. We bring this The table on page 12–13 shows value created for various about by working with innovations, efficiency enhancestakeholder groups during 2018. ments, investments in new technology, increased use of renewable energy, and investments in bio-based and ­recycled polymers. The Global Goals also inspire measures in social responsibility, social engagement and business ethics. Supplier Sustainability Guideline This document informs HEXPOL’s suppliers about the Group’s view on environmental and occupational health and safety matters, human rights and business ethics. HEXPOL expect that the suppliers comply with the Guideline. Compliance is confirmed by self-declarations and/or audits and inspections. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 11 Corporate responsibility HEXPOL's contribution to increased value for stakeholders Stakeholder Group Aims, requirements and expectations Customers HEXPOL is convinced that being ambitious in sustainable development reinforces its relationship with customers. Many customers demand a Code of Conduct and certified environmental management systems. Other requirements concern the phasing out of hazardous chemical substances and sustain­ ability issues being implemented in the supply chain. Employees It is important that the Group retain and develop employees, and also attract new ones. For employees, health, safety, financial compensation, personal development, social conditions and good business ethics are important. Suppliers HEXPOL strives for open and long-term relationships with its suppliers. The objective is to guarantee suitable quality, financial stability and active sustainability work for both parties. Shareholder For our shareholders, growth and dividends are central in generating value. Integrating sustainability issues into the business strategy reduces risk and generates business opportunities, for example through the development of environmentally-adapted products and through resource-efficient production and investment in environmentally adapted technologies. Society Social commitment is an important aspect and is expected by local communities in which the Group operates. As a global company, the Group is expected to take measures contributing to national and global goals for sustainable development. Authorities Compliance with legislation is essential for HEXPOL. 12 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Corporate responsibility Value created With cutting-edge expertise in polymer materials and solid knowledge of applications, technical support and constant development, we strengthen our customers' competitiveness in their markets. Our sustainability efforts are assessed regularly by customers. Last year, surveys and audits were conducted at 20 (19) facilities. The outcome was favourable and the companies received positive reviews of their efforts. During the year, HEXPOL had 1,785 msek (1,569) in personnel costs. The accident rate declined over the year. The number of training hours was 118,200 (94,200). Some 3,200 (3,200) employees participated in development interviews. Surveys regarding employee satisfaction in the workplace gave good results. During the year, the guidelines on sustainable development for suppliers were applied. Over the past three years, more than 1,200 suppliers of raw materials have been assessed. The dividend to shareholders amounted to 671 msek (1,635) and, over the past five years, HEXPOL's Class B shares had an average total return of 10.5 percent annually. During the year, dialogues were conducted with investors and the Group was evaluated by several in­dependent institutions. We facilitate such analyses through transparent sustainability reporting. As described elsewhere in the Sustainability Report, the Group’s companies contributed in so many ways to local communities. HEXPOL’s tax expense for 2018 amounted to 515 msek (441). In 2018, some minor violations of emission ­conditions and other environmental and ­occupational health and safety legislation occurred. The infringements resulted in ­marginal penalties and did not result in any ­further actions by the regulators. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 13 Corporate responsibility Meeting customer requirements HEXPOL’s relationship to its customers is characte­rized Requirements related to sustainable development are by professionalism, a high service level and quality awarepresented by the majority of our customers, and in 2018, ness. In accordance with Materializing Our Values, HEXPOL 94 percent (94) of HEXPOL’s companies reported various focus on sound business ethics and thus competes fairly in types of requirements. For example, ISO 14001, hazardous business activities, including marketing and advertising. substances, product declarations, conflict minerals, social HEXPOL complies with prevailing competition regulations responsibility and compliance with the customer’s code of in the geographical markets in which the company is active. conduct. At 57 percent (53) of the manufacturing units, Business decisions are taken in accordance with the Group’s customers conducted evaluations (audits, questionnaires) interests and are not based on ­personal considerations or to check compliance with the requirements. The outcome relations. was positive and no material issues were revealed. Sustainability requirements from customers Type of sustainability requirement % of total number of plants reporting sustanability requirements 2018 2017 2016 2015 Implementation of ISO 14001 71 61 58 48 Phasing-out of hazardous chemicals 60 61 65 59 Compliance with REACH and RoHS 40 47 47 27 Environmental product declarations 57 64 50 45 Code of conduct 71 67 67 48 Conflict minerals 80 67 70 55 Code of conduct in own supply chain 37 31 21 3 Other requirements 60 31 32 31 Objectives and performance measures HEXPOL has implemented Group-wide objectives to UN’s Agenda 2030 and the Global Sustainable Developreduce its environmental impact, to create safe and secure ment Goals (page 11). Performance measures showing the workplaces and to be a good corporate citizen. The work is trend are briefly presented in the table below. More conducted systematically and the objectives are linked to details are found elsewhere in the Sustainability Report. Objective Sustainable Status Trend Development Goals Energy consumption (GWh/net sales) is to be reduced The installation of energy-efficient production equipment, LED lighcontinuously. The production units work within the frating, infrastructure and energy monitoring equipment contributed mework of ISO 14001 and/or ISO 50001 with detailed to more efficient energy consumption. In a five-year perspective, targets for ­increased energy efficiency. energy efficiency has increased and the key ­performance indicator for energy consumption has decreased by about 25 percent since 2010. Emissions of carbon dioxide (tonnes/net sales) are to be Currently, about 24 percent of energy use consists of fossil-free reduced by 15 percent by the end of 2018 compared electricity and biofuels. Over a five-year perspective, the key perwith the average for 2010–2011. This target pertains to formance indicator has developed in the right direction and the carbon dioxide emissions resulting from the use of energy. objective has been achieved with a good margin. A new objective There are various types of local targets and it is common will be presented in 2019. for Group companies to have introduced a joint goal for climate and energy. All facilities are to have certified environ­mental manageTwo companies were certified in accordance with ISO 14001 ment systems (ISO 14001). Acquired companies must during the year and 97 percent of the plants are now certified in implement the environmental management system within accordance with ISO 14001. There are favorable opportunities to a period of two years. achieve the objective. The use of hazardous chemicals must be identified, Work to limit the use of particularly hazardous substances is controlled and, wherever possible, hazardous substances conducted continuously. During the year, approximately 15 subare to be phased out. stances were replaced, including several phthalates (plasticizers). HEXPOL should be viewed as a frontrunner in the polymer The development of environmentally compatible products continuindustry as a supplier of environmentally compatible ed in 2018 (page 22-23). About 15 percent of the polymer raw products. materials consisted of recycled plastic and rubber. The vision is that no accidents will occur at our workplaThe number of accidents with absence and the number of lost ces. The target is that the number of accidents will be working days decreased compared with the preceding year. reduced. Systems for reporting near misses are to be in The outcome was the lowest in the past five years. Systems for place in all operations. reporting near misses are in place in most of the units. Supplier Sustainability Guideline is to be applied During 2018, approximately 470 assessments were in the supply chain. performed, of which approximately 35 were audits. Green: Objective already achieved; Blue: Positive trend, objective possible to achieve; Yellow: No change; Red: Negative trend, objective not achieved. 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Environmental responsibility Environmental responsibility Climate change affects the Group and the transition to a society with a lower carbon footprint brings risks and opportunities. By increasing energy efficiency and phasing out fossil fuels, the carbon footprint is reduced. Measures also prepare the company for higher fees and taxes on activities that impact the climate. Increased use of recycled and biobased raw materials are other measures that are positive from the perspective of climate. Environmentally compatible product development is another priority area in which the Group’s expertise and technology can contribute to the customers’ climate and environmental work. In the environmental area, we have several long-term targets, which are reported on page 14. Core technologies, products and environmental aspects Rubber compounding We manufacture advanced rubber compounds with an Photo: Grund GmbH & Co. KG. extensive product range for a wide range of customer ­segments and application areas:  Rubber Compounding – development of custom ­compounds and recipes.  High-performance elastomers, such as silicone and ­fluoro-carbon rubber.  Specialty Products – a comprehensive range of custom and standardized chemical additives and color concentrates. Curing envelopes and tubes for retreading. ­Products with specific properties in terms of high temperatures, cooling, static ­electricity, electrical insulation. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 15 Environmental responsibility Mixing rubber in a closed mixer is what is termed as a modern twin-screw extruders and efficient material batch process and, accordingly, all ingredients must be ­handling systems. prepared in compliance with the weight specified in the recipe or formula. The various weighing stages are Gaskets ­monitored by IT systems to ensure maximum precision HEXPOL Gaskets is a product specialist for the manuand enable traceability of the entire batch. Since the facture of rubber gaskets for plate heat exchangers. The ­formula and the mixing process are both critically ­important technology content is high and the end product is characto product quality, our research and development engineers terized by high quality requirements. The gaskets consist are responsible for creating the formulas and for the of rubber and are delivered in a variety of sizes from a few mixing process in accordance with the ­intended applicadecimetres in length up to several meters depending on tion, ingredients and quality ­r­­equirements. the plate heat exchanger’s size. Temperature, pressure The rubber compounds that leave the production and media determine the choice of gasket type and rubber plants are processed further by customers through, for material in the heat exchanger. Performance of the gasket example, extrusion, injection molding and compression is dependent on the composition of the rubber material molding to give the components their final shape. ­Conand the geometric design of the gasket. tinuous or discontinuous vulcanization gives the ­products their elastic properties. Wheels HEXPOL Wheels offers a range of polyurethane wheels TPE compounding for electric-powered warehouse and hand pallet forklifts, The TPE market includes a number of material classes, rubber wheels for castor wheel applications, as well as each based on different chemistries and technologies. tires and special wheels in natural rubber and thermoThe various classes display different properties and endplastics. Five types of products are produced: use applications. HEXPOL TPE Compounding offers TPE  Polyurethane wheels. compounds in the marketplace covering the following  Thermoplastic wheels. technologies:  Rubber wheels and tires.  Styrenic block copolymers (TPE-S or TPS).  Solid rubber tires.  Polyolefin compounds (TPE-O or TPO).  Various special products comprising the  Elastomeric compounds (TPE-V or TPV). aforementioned materials.  Thermoplastic polyurethanes (TPE-U or TPU). Environmental aspects The expertise in this diversified TPE offering positions Significant environmental aspects that affect HEXPOL’s HEXPOL so that each customer can get the right core techno­logies and operations include the use of ­compound for their application or indeed multiple resources in the form of mainly fossil-based polymer ­compounds from different classes. raw materials ­(rubber, plastics), chemical products, energy and water. Other significant aspects pertain to TP compounding emissions into the atmosphere and waste generation. In the major TP Compounding market there are many Indirect environmental aspects comprise the environmental ­different material areas that are based on different types impact of suppliers, transportation of raw materials and of chemistry and technology. HEXPOL TP Compounding complete products, and customer use of the Group’s is specialized in reinforced polypropylene compounds products. Further ­information about how environmental (PP), high quality polyamide compounds (PA) and colour aspects are ranked is found in the Materiality Analysis additives. The production is highly automated with on page 7. Environmental aspects of polymer compounds Polymer compounds, such as rubber and plastics, occurs in various places. The environmental impact are semi-finished products and can be seen as homo– in a life-cycle perspective – of polymers is shortly genous mixtures of different ingredients that have described below. previously been designed in a specific formulation or recipe. These ingredients, or raw materials, can Synthetic rubber be subdivided into the following main categories: About 60 percent of world production of synthetic polymers, fillers, plasticisers, accelerators, crossrubber is used for tire manufacture. HEXPOL’s rublinking agents and many other special products. ber product portfolio contains around 84 percent Only the right composition and a perfect mixing (85) synthetic rubber, the remainder being natural process result into optimum properties of the final rubber. Synthetic rubber is a product of the petro­product. leum industry and our experience is spread over a The rubber and plastic polymers used in HEXPOL large number of polymer types, for example, EPDM, interact with the environment in a number of ways. ­­ SBR and NBR. A certain amount of impact occurs at our plants, The environmental impact from the production while other impacts occur during production of raw and use of synthetic rubber derives primarily from materials, transports and disposal of the waste that energy consumption, use of fossil raw materials, 4 16 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Environmental responsibility 4 electronics, sports, toys and caps and closures. One emissions to air and water, and waste products. The thing that TPEs materials have in common is that positive environ­mental aspects of synthetic rubber they are completely recyclable. TPEs can also be is, for example, ­associated with products that concombined with natural materials, for example, cork. tribute to energy saving and reduction of noise and vibration. Thermoplastics A thermoplastic (TP) is a plastic material that can Natural rubber be repeatedly softened by heating and hardened by The rubber tree Hevea brasiliensis requires a tropical cooling. Examples of thermoplastics include poly­climate. Today, more than 90 percent of all natural thene ­(polyethylene), polypropylene and polyamide ­rubber comes from South-east Asia, although there nylon. ­Thermoplastics are fully recyclable and in are also plantations in South America and Africa. ideal situations thermoplastics can be repeatedly Nearly 70 percent of natural rubber production is melted and remoulded into new products. used in the tire industry. Conventional thermoplastics are produced from An overview of the production process for natural fossil petroleum products and the main environmental rubber shows that the environmental impact are aspects are the use of non-renewable raw materials, associated with clearing of forest, the use of energy, emissions of climate-changing gases and generation chemicals, nutrients and biocides, and from emissions of waste. In recent years composite materials have to water. HEXPOL has no rubber plantations of its been obtained from the combination of recycled own and natural rubber makes up around 16 percent thermoplastics and biodegradable waste of little (15) of the total use of rubber polymers and around economic value, for example, rice husks and recycled 11 percent (11) of the total use of polymers. cotton. Life-cycle analyses show that such ­composites exhibit a significantly reduced environmental impact Thermoplastic Elastomers during the materials acquisition and processing Thermoplastic elastomers (TPEs) are a family of phases compared to conventional virgin thermorubber like materials that combine the performance plastics. In HEXPOL, the RheVision line utilises of thermoset rubbers with the processing ease of bio-fibre rein­forced polypropylene and the result plastics, to deliver enhanced design possibilities for is a lower carbon footprint compared to traditional a diverse range of markets including household, thermoplastic products. automotive, industrial, medical, construction, Environmental legislation  Supervisory authorities conducted inspections at The Group is affected by national and international 18 facilities. No significant deviations were identified. environmental legislation. The majority of the producing At two facilities, limits for pollutants in wastewater units require various types of permits and all the ­facilities were exceeded. These events did not result in any legal in Sweden are subject to official approval or reporting action. In one case, the infringement resulted a very pursuant to the Swedish Environmental Code. The units marginal penalty fee. in the Czech Republic, Belgium, Spain, the US, Mexico, Sri Lanka and China have environmental licenses that Environmental Management systems either cover all areas of their operations or that apply to The international standards ISO 14001 (environment) and specific environmental aspects, for example, emissions ISO 9001 (quality) are implemented at the Group’s manuto the atmosphere. A few minor operations in the UK and facturing units. In addition to this, OHSAS 18001 (work one facility in Germany are not subject to any specific environment) and ISO 50001 (energy) standards are used environmental permits. Compliance with permits and at a number of sites. The standard for Social Responsi­bility emission conditions is monitored through measurements (ISO 26000) provides guidance on the overall ­approach to and inspections, and in excess of 30 units submit specific sustainable development. environmental reports to supervisory authorities. Roughly One of the Group objectives aims at certification of half of the units are planning to apply for minor updates the environmental management systems at all operational of applicable permits in the near future. units. The outcome of ISO 14001 is positive, with risks Environmental legislation in the form of EU directives and costs diminishing, while confidence among interested (REACH, RoHS, CLP, WEEE, energy optimization, parties is rising. During 2018 two companies (in UK and sustainability report) or other national or international USA) were certified and another company (in USA) will legislation affects most of the Group’s operations and be ­certified during 2019. All environmental management products. One third of the units are subject to producer systems are now updated in accordance with the requireresponsibility legislation for packaging. The following ments of the latest version of ISO 14001 (ISO 14001:2015). events related to legislation and ordinances occurred Internal and external environmental audits are frequently during the year: conducted, and in 2018, 146 internal (184) and 48 e­ xternal  Energy audits were performed in accordance with (47) environmental audits were conducted. The­recently the EU directive on energy efficiency. acquired Mesgo Group and Kirkhill ­Manufacturing will implement ISO 14001 during the coming years. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 17 Environmental responsibility Certified management systems in HEXPOL (% of total number of facilities) 100 80 60 40 20 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 ISO 14001 ISO 9001 OHSAS18001 ISO 50001 The standard applied for the work environment fore several energy projects are carried out every year. (OHSAS 18001) is implemented at two units in Sri Lanka, The key performance indicator for energy (GWh/net at one site in the UK and one site in the Czech Republic. ­sales) shows a downward trend. Continued measures In the coming years OHSAS 18001 will be converted to include purchases of energy-efficient equipment, lighting ISO 45001 at the certified sites. Two companies in Germany, and infrastructure. one in the Czech Republic, and the companies in Sri Lanka, are certified in accordance with the standard for energy During the year the energy saving activities were management systems (ISO 50001). All HEXPOL units are ­continued, for example: certified under the ISO 9001 quality standard.  Replacement of lighting with LED lamps. Improved systems to control the lighting and to automatically Energy consumption turn it on and off. Increased use of daylight in some The use of energy is a key environmental aspect for warehouses. HEXPOL. In 2018, 379 GWh (379) was used for our  Installation of AC drives instead of DC drives ­operations. The energy cost was 248 msek (221) and ­provides better control of the speed (frequency ­caused emission of 126,000 tonnes (141,000) of the ­control) of the electric motors in the rubber mixing greenhouse gas carbon dioxide. Mixing equipment, equipment, thus reducing energy use. presses, and other heavy production equipment, have a  Energy audits according to the EU Energy ­Efficiency major contribution to the energy consumption, but, in Directive. So far 15 plants have carried out audits and this context, compressed air, cooling, lighting, ventilaone plant will carry out an audit in the near future. tion and moving of materials are also important factors.  Certified energy management systems (ISO 50001) at Around 73 percent (73) of the energy usage was based on five sites in Sri Lanka, Czech Republic and Germany. purchased electricity, 16 percent (16) on natural gas and the rest derived from other sources. The use of biofuels  Energy curtailment programs together with energy and f­ ossil-free electricity amounted to 24 percent (17). supply companies. This reduces capacity costs. The aim is to use energy more efficiently and there­  Replacing propane lift trucks with electric. Energy consumption Water consumption GWh/MSEK GWh m3/sales m3 0.04 400 90 900,000 80 800,000 0.03 70 700,000 300 60 600,000 50 500,000 0.02 200 40 400,000 30 300,000 0.01 100 20 200,000 10 100,000 0 0 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Energy use Energy use/sales Water consumption (m3) Water consumption/sales 18 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Environmental responsibility  Changes in internal processes to minimize change Emissions to wastewater from the manufacturing processes over times. Lower unnecessary idle time when energy are limited and the indoor premises are ­normally not fitted is being used. with sewers. Wastewater therefore mainly consists of organic  Recirculation of dust collection air through HEPA materials and nutrients from sanitary facilities and cleaning. filters back into facility to prevent heat and cooling Discharges of cooling water, that has not been in contact losses to environment. with raw materials and products, as well as rainwater from roofs and land areas, occur. The manufacturing  Detecting leaks in the compressed air systems in units are connected to ­municipal wastewater treatment order to reduce unnecessary energy losses. plants or equivalent. Precautions such as oil separators,  Installation of cooling systems with improved ­ secondary containment and spill-kits are installed at the energy efficiency. units. Measurements of storm water and wastewater  Installation of steam traps on presses and insulation showed that the concentration of pollutants mainly of furnaces. Switching off equipment that is not in use. complied with the legal limits. However, the limits for  Better control of the processes for mixing rubber and pollution of waste­water were temporarily exceeded at shorter cycle times reduced energy consumption at one plant in USA and one plant in the Czech Republic. several units. Faster conversion of equipment when changing products. Pre-heating of presses. Polymers and other chemical products Our manufacturing processes are mainly based on the use  Reducing energy consumption during peak periods on of polymers, HA oils (extender oils), fillers, and a large the electricity network. Surplus heat energy (75 MWh) number of chemical substances. The rubber compounds sold to the local district-heating network in Gislaved, include various types of synthetic rubber, process oils used Sweden. as softening agents, carbon black and other fillers, as well as chemicals and additives. Some compounds include Water consumption natural rubber. In addition to that, significant amounts Access to good quality water is essential for HEXPOL, of polyurethane plastics, thermoplastic ­elastomer comand with regard to the use of a natural resources, there pounds (TPE), metals, solvents and dyes are used. are many reasons for us to use water with care. Fortunately, the units are not located in areas suffering from water shortage, or where the aquatic eco-system is Polymer materials in HEXPOL (% of total) ­threatened. The exception is two sites in California, USA, where the area has suffered a severe long-term Synthetic rubber draught and where companies are expected to implement Plastics water-­saving measures. including In 2018, around 340,000 m3 (341,000) of municipal TPE water was consumed, 91,500 m3 (98,000) came from own wells and 287,000 m3 (296,000) from rivers. Water was mainly used for cooling of manufacturing equipment in closed loop systems and for sanitary purposes. However, at one plant in Sweden water from a nearby river is used for cooling purposes. As this is not a closed loop system the consumption accounts for around 40 percent of the Group’s total water use. To reduce the water consumpNatural tion, actions are continuously implemented, for example, rubber search for leaking pipes, awareness and housekeeping ­programmes, and technical measures. In a three-year Recycled ­perspective the key performance indicator (m3/net sales) plastic and rubber shows a downward trend. The total cost of water was 4.8 msek (4.4). In terms of volume, synthetic rubber polymers are predoSources of water minant, but TPE, polyurethane plastics and olefins are Wells (%of total) Rivers and ponds used to a considerable extent. The use of natural ­rubber accounted for about 11 percent (11) of total ­polymer consumption. The use of recycled polymers accounted for about 15 percent (15). The natural material cork is used in certain TPE applications. In the product series, Dryflex Green and RheVision, bio-based raw m ­ aterials are included. Safe chemical management Thousands of recipes are used to mix compounds with various technical specifications. This leads to a significant use of chemical substances with various purposes – fillers such as carbon black, accelerators, anti oxidants, curing agents, flame-retardants, solvents and softeners, Municipal just to mention some categories. The Group’s objective for safe chemical management is that chemicals that are classified as hazardous for humans and the environment SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 19 Environmental responsibility The rubber industry is becoming greener Is the rubber industry becoming greener? Markus What actions have been taken? Nykvist, R&D Manager at Gislaved Gummi AB in At Gislaved Gummi AB we have phased out a number Sweden, gives a chemist’s view on the subject. of chemicals; HA oils with high PAH content, certain phthalates, lead, ETU, to mention a few. Through Why does the rubber industry use smart databases (iChemistry) we have improved the hazardous chemicals? management of chemicals, for example, through The production of rubber products requires a large systematic risk analyses, screening of chemicals number of raw materials and chemical substances to that are listed as candidates for risk reduction by achieve the required properties. Many of the chemicals the authorities and the customers, and informative that we use are relatively harmless from an environSafety Data Sheets. mental and health perspective. However, we also use various types of hazardous substances that were What are the main challenges? introduced during the long history of the rubber You may break down the question into two answers: industry. The reason is that the rubber chemists 1) Technical difficulties as certain chemicals are have continuously been investigating chemicals that used in many different formulations. For example, create a specific technical performance of the rubber to totally replace the nitrosamine generating accelecompound. Unfortunately some of these reactive rator TMTD in all our recipes would require a subchemicals may cause damage to the environment stantial R&D effort. 2) To get the customer to accept and to human health. that the formulation will be changed. There can certainly be serious discussions concerning techniAre the risks understood? cal specifications, performance and cost. During the past 25 30 years there has been an increasing interest in society to investigate the What about the future? hazards with certain chemicals and to assess the We will continue with the work to phase out hazardous risks. We have been impacted by stricter legislation, chemicals and take other precautionary measures. for example, the EU REACH Regulation that was The use of recycled rubber and carbon black will introduced in 2007. This Regulation places strict increase. For example, last year during the manuresponsibility on industry to manage risks from facture of solid tires, at our plant in Sri Lanka, chemicals and to provide safety information on the around 60 tons of recycled carbon black was used. substances. We can also see that several customers I also think that the use of bio-based instead of fossilare aware of the risks and want to phase out certain based polymers will increase. There is a lot of research chemicals. I would say that we are aware of the risks going on in this area and some commercial polymers and that we have made progress in many areas. are already available on the market, for example Keltan However, as science continuously brings new ECO EPDM. This product is made from sugar cane information about risks, we are working towards instead of crude oil. We can also see that HA oils can a moving target. be replaced by vegetable oils. I am convinced the rubber industry will become greener in the future. are to be substituted, or that other relevant risk reducing that are banned in one country may be accepted in parts ­measures must be implemented. The EU chemicals legislaof the worlds. Regardless of this, we strive to offer custotion (REACH), and other legislation concerning labelling mers recipes that are less hazardous for humans and the and risk information, is crucial for the long-term strategy environment without negative impact on the technical for how we manage chemicals in a safe way. Equally performance of the final product. important are the requirements that are expressed by our customers. HA oils In the rubber industry HA (highly aromatic process oils) Precautionary work extender oils are used to facilitate the processing of the A number of chemicals, or groups of chemicals, that are rubber compounds. They are also an essential component identified in the REACH SVHC List (Substances of Very for the technical performance of tyres and in particular High Concern Candidate List), are used in HEXPOL. As for the road adherence (or grip) properties. Polycyclic a part of the environmental management systems there aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) are, however, present in are procedures in place to identify hazardous chemicals. aromatic oils and the European Union has classified eight Precautionary activities have high priority and during PAHs as carcinogenic. In EU there are since 2010 restric2018 more that ten chemicals were phased-out, or had tions in the use of PAH in tyres for vehicles. The threstheir usage reduced. Future efforts to reduce the risks hold limit is maximum three percent of PAHs in the involve, for example, chemicals such as cyclic siloxanes, extender oil. carcinogenic nitrosamine generators, certain phthalates, At HEXPOL in Europe such oils are phased out but, as ETU, lead and ADC (see Definitions). they are allowed in China, Mexico and USA, HA oils above Since there is no global harmonised chemical legislation the European limit are still used. In a global perspective the substitution work can be complicated. Substances more than 89 percent (89) of the extender oils have a low 20 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Environmental responsibility PAH concentration and we strive to convince customers The emissions have been reduced in recent years and are that more environment-friendly options are available. a result of the reduction of the use of heavy fuel oil at the units in Sri Lanka. Emissions of VOC (Volatile Organic Solvents, metals and conflict minerals Compounds) from paint and solvents were around 57 tonnes For the manufacture of polyurethane wheels around 100 (51) and were caused by the manufacture of polyurethane tonnes of solvents, 25 tonnes of paint and 3,800 tonnes of wheels. The total amount of installed cooling agents is metals are used per year. According to the legislation conapproximately one tonne. No emissions of such ozonecerning conflict minerals (see Definitions) we get requests degrading gases (CFC/HCFC) occurred during the year. from many customers to guarantee that such materials are not present in HEXPOL’s products. Conflict minerals are not used in our operations. Tonnes/ Carbon dioxide emissions MSEK Tonnes Emissions to the atmosphere 18 180,000 15 150,000 Climate changing gases HEXPOL’s aim is to reduce the emission of the green12 120,000 house gas carbon dioxide from energy consumption. 9 90,000 The emissions are results from the use of fossil fuels 6 60,000 (oil, natural gas and propane) and purchased electricity. During 2018 the emissions were 126,000 tonnes (141,000). 3 30,000 The indirect emissions through purchase of electricity 0 0 dominated and accounted for 88 percent (89) of the total 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 amount of ­carbon dioxide. In a five-year perspective the Carbon dioxide Carbon dioxide key performance indicator for carbon dioxide emission ­emissions emissions/sales (tonnes CO2/net sales) has been reduced. The indicator is impacted by several positive and negative factors, for example: Carbon dioxide emissions per country  The on-going energy-efficiency projects contribute to (% of total emissions) a lower carbon footprint. Germany  The increased use of fossil-free electricity (Sweden, USA Germany, Czech Republic, UK), and use of biomass Czech Republic (wood, sawdust; Sri Lanka), reduces the emissions of carbon dioxide. Mexico  Increased production, increased used of energy, and increased number of acquired facilities, will affect the carbon footprint in a negative way. Significant parts UK of the production take place in USA, Mexico and China. As a result our indirect emissions are highly Belgium affected by electricity that is produces from fossil sources (coal, fuel oil) in these countries. China  Further installation of photovoltaic cells. Currently solar energy is captured at two plants in Italy. Sweden Sri Lanka Other air emissions Spain Energy consumption caused 13 tonnes (12) of atmospheric emissions of sulfur dioxide (SOx) and nitrogen oxide (NOx). Carbon dioxide emissions per employee Tonnes CO2/employee 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 USA Germany Czech Republic Mexico UK China Belgium Sweden Sri Lanka Spain 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 21 Environmental responsibility Waste duction volumes in USA, UK and the Czech Republic. The By minimizing scrap, improving waste sorting at source cost of waste management amounted to 21.0 msek (19.0). and reducing the overall amount of waste, the units are using raw materials in a more efficient way. Examples of Innovative solutions generating green growth actions that are beneficial from an environmental point of Many of HEXPOL’s customers take actions to improve the view include internal recycling of process waste and the environmental performance and reduce the carbon footutilization of purchased recycled polymers. During 2018, print of their products. Our capability to develop more purchased recycled material accounted for about 15 perenvironment-friendly polymer compounds and other cent (15) of the total volume of polymer raw materials. It ­products creates business opportunities, for example: is mainly RheTech (USA) that uses recycled plastic on a  RheVision is a line of bio fiber reinforced polylarge scale, but also the tyre plant in Sri Lanka uses notpropylene which use renewable natural fibers, for able amounts of recycled rubber. Around 2,000 tonnes of instance ground wood and coco-nut shells instead of rubber, carbon black and plastic were recycled from protraditional reinforcements such as talc, minerals and duction processes and dust filters. The recycled materials glass. All of the bio fibers used in RheVision are true were reused in certain products or sold to other companies. waste products that are either traditionally burned or During 2018, the total volume of waste was 23,000 buried. The natural fibers can be combined with a tonnes (22,000), of which hazardous waste accounted for proportion of certified post-consumer polyolefin resin 1,041 tonnes (1,039). In a five-year perspective, the KPI waste which takes the recycled content above 50 perfor waste (tonnes/sales) shows an unchanged situation. cent. The RheVision compounds are lightweight, However, a significant increase in the amount of waste environmentally friendly with a very unique aesthetic that is externally recycled, as energy and materials, can quality. The natural fiber products are also processed be o ­ bserved. The amount of landfilled waste has increased at lower temperatures which ­furthers the green footduring the past five years and the cause is increased proprint. RheTech sees a growing demand for these Amount of waste Waste categories by external treatment methods Tonnes/MSEK Tonnes Tonnes 2.5 25,000 25000 25,000 2.0 20,000 1.5 15,000 20000 20,000 1.0 10,000 0.5 5,000 15000 15,000 0 25000 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Amount of waste Amount of waste/sales 10000 10,000 20000 25000 Waste categories (% of total) Waste to external 5000 5,000 recycling Waste to energy 15000 25000 20000 recovery 0 0 2014 2016 2017 2018 25000 10000 20000 15000 2015 Other Recycling 20000 5000 15000 10000 Energy recovery Incineration Landfill Hazardous waste Hazardous waste 1500050000 10000 Waste to landfill Other 22 10000 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 50000 Environmental responsibility environmentally friendly products that help us further  Thermoplastic elastomers (TPEs) are easy to recycle reduce the carbon footprint of thermoplastics. and are used in many applications, such as the auto Dryflex Green is a family of thermoplastic elastomer motive industry. TPEs combined with natural ­material, (TPE) compounds containing raw materials from such as cork, produces technically inte­resting properrenewable resources such as plant and vegetable crops. ties and reduces the use of fossil raw materials. TPEs So far HEXPOL has developed several series with can also replace PVC in certain ­applications. amounts of renewable content to over 90 percent with  Another environmental innovation is non-halogen fire hardness from 15 Shore A to 55 Shore D. By introduprotection mixtures out of the Hex-Flame product cing raw materials that are derived from renewable family, which are also an alternative for non-­halogen vegetable crops, that are responsibly grown, the building applications. environmental impact is improved and the carbon foot HEXPOL Engineered Products manufactures poly­ print is reduced. Currently a LCA (Life Cycle Assessurethane wheels with long service life, thus reducing ment) is carried out for Dryflex Green. the need for replacement wheels. This lowers the  The product group HEXLITE (micro-dense materials) consumption of materials and the amount of waste. meets the requirements from the automotive industry concerning weight reduction. The density of the rubber Accidents and complaints profiles is reduced up to 30 percent. This contributes There were no cases of accidents or uncontrolled emissions to lower fuel consumption in vehicles. to the environment in 2018. Three minor fires were reported  Envelopes for re-treading of automotive tyres from (Sweden, UK). During the year HEXPOL received five Robbins prolong the life of tyres and thereby reduce complaints from neighbors concerning noise and odor. the environmental impact. Re-treading reduces the amount of oils, materials and energy to produce a tire.  EPDM rubber with low electrical conductivity is something the automotive industry demands. The reason is that the risk of electrolytic corrosion occurs when the use of light aluminium and magnesium alloys increase in cars. Door strips containing this type of EPDM reduce the risk of corrosion.  Recycled polymers are used in materials in mud flaps, mats and bumpers for the automotive industry.  Rubber gaskets that are used in plate heat exchangers saves energy worldwide. The gaskets also contribute to energy saving, less climate impact and secure handling of chemicals and food products. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 23 Social responsibility Social responsibility Materializing Our Values applies in the same way throughout the world and the Group aims to be a good neighbor and corporate citizen. The basic idea is that these ambitions will contribute to attracting, developing and retaining committed and competent employees. Among other measures, we are therefore working to develop managers and train employees. Work environment efforts are focused on preventive measures with the vision of zero accidents occurring. Employees At the end of the financial year, the number of employees was 4,640 (4,389), of whom 3,211 (2,955) worked in HEXPOL Compounding and 1,424 (1,429) in HEXPOL Engineered Products. The Parent Company had 5 employees Number of employees per country Turkey Poland Italy Sweden Spain Belgium UK Czech Republic Germany Sri Lanka Mexico Luxembourg China USA 24 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Social responsibility (5). HEXPOL is a global Group and 93 percent (93) of is conducted at the Group companies and the number the employees work outside Sweden. Of the employees, of training hours over the year was 118,200 (94,200). 42 percent work in the Americas, 29 percent in Europe This corresponds to 26 hours (21) per employee. About and 29 percent in Asia. 3,200 people (3,170) participated in development talks or ­e­­quivalent activities. Work satisfaction, personal developHuman rights ment, salary and career opportunities are important factors Materializing Our Values has its background in internafor many employees. The Group offers remuneration tional agreements and guidelines concerning human rights, that, at a minimum, meets the minimum requirements in social responsibility and sustainable development, incluthe legislation and is fully adapted to the market in the ding the UN Global Compact and the Standard for Social countries where HEXPOL operate. Variable performance-­ Responsibility (ISO 26000). The Group’s requirements based compensation occurs in parts of the Group. In 2018, are that workplaces should be safe, facilitate ­competence, personnel costs were 1,785 msek (1,569). development and comply with occupational health and During the year, employee surveys were conducted safety and labor legislation. No employee may be discrimiat 17 units (15). Examples of views and wishes expressed nated due to gender, religion, age, physical or mental disby employees concerned personal development, training, ability, sexual orientation, nationality, ­political opinions internal communications and planning of working hours. or origin. During the year, no ­deviations attributable to human rights were registered at the Group’s units, or Health and safety among suppliers. The vision is that no accidents will occur at our workplaces The Group’s values recognize the employee’s right and the target is that the number of accidents will be to be represented by trade unions or other employee ­reduced. Systems for reporting near misses are to be in ­representatives, as well as the right to collective bargaining place in all operations. The management of health and and agreements. The extent of coverage by collective safety issues focuses on preventive measures and includes agreements varies depending on local political and ­cultural risk analyses, training programs, registration of incidents conditions in the countries in which the Group i­s active. and technical improvements. Creating a good work At about a third of the units, all employees are covered by environment and wellbeing are the responsibilities of ­collective agreements and this applied to Sweden, Sri ­executive management and improvement programs are Lanka, Germany, Spain and China. For other units, the conducted in cooperation with employees and their affiliation to trade unions is between 0 and 75 percent. ­representatives. About half of the units have incentive ­systems in place for improvements made in the environ­ Diversity and equality mental and working environment fields. HEXPOL encourage diversity and distances itself from all During 2018, there were 124 occupational accidents forms of discrimination. Questions regarding equal rights (138) resulting in more than one day’s absence from work. have been decentralized and formal equality plans exist at Total absence due to accidents amounted to 1,042 days 64 percent (60) of the units. The employees are entitled to (1,672). During the previous five years, the average form and join trade unions and have the right to collective ­accident rate for absence per million hours worked was bargaining. They also have complete insight into and the 14.7. The outcome of 2018 was below average and a ­ mounted right of co-determination in accordance with the provito 12.8. The frequency can be compared to other types of sions of national legislation. Work environment efforts heavy manufacturing industry and the causes of accidents focus on preventive measures and include risk analyses, consist primarily of falls, equipment-related, manual training programs and technical improvements. handling and cuts. Zero accidents involving ­contractors A significant share of the people employed in the global (2) were reported and 12 work-related illnesses (23) were polymer industry are men, something that also applies to confirmed. Impaired hearing, allergies and injury to HEXPOL. In the Group, 14 percent (14) of the employees muscles and skeleton are examples of illnesses that are women. The units in China account for the highest share occurred during the year. (about 33 percent), with the lowest proportion in Sri Lanka (6 percent). The proportion of females is 57 percent (57) During 2018 we can observe a downward trend in the on the Board of Directors and 17 percent (17) in Group number of work accidents and the following activities management. The proportion of females in the local have contributed to the positive development: management teams averaged 18 percent (14). There is a  HEXPOL Compounding Americas Safety Program: Group-wide equal opportunity policy, and this serves as The mission of the Americas Safety Team is simple: a clear message from Group management to strive for a ”Develop a world class safety culture.” The key higher proportion of females in connection with external ­building blocks of the Safety Program are: ­Awareness and internal recruitment to various positions. During and Communication; Corrective Action Process; Prethe year, nothing arose that showed that the Group had ventive Action Process; Cardinal Safety Rules, and breached the guidelines concerning equal opportunities Internal Safety Audits. Weekly ­conference calls are or diversity. At one facility in the US, an investigation is conducted where every site is represented. The discusunderway regarding possible discrimination in connection sion revolves around all safety incidents which have with a recruitment. been reported in a safety database. What happened; what action was taken; and what “look across” actions Skills development can be taken at each site to prevent reoccurrence? By working in networks and project organizations, Every month, each site conducts a monthly safety employees’ knowledge and skills increase. Within communication meeting with all associates. This is a ­HEXPOL, such activities entail people from different campus wide meeting where all prior month Americas ­cultures meeting and sharing their knowledge and recordable injuries; near-miss safety incidents; internal ­experience. In addition to this, formal skills development safety audit results; and any other applicable safety SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 25 Social responsibility Causes of occupational accidents hines and equipment 30% Cuts, energy and other causes vy lifting, repetitive tasks mical substances 3% Heavy lifting, repetitive tasks and slip 21% , energy and other causes Fall and slip Chemical substances Machines and equipment Accidents at work 2014 – 2018 Year 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Lost Work Cases (LWC) 124 138 127 111 104 Lost Work Days (LWD) 1,045 1,672 2,319 2,058 1,875 LWC/million worked hours 12.8 15.2 15.1 15.9 14.3 LWD/million worked hours 108 184 275 295 257 topics are presented to help educate the work force. of 9.6 hours (9.8) per person during 2018. The training During 2018 associates from one site traveled to programs pertained to protection ­against fire and another site to perform safety audits. All safety accidents, evacuation exercises, ergonomics, safe findings and observations were documented and management of hazardous sub­stances, use of personal corrective actions were taken. protective equipment, hot work, first aid, and much  Near-misses: Systems to record near misses are more. A key target group for this type of training ­implemented in 89 percent (86) of the units and are program is new employees. being used in an efficient way. A total of 503 near misses (448) were registered, resulting in preventive Burton Rubber Processing (USA) was honored with the and remedial measures to reduce the risk of accidents. Geauga Safety Council ”2018 Group Award” for being the employer with the lowest accident rate in the reference group.  Management systems: OHSAS 18001 (occupational No lost time accidents were recorded during the year. health and safety management system) is implemented at two plants in Sri Lanka, one plant in UK and one plant in the Czech Republic. The majority of the units manage health and safety in a systematic way within the legal frameworks of their respective countries.  Safety committees: The safety committees are ­important drivers for preventive measures and such organizations exist in 89 percent (92) of the facilities.  Risk analyses and workplace monitoring: Risk ­analyses, occupational health and safety monitoring (e.g. dust, noise, fumes), technical measures, ­training, health checks and safety rounds are ­frequently carried out at the plants. Special health checks of the workforce are conducted at the units handling isocyanates. Other types of recurring health checks are common in the Group.  Training and awareness: Training programs ­involving the environment, occupational health and safety are conducted regularly and amounted an average 26 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Social responsibility Social involvement  Universities: HEXPOL units participated in research HEXPOL engages in social activities throughout the collaborations with universities, for example, at world (see also page 32–34). These include “open houses” Elastomeric Engineering in Sri Lanka (University for employees and their families, contacts and projects of Sri Jayewardenepura), Compounding in Dukinfield with schools and universities, and financial support in UK (Lancaster University), Burton in USA (Akron for sports, health care and associations. During 2018 the University), and RheTech in USA (Schoolcraft College). following activities can be recognized: The Group collaborates, since long, with the InternaOpen houses: Gislaved Gummi celebrated 125 years tional Institute for Industrial Environmental Econoand around 400 persons visited the plant. The plants mics (IIIEE) at Lund University in Sweden. in Sri Lanka involved employees in competitions,  Sponsoring: HEXPOL provides financial support for musical programs and cricket tournaments. At the schools, health care, sports associations and social Statesville site a Family Day was organized, including activities, and in many cases our involvement is longemployees, customers and representatives of the term and Group employees contribute in different ways. community. At the plant in Aguascalientes (Mexico) employees were invited to a Family Day, the Guadalupe Virgin Mass and the Christmas Party. The activities involved around 500 persons.  Students: From a strategic perspective, it is important that young people and students are informed about the future opportunities offered by the polymer industry. Many of the Group’s units are active in contacts with schools and universities, for example, on field trips, job fairs, development projects, theses and internships. In total, several hundred students participated in activities at the Group’s units in Sweden, Sri Lanka, Belgium, Czech Republic, USA and Mexico. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 27 Economic responsibility Economic responsibility Year 2018 was HEXPOL’s best year so far with 13 percent higher sales and improved result. We are very pleased with our two latest strategic acquisitions, Kirkhill Rubber and Mesgo Group and HEXPOL is well equipped for further expansion. Sales increased to 13,770 msek (12,230). ­Operating profit increased to 2,150 msek (1,986) and ­operating margin amounted to 15.6 percent (16.2). 28 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Economic responsibility Sustainability-related investments Key figures 2018 2017 2016 Sales, MSEK 13,770 12,230 10,879 Waste and wastewater Protection of soil and groundwater Operating profit (EBIT), MSEK 2,150 1,986 1,921 Reduction of Operating margin, % 15.6 16.2 17.7 air emissions Profit after tax, MSEK 1,646 1,527 1,397 Earning per share, SEK 4.78 4.44 4.06 Other Equity/assets ratio, % 59 68 77 Return on capital employed, % 22.5 25.1 26.8 Sustainable development and finance Investments, costs and savings Health and safety During 2018 the sustainability-related investments Energy efficiency amounted to 38.6 msek (43.5). The main areas for investments were related to reduced air emissions and health and safety. The overall cost for environmental and workplace measures amounted to 32.8 msek (29.4). The costs include, for example, administration, operation of emission abatement equipment, and fees to authorities Sustainability-related costs and certifi­cation bodies. The cost for management of waste accounted for 64 percent (65) of the total costs. Abatement equipment Fees to authorities Environmental and work environment-related ­measures ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 resulted in savings of 5.5 msek (9.8). Increased recycling Other and energy-efficiency projects contributed to the savings. Savings were also as a long-term result of investments in External costs previous years. Financial value for stakeholders Administration HEXPOL affects a broad range of stakeholders. The Group has an economic impact on society and create opportunities for customers, suppliers, employees and society. The business generates a financial value that is distributed among Waste the various stakeholders. Sourcing represent a large expenditure item, wages and pension plans generates value for our employees, and by paying taxes and employing people the company contributes to local societies in the countries where we are active. During 2018, the Group had net sales of 13,770 msek (12,230) of which 2,989 msek (3,658) was distributed according to the table. The Group’s tax expenses were affected by lower tax rate in the US and amounted to 515 msek (441), which corresponds to a tax rate of 23.8 percent (22.4). Stakeholder Distributed value (MSEK) 2018 2017 2016 Employees 1,785 1,569 1,448 Salaries and benefits Shareholders 671 1,635 585 Dividend Creditors 18 13 10 Interest expenses Society 515 441 516 Total reported tax expenses Total 2,989 3,658 2,559 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 29 Sustainability-related risks Sustainabilityrelated risks HEXPOL’s strategy includes continuously minimizing ­operational risks through active and planned risk management, while still capitalizing on the business oppor­tunities that controlled risk-taking brings. The main ­features of risk management are identification, evaluation, governance, reporting, monitoring and control. For significant risks, there are procedures for accepting, reducing or e­ liminating the risk. HEXPOL’s Annual Report for 2018 provides detailed information about o ­ perational and ­financial risks. In terms of sustainability, we have ­identified a number of risks of potential ­importance to the Group’s financial position. 30 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Sustainability-related risks Risk Risk management Environmental legislation The on-going development of environmental ­legislation and environmental The Group is working systematically to analyse and implement the news and changes policies impacts HEXPOL on a short-term and long-term perspective. Climate in the environmental legislation. We don’t foresee any un­­expected requirements that change represents an area in which it is likely that ­additional legal and will impact the business ­operations. For the individual manufacturing facilities, it is financial means of control will be introduced. With ­respect to other relevant important to comply with existing emission conditions and be prepared for more environmental legislation, it is mainly REACH that creates challenges and stringent future environmental requirements. The facilities have valid environ­mental opportunities for HEXPOL. The legislation includes requirements to phase licenses in place and just ordinary updates of ­conditions and permits are expected in out certain hazardous substances, or restrict their use in certain applications. the near future. We use ­chemical substances that are registered on REACH’s ­Candidate List of Sub­stances of Very High Concern (SVHC). These substances have Concerning REACH, the R&D departments have reformulated a number of recipes a specific function in the preparation of our products, including certain and the use of several substance has been terminated or ­reduced. Risk-reducing mephthalates (softening agents) and accelerators. asures should, of course, be implemented as required by the ­legislation, customers’ specifications and the Group ­Policies. Business opportunities are created by our aim to be a leading company in environmentally compatible ­products. Health and safety legislation HEXPOL has operations in many countries with ­different health and safety HEXPOL’s assessment is that its ­operations, in all material respects, are conducted requirements. Legislative amendments and changes in government regulain accordance with the applicable laws and regulations ­concerning health and safety. tions resulting in more stringent requirements or revised terms and condiHEXPOL is continuously monitoring anticipated and implemented changes in tions pertaining to health and safety, or a trend toward stricter application ­legislation in the countries where the Group operates. HEXPOL has a health insurance of laws and regulations by the authorities, could require additional investsystem in the US, ­whereby the employees are offered compensation for health care. ments and lead to increased costs. Legislative amendments and changes in The Group’s expenses are maximized to a fixed amount per individual and year. government regulations could also impede or limit HEXPOL’s operations. Contaminated soil Many of the Group’s facilities are built on land that was not previously used Regular assessments of the risk for soil contamination and other environmental by contaminating operations. No emissions or accidents of significance damage are made in conjunction with acquisitions. Where it is con­sidered necessary, to land and groundwater were registered in 2018. Adjacent to a leased sampling of soil and groundwater is conducted. Through risk analysis and preventati­property in Gislaved (Sweden) there are signs of historical soil contaminave actions, for example, within the framework of ISO 14001, the probability and the tion from petroleum hydrocarbons. Another property in Gislaved, owned consequences for uncontrolled emissions are minimized. by Gislaved Gummi, has been examined with respect to contaminations according to the Method for Inventories of Contaminated Sites (Mifo) in Sweden. The property was classified as Risk Class 2 and the assessment was based on the previous use of the solvent trichloroethylene in the facility. No ­emissions of this solvent have been registered and it is unknown whether the authorities will demand further soil and groundwater sampling. One of the units in the US is exposed to the risk of limited site contamination caused by earlier operations. Although remediation of the site is reported by the former owner, this has not been fully ­confirmed. However, there are no legal requirements for remediation of this land that affect the Group. Hazardous substances in buildings and installations The roofs of some buildings are constructed of ­Eternit tiles that contain Regular assessments of the presence of asbestos and PCB are made in conjunction asbestos fibres. The risks are considered minor and do not require actions with a­ cquisitions. In accordance with the legislation in ­different countries inventories to be taken until the roofs are to be replaced. According to legislation in has been carried out and relevant precautions have been taken. Further actions are Sweden, the Group performed an inventory of the ­properties with respect currently not applicable. to PCB (polychlorinated ­biphenyls). Some small amounts of PCB were found in window sealing in a number of buildings and the ­compound will be remediated as the windows are gradually replaced. The risks to humans and the environment are very low. Climate-related risks Three of the units have identified flooding as a ­climate-related risk and The Group keeps itself informed of risk analyses on climate changes that are percertain precautions have already been taken. Three facilities are located in formed in countries in which it has operations. Climate related risks are taken into areas that could be exposed to extreme weather. account during acquisitions of companies and evaluation of suppliers. Environmental adaption of products The interest for environmentally adapted products is increasing in many The Group is taken an active role within the area and is offering knowledge that industries and many of the ­customers sets requirements regarding phasecontributes to environmental friendly product development. The Group’s “green” out of hazardous substances and other properties that have importance to products have the potential to create good business opportunities, for example health and environment. If the requirements are not met, there is a risk that Dryflex Green which consists of bio-based raw materials. the deal will be lost. Human rights The risk for any violation of the human rights at HEXPOL’s production HEXPOL’s code of conduct (Materializing Our Values) specifies the view of human facilities is considered low. The main part of the Group’s suppliers of raw rights. The code of conduct is supplemented by the commitments in the UN Global material is ­global chemical companies and the risks around human rights Compact. The system with whistleblowing gives the employees the opportunity to are considered as low. HEXPOL has identified suppliers of natural rubber blow the whistle and draw attention to possible irregularities. In the c­ ollected data for as a potential risk area. ­Formal sustainability audits have therefore been the annual Sustainability Report, all companies must take a stand on questions re­performed at natural rubber plantations in Sri Lanka. The situation around garding human rights in their own operation and among the ­suppliers. Any significant human rights was assessed as good. ­deviations have never been registered. Anti-corruption The Group has operations in both industrialised and developing countries. Global Compact and the business ethic guidelines are guiding the employees in No matter where the operations are, there is a risk that sound valuation questions regarding what is and is not allowed in the contact with business partners. principles are not applied. In the Materiality Analysis (see page 8) good In the Compliance Program the managers confirm, through their signature, that the business ethics is given very high priority. The message from the Group rules are followed. Managers and employees within sales and marketing are part management is that zero tolerance is applied for anti-corruption and lack of the mandatory educations within the area. In the collected data for the annual of business ethics. Sustainability report, all companies must take a stand on how they have worked against corruption during the year. The questions originate from Global Compact. Any significant deviations have never been registered. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 31 Highlights during 2018 Highlights during 2018 – small and big steps towards sustainable development During the year the commitment to continual improvement was demonstrated by a number of small and big steps towards sustainable development. Some examples, from HEXPOL’s units all around the world, are found below and other examples are found elsewhere in this S ­ ustainability Report. Belgium  the Eupen plant a study to optimize the cooling At system was carried out. The company started to purchase fossil-free electricity. China  Gislaved Gummi in Qingdao passed all audits that were conducted by the local environmental and workplace authorities. Actions were taken to improve the management of hazardous waste.  Stellana in Qingdao built a new storage room for hazardous waste. Energy consumption was decreased by 10 percent per manufactured product.  The Foshan unit finalized the work safety standardization and the occupational health and safety ­classification. Czech Republic  The Unicov site introduced the new HEXLITE compound to a major customer.  The Lesina unit integrated the management systems according to IATF, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 and ISO 50001. The plant-specific energy consumption was reduced by 2.5 percent. Germany  The Lichtenfels sites observed an increasing demand for environment-friendly products, for example, ­concerning non-toxic and renewable raw materials.  The Hückelhoven unit formed an Energy Team and started to purchase non-fossil electricity. 32 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Highlights during 2018 Mexico USA  The unit in Aguascalientes continued with the ­mentor  The Statesville plant completed the switch to LED safety programme and there was a significant reduction lighting throughout the plant. The company ­continued in the number of accidents. with the Mentor Program and additional safety mentors  The Querétaro unit reduced the amount of hazardous were added. Quarterly surveys of associates were conwaste. ISO 14001 was updated to the latest version ducted for morale, safety and ­productivity. without any non-conformances during the certifica The Jonesborough site completed the changeover from tion audit. Environment and safety training was given propane to electric forklifts. Separated ester, staining, to all employees. and non-staining oil with installation of new oil system for the 440 mixer. The old cooling tower was removed. Spain  The Muscle Shoals plant successfully passed the  The compounding unit in Barcelona continued work to ­surveillance audit according to ISO 14001. remove nitrosamine-generating chemicals, ­hazardous  Valley Processing in Los Angeles reduced energy substances and phtalates. Continued the recycling consumption by 10 percent per ton produced. This was program of wooden pallets and cardboard boxes using done through formulation and cycle time optimization. returnable containers and pallets. While the site has not completed ISO 14001 certification, the system was implemented and is operational. Sri Lanka HEXPOL Safety Programs were implemented with a  The Horana unit was re-certified according to the focus on Cardinal Rules and personal protection latest versions of ISO 9001 and ISO 14001. The equipment. The dust collection system was improved. ­company developed environment-friendly compounds  The Kennedale unit implemented a Mentorship using recovered carbon black. It worked together with ­Program with Impact Indicators. Training was a waste company to recycle rubber waste by pyrolysis. ­conducted for all supervisors. The locker room was  The company was re-certified according to the latest upgraded. In the chiller system R410 replaced the versions of ISO 9001 and ISO 14001. Waste rubber more ozone depleting cooling media R22. was recycled using pyrolysis by a waste company. Con The Dyersburg campus assisted in rolling out the tinued work with energy-­efficiency projects. Mentoring Program within Americas. Also rolled out a Wellness Program focusing on Mind, Body, and Sweden ­Spirit, to help educate the associates on their health,  Gislaved Gummi installed LED lamps at several ­places with a goal to reduce insurance cost. Introduced in the factory. The company was re-certified according safety topics in all communication meetings, as well to the latest versions of ISO 9001 and ISO 14001. as internal audits done daily by all associates. ­Lockout  Stellana in Laxå demonstrates continual improvetag-out continued as a major emphasis with improved ments in areas such as energy efficiency, carbon foottraining, communication signage and focus. Continued print and the amount of waste. the plan to become landfill free and reduced waste  the Åmål site a Life Cycle Analysis was initiated At streams to landfill by 78 percent. Continued with the for Dryflex Green. More than 40 projects connected to presence in the community through numerous contriDryflex Green are launched or planned. The ­company butions and volunteers donating time to work. was re-certified according to the latest ­versions of ISO 14001. United Kingdom  The HEXPOL TPE unit in Middleton installed LED lighting in certain areas plus motion sensors. It also increased the number of suppliers of recycled p ­ olymers.  The Dukinfield unit completed the transition to ISO 14001:2015.  Berwin in Dukinfield incorporated the previous HEXPOL compounding plant into the site. There was focus on communication of workplace risks that are associated with hazardous chemicals (COSHH).  Berwin in Lydney purchased renewable energy from sustainable sources (sourced for the coming five years). Improved energy efficiency by LED light, power factor correction and variable compressor.  FlexiCell in Dukinfield was certified according to ISO 14001. Actions were taken to reduce exposure to dust in the silicone production. The waste management segregation was a great success with zero landfill in Q4, 2018. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 33 Highlights during 2018  The Stellana site in Lake Geneva implemented a Colorant  The Kardoes’ Management Team continuously drove Reduction Project which reduced the amount of colorant community-based initiatives to add value to the required by 40 percent. Reduced production scrap, associates and as a large employer within the local landfill waste and hazardous waste streams. community. The Lean Six Sigma project included  For the fourth consecutive year the Burton facility input and collaboration with all associates. Implemenwas selected for ”2018 Top Workplaces” as one of the tation of Ergonomic Focus with Yoga for Management best mid-sized companies to work for in Northeast and Pre-shift Stretching for all associates. Began preOhio. Examples of actions during the year were: paration to achieve ISO 45001 certification for the Reduced lift truck speeds. Associates started ­conupcoming year. ducting weekly safety audits across all three shifts.  The RheTech Whitmore Lake and Fowlerville plants Video Camera’s installed and operating in facility updated ISO 14001 to the latest version. and video analysis is done twice a month. Pre-shift  RheTech Colors achieved certification according to Ergonomic Stretching is mandatory for everyone ISO 14001. Participated in the EHOVE – Futureand Office Yoga was implemented. Maker Career Showcase where RheTech Colors presented  Gold Key in Middlefield maintained the ISO 14001 the business and career opportunities to high school certification. Continued to drive safety and environstudents. mental projects with increased associate engagement. Continued to improve the recycling program with ”zero” landfill goal. Continued with energy ­curtailment and wastewater management programs. Improved the safety culture driven by Americas Safety Committee to share best practices and drive initiatives across all campuses. Implementation of Safety Mentor to improve safety focus and audits of all processes in production. Continued with the engage­ment in the local community, for example, support to hospitals, career awareness information for high school students, donation of blood, and events together with the Chamber of Commerce, schools, police, fire department, etc. For the third consecutive years the company received Parker Hannifin’s Silver link award for supplier performance. 34 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 About the sustainability report About the sustainability report The purpose of this report is to provide an overview of HEXPOL’s sustainability performance during the calendar year of 2018, and, where practicable, provide a comparison to the performance during previous years. The report describes our impacts on our environment, people, our local communities and the economic contribution the company makes in the areas in which we operate. The aim is to provide a focused report that supports the needs of HEXPOL and our stakeholders. Scope and boundary The Sustainability Report covers performance relating to the environment, health, safety and social conditions at the production units worldwide. Operations that belonged to the Group for most of the fiscal year were included in the report. A total of 35 (36) manufacturing sites throughout Reports from Questionnaire sent all sites out to all sites Quality assurance CEM BER JANU AR of data DE Y Preparations for R FE BR BE M new report NO RY VE UA Sustainability section in OCTOB RCH HEXPOL Annual ER MA Report SEP TE Mandatory RIL MB AP sustainability ER report, GRI report, AU COP report to UN, U AY CDP report G ST M JUL E Y JUN Follow-up and review of sustainability data SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 35 About the sustainability report the world contributed to the report. One site was ­closed office, where incoming information is reviewed and during the year and was therefore not included in the ­compared with data from previous years. Additional report. Mesgo Group and Kirkhill Rubber (acquired assessment of sustainability data is carried out during during 2018), and two small sites in HEXPOL Silicone visits at selected units during the year. Compounding and RheTech, were not included in the report. Emissions of carbon dioxide, sulphur dioxide and Companies located at the same site are reported as one nitrogen oxide from direct energy consumption have been unit. The table shows all units that formed the ­HEXPOL measured using conversion factors based on the energy Group by the end of 2018 and to which extent they are content and quality of the fuel used. CO2 emissions from included in the Sustainability Report. indirect energy consumption – mainly electricity – are measured based on emission factors from the UK DepartReporting principles ment for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA) The annual reporting cycle is shown in the figure on page (Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2015) for the 35. Each unit supplies data to the corporate head office in countries in which HEXPOL conducts operations. In cases accordance with the Group’s questionnaire for sustain­ where energy suppliers present specific information ability reporting. All unit managers are responsible for regarding the energy mix, the supplier’s measurement the primary quality-assurance of the data provided. The models are used. Information about VOC emissions is second level of quality control is carried out at the head ­primarily based on mass balance calculations. Operating units Building Environmental Included in area (m2) licence Sustainability Report HEXPOL Compounding North Carolina Statesville, USA 92 3,400 Yes Yes GoldKey Processing Middlefield, USA 194 13,900 Yes Yes HEXPOL Compounding – Burton Rubber Processing Burton, USA 266 20,800 Yes Yes HEXPOL Compounding – Burton Rubber Processing Jonesborough, USA 123 9,800 Yes Yes HEXPOL Compounding – Colonial Rubber Works Dyersburg, USA 242 45,700 Yes Yes Chase Elastomer Kennedale, USA 83 7,200 Yes Yes Valley Processing Los Angeles, USA 115 6,700 Yes Yes Robbins Muscle Shoals, USA 48 22,600 Yes Yes HEXPOL Compounding Aguascalientes Aguascalientes, Mexico 137 6,500 Yes Yes HEXPOL Compounding Querétaro Querétaro, Mexico 189 12,400 Yes Yes HEXPOL Compounding Belgium Eupen, Belgium 73 4,200 Yes Yes HEXPOL Compounding Germany Hückelhoven, Germany 66 6,300 Yes Yes HEXPOL Compounding Czech Republic Unicov, Czech Republic 111 7,900 Yes Yes HEXPOL Compounding Lesina Lesina, Czech Republic 124 7,350 No Yes HEXPOL Compounding UK Dukinfield, UK 59 2,870 No Yes HEXPOL Compounding Qingdao Qingdao, China 73 6,200 Yes Yes HEXPOL Compounding/TPE Foshan Foshan, China 59 4,950 Yes Yes HEXPOL TPE Sweden Åmål, Sweden 78 5,300 Yes Yes HEXPOL TPE UK Manchester, UK 47 4,500 No Yes HEXPOL TPE Germany Lichtenfels, Germany 147 7,210 No Yes Kardoes Rubber LaFayette 83 13,700 Yes Yes HEXPOL Compounding Spain Barcelona, Spain 85 12,500 Yes Yes RheTech Compounding Whitmore Lake, USA 104 10,900 Yes Yes RheTech Compounding Fowlerville, USA 43 5,700 Yes Yes RheTech Colors Sandusky, USA 56 6,500 Yes Yes Berwin Rubber Dukinfield, UK 91 7,300 Yes Yes Berwin Industrial Polymers Lydney, UK 80 5,900 Yes Yes Berwin, FlexiCell Dukinfield 14 2,100 No Yes Gislaved Gummi Gislaved, Sweden 166 20,000 Yes Yes Gislaved Gummi Lanka Bokundara, Sri Lanka 430 9,300 Yes Yes Gislaved Gummi China Qingdao, China 150 8,400 Yes Yes Stellana Sweden Laxå, Sweden 94 12,100 Yes Yes Stellana US Lake Geneva, USA 70 7,500 Yes Yes Stellana China Qingdao, China 61 3,500 Yes Yes HEXPOL Elastomeric Horana, Sri Lanka 520 11,800 Yes Yes Kirkhill Manufacturing Long Beach, USA 57 15,000 Yes No Mesgo Group Italy, Turkey, Poland 190 38,800 Yes No 36 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 GRI Index 2018 GRI Index 2018 The organization GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) has drawn up voluntary global standards for how companies and other organizations should report on activities relating to the concept of sustainable development. GRI Standards place requirements on reporting sustainability data in terms of economic, environmental and social performance indicators. According to GRI, sustainability reporting should provide a balanced and reasonable picture of the organization’s results within the field of sustainability, including both the positive aspects and the negative aspects. GRI Standards report in the HEXPOL Annual Report 2018, the financial The following table shows the degree to which HEXPOL auditors have verified that the section fulfills the Swedish meets reporting requirements in accordance with the GRI legislation on Sustainability Reporting. This legislation is Standards. Concerning Management Approach we refer to a result of the EU Directive on Non-Financial Reporting. the overarching principles that are described on pages 7Contact person for the Sustainability Report is Torbjörn 9. Descriptions of the Management Approach are thereBrorson (info@hexpol.com). fore not repeated for every separate Material Topic. AR in the table below refers to page numbers in The Sustainability Report 2018 was not audited by the HEXPOL Annual Report 2018. SR refers to this any third-party organization. However, as sustainability ­Sustainability Report. issues constitute a section of the Board of Directors’ General Standard Disclosures GRI Indicator Description Page Organizational profile 102-1 Name of the organization HEXPOL AB 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services AR 22–23 102-3 Location of headquarters AR 104 102-4 Location of operations AR 104–107 102-5 Ownership and legal form AR 10 102-6 Market served SR 4, 15-16 102-7 Scale of the organization SR 4 102-8 Information on employees and other workers AR 83, SR 24–25 102-9 Supply chain AR 22, SR 12–13 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain SR 35–36 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach SR 8–9, 20 102-12 External initiatives SR 9–10 102-13 Membership of associations SR 9–10 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 37 GRI Index 2018 GRI Indicator Description Page Strategy and analysis 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker SR 5–6 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior SR 8–10 Governance 102-18 Governance structure AR 65–73, SR 8 Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups SR 12–13 102-41 Collective bargaining agreement SR 25 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders SR 7–8, 12–13 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement SR 7–8, 12–13 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised SR 7–8, 12–13 Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements SR 35–36 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries SR 35–36 102-47 List of material topics SR 7–8 102-48 Restatement of information SR 35–36 102-49 Changes in reporting SR 35–36 102-50 Reporting period SR 35–36 102-51 Date of most recent report March 2018 102-52 Reporting cycle SR 35–36 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report SR 35–36 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards SR 37–39 102-55 GRI content index SR 37–39 102-56 External assurance No Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary SR 7–8 103-2 The management approach and its components SR 7–11, 14 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach SR 8 Topic-specific Standards Economic Material topic GRI 201: Economic performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed SR 28-29 Material topic GRI 205: Anti-corruption Communication and training about anti-corruption policies 205-2 SR 10 and ­procedures 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken None Material topic GRI 206: Anti-competitive behavior Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, antitrust and 206-1 None monopoly practices Environment Material topic GRI 301: Materials 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume SR 19-21 301-2 Recycled input materials used SR 19 Material topic GRI 302: Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization SR 18-19 302-3 Energy intensity SR 18-19 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption SR 18-19, 32-34 302-5 Reduction of energy requirements of products and services SR 22-23 38 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 GRI Index 2018 GRI Indicator Description Page Material topic GRI 303: Water 303-1 Water withdrawal by source SR 19 Material topic GRI 305: Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG) SR 21 Indirect (Scope 2; energy) emissions of greenhouse gases 103-2 SR 21 (GHG) 305-4 GHG emissions intensity SR 21 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions SR 21 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) SR 21 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx) and other 306-7 SR 21 ­significant ­air emissions Material topic GRI 306: Effluents and waste 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination SR 19 306-2 Waste by type ands disposal method SR 22 306-3 Significant spills SR 23 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste SR 22 Material topic GRI 307: Environmental compliance 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations SR 17 Material topic GRI 308: Supplier environmental assessment New suppliers that were screened using environmental 308-1 SR 12–13 ­criteria Social Material topic GRI 403: Occupational health and safety Workers representation in formal joint management-worker 403-1 SR 25–27 health and safety committee Types of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and 403-2 SR 25–27 ­absenteeism, and work-related fatalities Material topic GRI 404: Training and education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee SR 25 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition 404-2 SR 25 ­assistance programs Percentage of employees receiving regular performance 404-3 SR 25 and career development reviews Material topic GRI 405: Diversity and equal opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees SR 24–25 Material topic GRI 406: Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken SR 25 Material topic GRI 407: Freedom of association and collective bargaining Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of 407-1 SR 7–10, 12–13 collective bargaining may at risk Material topic GRI 408: Child labor 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk of child labor SR 7–10, 12–13 Material topic GRI 409: Forced or compulsory labor Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of GRI 409-1 SR 7–10, 12–13 forced or compulsory labor Material topic GRI 412: Human rights assessment 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures SR 10 Material topic GRI 413: Local communities Operations with local community engagement, impact 413-1 SR 26, 32–34 ­assessments, and development programs Material topic GRI 414: Supplier social assessment 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria SR 7–10, 12–13 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 39 Global Compact – Communication On Progress Global Compact – Communication On Progress Ten principles on responsible business practice In 2017 HEXPOL joined the UN initiative for responsible business – Global Compact. This means the Group is a part of a global network of more than 9,900 businesses in 162 countries. HEXPOL participates at the Signatory level. By participating in the Global Compact, HEXPOL endorses ten basic principles in the areas of human rights, working conditions, the environment and anti­-corruption. These ten principles are based on various UN conventions, such as the Declaration of Human Rights and the Convention against Corruption. The 17 Sustainable Development Goals presented by the UN in autumn 2015 are now also connected to the Global Compact. In 2016, HEXPOL ­linked its sustainability goals to the Sustain­able ­Development Goals. The booklet Materializing Our Values, which includes the Group’s Code of Conduct, is an important internal document, guiding and coordinating employee activities in line with the ten principles. Group companies’ ­compliance with the Code of Conduct is evaluated on a regular basis. In the introduction to the Sustainability Report, HEXPOL’s CEO Mikael Fryklund comments on the company’s Global Compact work during the year. Communication On Progress Organisations that have endorsed the Global Compact must produce an annual Communication on Progress (COP) detailing how they meet the ten principles. In HEXPOL’s case, we use the information provided in the Annual Report and the Sustainability Report. Together, these reports provide a fair presentation of HEXPOL’s support of and compliance with the Global Compact ­principles. In order to simplify COP, we use GRI ­Indicat­ors and the table of cross-references below shows which indicators that are relevant in the context. 40 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Global Compact – Communication On Progress The Global Compact Principles GRI Indicators Human rights 1. Businesses should support and respect internationally proclaimed 103-2, 412-2, 413-1 human rights. 2. Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human 103-2, 412-3, 414-1 rights abuses. Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the 103-2, 102-41, 407-1 effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4. Businesses should work to eliminate all forms of forced and 103-2, 409-1 compulsory labour. 5. Businesses should work for the effective abolition of child labour. 103-2, 408-1 6. Businesses should work to eliminate all discrimination in respect 103-2, 102-8, 401-1, 401-2, 406-1 of employment and o ­ ccupation. Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to 103-2, 102-11, 301-1 environmental challenges. 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater 103-2, 301-1, 302-4, 302-5 environmental responsibility. 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion 103-2, 301-2, 302-4, 305-5 of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, 103-2, 102-16, 205-2, 205-3 including extortion and bribery. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 41 Definitions Definitions ADC Azodicarbonamide is a chemical blowing agent for rubber and ENERGY EFFICIENCY DIRECTIVE The EU Directive that was intro­ plastics. duced in 2015 and that, among other things, covers energy audits at large companies. HEXPOL is subject to the directive and con­ ATEX EU Directive concerning potentially explosive atmospheres. ducts energy audits. Explosive atmospheres in the workplace can be caused by flammable gases, mists or vapours or by combustible dusts. Explosions ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS The parts of an organization’s can cause loss of life and serious injuries as well as significant ­activities, products or services that interact with the e­ nvironment. damage. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM The part of the overall BIOFUEL Renewable fuel from bio-based sources, for example, management system that includes the organizational structure, wood. planning, activities, distribution of responsibility, practices, ­procedures and resources for developing, implementing, perforBOUNDARY The boundary for a sustainability or corporate responming, reviewing and maintaining the organization’s environmensibility report refers to the range of entities whose performance is tal policy. ISO 14001 is used as the environmental management covered in the organization’s report. standard within the Group. CARBON DIOXIDE (CO2) Carbon dioxide is formed in all carbon ETU Ethylene thiourea is a rubber accelerator that may cause cancer. ­combustion processes, such as fossil fuel combustion. Emissions of carbon dioxide increase global warming (the greenhouse effect). FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION Refers to the right of employees to lawfully join associations of their own choosing, peacefully CDP The Carbon Disclosure Project is a voluntary system for ­associate, organise or bargain collectively. reporting the environmental impacts caused by businesses. The primary target group is international investors that can refer to 5S The name of a workplace organization methodology that uses a information on climate risks when making investment decisions list of five Japanese words which are seiri, seiton, seiso, seiketsu and about companies. shitsuke. Transliterated or translated into English, they all start with the letter ”s”. The list describes how items are stored and CFC/HCFC Gases containing chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs), how the new order is maintained. The decision-making process hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) and pollutants containing fluoride usually comes from a dialogue about standardization which builds have negative impacts on the environment as a result of their a clear understanding among employees of how work should be ­ozone-depleting properties and their effect on the climate. These done. It also promotes ownership of the process in each employee. gases are called F-gases because of the fluoride content and these types of gases have been regulated in the EU since 2015 by the GHG Greenhouse gases. The emission into the Earth’s atmosphere F-gas regulation. These gases may be found in cooling and heat of any of various gases, for example carbon dioxide, that contripumps, fire protection equipment and circuit breakers. bute to the greenhouse effect. CHILD LABOR Refers to the employment of workers who do not GHS Globally Harmonised System of Classification and Labelling meet the applicable national minimum legal age requirement. of Chemicals. CLP Classification, Labeling and Packaging is an EU legislation GLOBAL COMPACT A UN initiative in the area of corporate social that addresses dangers posed by chemical substances and mixtures responsibility. Participating organizations agree to adhere to ten and how users should be informed about them. These regulations principles in the areas of human rights, labour conditions, the were introduced in 2015. environment and anti-corruption. Global Compact is reflected in Materializing Our Values. During 2017 HEXPOL joined Global CLIMATE CHANGE Also defined as global warming. Human activity Compact. contributes to the warming of the global environment and its resulting effects, which range from higher temperatures to GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) The Global Reporting eccentric weather patterns and melting of the ice caps. ­Initiative has established voluntary comprehensive standards for how companies and other organizations should report their CODE OF CONDUCT The behaviour code for HEXPOL’s employees ­sustainability activities. GRI G4, which was introduced in 2013, is called Materializing Our Values. Supplemented by policies was replaced by GRI Standards in 2018. ­relating to finance, information, environment, equal oppor­ tunities, IT and health and safety. GRI PRINCIPLES The GRI guidelines consist of principles to define report content and quality. The principles defining report content CONFLICT MINERAL Tantalum, tin, gold and tungsten are referred are: materiality, stakeholder inclusiveness, sustainability context, to as conflict minerals if they originate from the Democratic and completeness. The principles defining report quality are: Republic of Congo and neighboring countries. The term arose balance, comparability, accuracy, timeliness, reliability, ­ because of the armed conflicts in the region, where mining operaand clarity. tions often contribute to continued conflicts and lead to human rights abuses. GWH Gigawatt-hour, unit of energy measurement; 1 GWh ­corresponds to 1 million kWh. CSR/CR Corporate Social Responsibility/ Corporate Responsibility is a term that encompasses how companies handle issues HA OILS Also called extender oils, softening oils and process oils. ­concerning the environment, social responsibility, financial High Aromatic oils contain several chemical substances (polyresponsibility and business ethics. Often used in the same sense cyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, PAHs) that are carcinogenic and as the term ‘sustainable development’. often resistant to degradation in the environment. DETU N,N’-Diethyl thiourea is a rubber accelerator that is hazarHCFC/CFC Substances that deplete the atmospheric ozone layer. dous to health and the environment. ISO 14001 International standard relating to environmental DINP Diisononyl phthalate (DINP) is a phthalate used as a management systems that was introduced in 1996. Over 360,000 ­plasticizer. At present, according to a EU Directive, DINP is organizations globally are currently certified according to ISO ­banned in toys and childcare articles that children can put into 14001. In 2018, an updated version of the standard (ISO their mouths. 14001:2015) replaced the previous standard. DOTG N’N-di-ortho-tolyl guanidine is an accelerator in poly­ ISO 26000 International standard that provides guidance on how acrylate rubber compounds. The substance releases otoluidine organizations can deal with social responsibility issues. This emissions that are associated with health risks. ­standard was introduced in 2010 and provides the backdrop to HEXPOL’s Code of Conduct. ENERGY CONSUMPTION HEXPOL reports both its direct energy use (use of fuel in its own energy facilities) and its indirect use ISO 45001 International standard relating to health and safety ­(purchased electricity and district heating). that replaces OHSAS 18001. 42 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Definitions ISO 50001 An international standard relating to energy manageSUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGS) At the UN summit in ment system. 2015, the world’s heads of state adopted 17 Sustainable Development Goals and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. KPI Key Performance Indicator. The Sustainable Development Goals and the 2030 Agenda aim to LANDFILL Solid waste material sent to a landfill. eradicate poverty and hunger, ensure the rights of all people are respected, achieve equality and empowerment for all women and LEAN MANUFACTURING A systematic method for the efficient girls and ensure lasting protection for the planet and its natural management of resources. Lean manufacturing aims to identify resources. The SDGs are integrated and indivisible, and they all the factors in a production process that do not create value for balance the three dimensions of sustainable development: the customer. ­economic, social and environmental. LWC Occupational accidents causing at least one day’s absence SUSTAINABILITY-RELATED COSTS These are costs related to m ­ easures (Lost Work Case). for preventing, reducing or repairing environmental damage directly associated with operations. The corresponding measures MSDS Material Safety Data Sheet. In some countries called Safety taken with regard to health and safety in the workplace are also Data Sheet (SDS). included. The costs reported include, among other items, adminisNGO Non-governmental organization. tration and external consultancy expenses, fees to ­authorities, costs for introducing and maintaining environmental management NITROSAMINES Chemical substances that can be generated in the systems, costs for waste and charges for external inspections and cross-linking (vulcanization) of rubber. Nitrosamines are associaaudits. ted with an increased risk for cancer and nitrosamine-free curing systems have now become established in many parts of the rubber SUSTAINABILITY-RELATED INVESTMENTS These are investments in industry. assets designed to prevent, reduce or repair damage to the environment associated with operations. The corresponding investments NOx (NITROGEN OXIDES) Gaseous oxides formed during combusmade with regard to health and safety in the workplace, are also tion processes through the oxidation of nitrogen. Harmful to included. health and the environment and cause acid rain and eutrophication. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Under an EU Directive, the Swedish OCCUPATIONAL DISEASE A work-related disease is a disease caused government has decided that as of 2017 it is mandatory for large by long-term exposure to a particular factor in the occupational companies to publish a sustainability report. The sustainability environment. Examples are noise, dust and solvents. report should contain the nonfinancial disclosures required to understand the company’s performance, position, results and OCCUPATIONAL INJURY A work-related injury is a sudden incident consequences of its business operations, including information on (accident) attributable to work that gives rise to a wound or other issues concerning the environment, personnel and social matters, injury. Typical injuries in the polymer industry are cuts, falls and respect for human rights and the combating of corruption. injuries caused by heavy lifting and repetitive tasks. HEXPOL reports occupational injuries as an accident that causes more than one day VULCANIZATION A chemical process for converting rubber into of absence, called Lost Work Case (LWC). The rate is g ­ auged by more durable materials with the addition of sulphur or other the number of occupational injuries per million hours worked. ­“curative” agents, for example peroxides. These additives modify the polymer by forming crosslinks between individual OHSAS 18001 Standard relating to health and safety in the workpolymer chains. place. It will be replaced by the ISO 45001 standard. SO2 (SULFUR DIOXIDE) Sulfur dioxide is formed when petroleum PAH Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, often abbreviated as products are burned. SO2 contributes to the acidification of lakes, PAHs, are a group of environmentally and health hazardous substreams and soil, and causes coniferous trees to shed their needles. stances arising from such products as black coal and petroleum. Large concentrations in the environment are harmful to PCB Polychlorinated biphenyls are a group of industrial chemicals human health. that are hazardous to health and the environment. Use of PCBs TPE Thermoplastic elastomers are rubber-like materials that is prohibited since many years ago, but they are still present in ­combine the properties of vulcanized rubber with the process installations, buildings and equipment. They are also present in benefits of thermoplastics. the environment due to their long degradation time. VOC Volatile Organic Compounds are a group of organic ­compounds POLYMERS Chemical compounds comprising very long chains made that easily vaporize at room temperature. The occurrence of the up of small, repeating units (monomers). Plastic and rubber are volatile hydrocarbons in the atmosphere has an adverse impact on examples of polymer materials. health and the environment, including formation of ground-level PVC Polyvinyl chloride, one of the most common types of plastics. ozone. REACH European Regulation on Registration, Evaluation, AuthoWEEE The EU Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment ­Directive risation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) is a EU Regulation aim to reduce the amount of electronic waste being ­disposed of and adopted to promote safer handling of chemical substances. Chemirequire producers to pay for its reuse, recycling and recovery. cal substances are to be registered for a particular use. Substances of very high concern may be subject to restrictions. ROHS Restrictions of Hazardous Substances. EU legislation ­restricting the use of certain substances that are hazardous to the environment and health. STAKEHOLDER (INTERESTED PARTY) Is a party that can affect or be affected by the actions of the business as a whole. Could include employees, communities, shareholders, suppliers, customers, trade groups to name a few. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Development that “satisfies today’s needs without jeopardizing future generations’ possibilities to satisfy their needs”. Sustainable development encompasses ­ecological, social and economic sustainability. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 43 Group Companies and addresses Group Companies Head office HEXPOL AB Skeppsbron 3 SE-211 20 Malmö Sweden Tel: +46 40-25 46 60 Fax: +46 40-25 46 89 info@hexpol.com www.hexpol.com HEXPOL Compounding Americas HEXPOL Compounding NC Inc. Kardoes Rubber 280 Crawford Road 1061 Industrial Drive Statesville, NC 28625 LaFayette, AL 36862 USA USA Tel: +1 704 872 1585 Tel: +1 334 864 0777 Fax: +1 704 872 7243 Fax: +1 334 864 0776 info.sta@hexpol.com info.laf@hexpol.com www.hexpolcompounding.com www.kardoesrubber.com GoldKey Processing, Inc. HEXPOL Silicone Compounding 14910 Madison Rd. 3939A Mogadore Industrial Parkway Middlefield, OH 44062 Mogadore, OH 44260 USA USA Tel: +1 440 632 0901 Tel: +1 440 682 4039 Fax: +1 440 632 0929 Fax: +1 440 682 4076 info.mid@hexpol.com info.mog@hexpol.com www.hexpolcompounding.com www.hexpolcompounding.com HEXPOL Compounding Burton Rubber HEXPOL Compounding Mexico Processing Av Japón 302 260 Old State Route 34 Parque Industrial San Francisco P.O. Box 377 de Los Romo, Jonesborough, TN 37659, USA Ags. C.P 20304, Mexico Tel: +1 423 753 2196 Tel: +52 449 139 3270 Fax: +1 423 753 3379 Fax: +52 449 139 3289 info.jon@hexpol.com info.ags@hexpol.com www.hexpolcompounding.com www.hexpolcompounding.com HEXPOL Compounding Burton Rubber HEXPOL Compounding Querétaro S.A. de C.V. Processing La Noria 115 14330 Kinsman Rd. Parque Industrial Querétaro Burton, OH 44021 C.P. 76220, Santa Rosa Jauregui, USA Querétaro Tel: +1 440 834 4644 Mexico Fax: +1 440 834 5524 Tel: +52 442 211 3500 info.btn@hexpol.com info.qro@hexpol.com www.hexpolcompounding.com www.hexpolcompounding.com HEXPOL Compounding Colonial RubHEXPOL Compounding CA Inc. ber Works 491 Wilson Way 150 S. Connell Ave. City of Industry, CA 91744 Dyersburg, TN 38024 USA USA Tel: +1 626 961 0311 Tel: +1 731 285 4353 Fax: +1 626 968 2026 Fax: +1 731 287 3098 info.val@hexpol.com info.dyr@hexpol.com www.hexpolcompounding.com www.hexpolcompounding.com Chase Elastomer Kirkhill Manufacturing Company Inc. 635 Tower Dr. 2500 E. Thompson Street Kennedale, TX 76060 Long Beach, CA 90805 USA USA Tel: +1 817 483 9797 Tel: +1 562 803 1117 Fax: +1 817 483 1978 Fax: +1 562 803 3117 info.kdl@hexpol.com info@rubbersales.com www.hexpolcompounding.com Robbins LLC 3415 Thompson St Muscle Shoals, AL 35661 USA Tel: +1 256 383 5441 Fax: +1 800 821 7918 info@robbinsllc.com www.robbinsllc.com 44 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Group Companies and addresses HEXPOL Compounding Europe HEXPOL Compounding HQ sa HEXPOL Compounding Lesina sro Gewerbestrasse 8 Lesina BE-4700 Eupen 35134 Skalná Belgium Czech Republic Tel: +32 87 59 61 50 Tel: +420,354,524,911 Fax: +32 87 59 61 69 Fax: +420,354,524,999 info.hq@hexpol.com e-mail: lesina@hexpol.com www.hexpolcompounding.com www.hexpolcompounding.com HEXPOL Compounding Sprl HEXPOL Compounding GmbH Industriestrasse 36 Ottostrasse 34 BE-4700 Eupen DE-41836 Hückelhoven Belgium Germany Tel: +32 87 59 54 30 Tel: +49 2433 9755 0 Fax: +32 87 74 44 73 Fax: +49 2433 9755 99 info.eup@hexpol.com info.huk@hexpol.com www.hexpolcompounding.com www.hexpolcompounding.com HEXPOL Compounding s.r.o MESGO ASIA KAUÇUK SAN. VE TIC. Sumperska 1344 LTD.STI. CZ-78391 Unicov TOSB Otomotiv Yan Sanayi Ihtisas Czech Republic Organize San Bölgesi 4. Cad. No. 3/1 Tel: +42,585,004,011 41420 Sekerpinar Çayirova/KOCAELI Fax: +42,585,053,568 Turkey info.uni@hexpol.com Tel: +90 262 658 2223 www.hexpolcompounding.com Fax: +90 262 658 2122 info@mesgo.com.tr Gislaved Gummi AB MESGO S.p.A Box 522 Via Lombardia, 33 SE-332 28 Gislaved 24060 Carobbio Degli Angeli (BG) Sweden Italy Tel: +46 371 848 00 Tel: +39 035 4276900 Fax: +46 371 848 88 Fax: +39 035 4276901 info@gislavedgummi.com info@mesgo.it www.gislavedgummi.com HEXPOL Compounding (UK) Ltd. MESGO Iride Colors S.r.l. Broadway, Globe Lane Industrial Estate, Via Borgo S. Siro, 66 Dukinfield, Cheshire, SK16 4UJ 27026 Garlasco (PV) UK Italy Tel: +44 161 343 4433 Tel: +39 0382 816611 Fax: +44 161 343 4422 Fax: +39 0382 810045 info.duk@hexpol.com info@mesgoiridecolors.it www.hexpolcompounding.com HEXPOL Compounding S.L.U. MESGO S.p.A. Polígono Industrial La Bastida Via Virgilio, 16 Ctra. Molins de Rei a Caldes, Km. 13.2 24060 Gorlago (BG) 08191 Rubi, Barcelona Italy Spain Tel: +39 035 4252000 Tel: +34 93 699 86 11 Fax: +39 035 4252001 Fax: +34 93 6999251 info@mesgo.it info.bcn@hexpol.com www.hexpolcompounding.com Flexi-Cell Ltd 3A MCOM S.r.l. Broadway, Globe Lane Industrial Estate, Zona Industriale, 4 Dukinfield, Cheshire, SK16 4UJ 38055 Grigno (TN) UK Italy Tel: +44 161 342 1150 Tel: +39 0382 816611 Fax: +44 161 343 1208 Fax: +39 0382 810045 info@berwin-rubber.co.uk info@mesgoiridecolors.it www.hexpolcompounding.com Berwin Rubber Ltd Mesgo Polska Sp.z o.o. Broadway, Globe Lane Industrial Estate, Zaklad Produkcyjny ul. Spalska Dukinfield, Cheshire, SK16 4UJ 105A/105B UK 97-200 Tomaszów Mazowiecki Tel: +44 161 342 1150 Poland Fax: +44 161 343 1208 Tel: +48 44 734 66 22 e-mail: info@berwin-rubber.co.uk Fax: +48 44 734 68 10 www.hexpolcompounding.com mesgo@mesgo.pl Berwin Industrial Polymers Ltd Church Road, Lydney, Gloucestershire GL15 5FG UK Tel: +44 1594 846 551 Fax: +44 1594 846 569 info@berwinip.co.uk www.hexpolcompounding.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 45 Group Companies and addresses HEXPOL Compounding Asia HEXPOL TPE Compounding HEXPOL Compounding (Qingdao) Co. Ltd. HEXPOL TPE GmbH 899 Fenghuangshan Road Plant 1 CN-266431 Huangdao, Qingdao Grünewaldstr. 13 China DE-96215 Lichtenfels Tel: +86 532 8173 1118 Germany Fax: +86 532 8173 1119 Tel: +49 9571 94894 0 info.qdo@hexpol.com Fax: +49 9571 94894 90 www.hexpolcompounding.com info.de@hexpolTPE.com www.hexpoltpe.com HEXPOL Compounding (Foshan) Co. Ltd. HEXPOL TPE GmbH No. 3 Xinhui Road Plant 2 Wusha, Daliang, Shunde District Max-Planck-Str. 3 Foshan Guangdong CN-528333 DE-96215 Lichtenfels China Germany Tel: +86 757 2291 5100 Tel: +49 95 71 94 89 4-0 Fax: +86 757 2291 5149 Fax: +49 95 71 94 89 4-90 info.fsc@hexpol.com info.de@hexpolTPE.com www.hexpolcompounding.com www.hexpoltpe.com Gislaved Gummi Lanka (Private) Ltd. HEXPOL TPE AB 371 Colombo Road Box 51, Gamla Örnäsgatan 15 Bokundara, Piliyandala SE-662 22 Åmål Sri Lanka Sweden Tel: +94 11 421 2722 Tel: +46,532,607,500 Fax: +94 11 421 2758 Fax: +46,532,607,599 info-lk@gislavedgummi.com info.se@hexpolTPE.com www.gislavedgummi.com www.hexpoltpe.com HEXPOL TPE Ltd Don Street, Middleton Manchester, M24 2GG UK Tel: +44 161 654 6616 Fax: +44 161 654 2333 info.uk@hexpolTPE.com www.hexpoltpe.com HEXPOL TP Compounding RheTech LLC HEXPOL TPE CHINA 1500 E. North Territorial Rd. No. 3 Xinhui Road Whitmore Lake, MI 48189 Wusha, Daliang, Shunde District USA Foshan Guangdong CN-528333 Tel: +1 734 769 0585 China Fax: +1 734 769 3565 Tel: +86 757 2291 5100 info@rhetech.com Fax: +86 757 2291 5149 www.rhetech.com info.fsc@hexpolTPE.com www.hexpoltpe.com RheTech LLC HEXPOL TPE North America 9201 West Grand River 2901 W. Monroe Street Fowlerville, MI 48836 Sandusky, OH 44870 USA USA Tel: +1 734 769 0585 Tel: +1 419 626 5677 Fax: +1 734 769 3565 Fax: +1 419 626 1140 info@rhetech.com info.na@hexpolTPE.com www.rhetech.com www.hexpoltpe.com RheTech Colors HEXPOL TPE 2901 W. Monroe Street Sales office France Sandusky, OH 44870 Tel: +33 160 431717 USA info.fr@hexpolTPE.com Tel: +1 419 626 5677 Fax: +1 419 626 1140 HEXPOL TPE info@rhetechcolors.com Sales office Belgium www.rhetech.com Tel: +32 87 595 448 info.be@hexpolTPE.com HEXPOL TPE sales office Centraland Eastern Europe info.ee@hexpolTPE.com 46 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Group Companies and addresses HEXPOL Engineered Products Stellana AB Gislaved Gummi Qingdao Co Ltd Box 54 No 899 Fenghuang Shan road SE-695 22 Laxå Huangdao, Qingdao, 266431 Sweden China Tel: +46 584 44 48 00 Tel: +86 532 8173 1167 Fax: +46 584 44 48 90 Fax: +86 532 8173 1006 info@stellana.se info-cn@gislavedgummi.com www.stellana.com www.gislavedgummi.com Stellana Qingdao Co Ltd Gislaved Gummi Lanka (Private) Ltd No 899 Fenghuang Shan road 371 Colombo Road Huangdao, Qingdao, 266431 Bokundara, Piliyandala China Sri Lanka Tel: +86 532 81731167 Tel: +94 11 421 2722 Fax: +86 532 81731128 Fax: +94 11 421 2758 www.stellana-cn.com info-lk@gislavedgummi.com www.gislavedgummi.com Stellana U.S. Inc. HEXPOL Wheels sales office/ 999 Wells Street distribution centre Germany Lake Geneva, WI 53147 Stellana Deutschland GmbH USA Am Appenstedter Wäldchen 7 Tel: +1 262 348 5575 D-21217 Seevetal/Meckelfeld Fax: +1 262 348 5570 Germany info@stellana.us Tel: +49 40 703884710 www.stellana.com Fax: +49 40 703884766 e-mail: info@stellana.com www.stellana.com Elastomeric Engineering Co Ltd 51-54, IDB Industrial Estate HEXPOL Gaskets distribution center USA Horana Robbins LLC Sri Lanka 3415 Thompson St Tel: +94 34 226 1051 Muscle Shoals, AL 35661 Fax: +94 34 226 2045 USA info@elastomeric.lk Tel: +1 256 383 5441 www.elastomericgroup.com Fax: +1 800 821 7918 info@robbinsllc.com www.robbinsllc.com Gislaved Gummi AB Box 522 SE-332 28 Gislaved Sweden Tel: +46 371 848 00 Fax: +46 371 848 88 info@gislavedgummi.com www.gislavedgummi.com Texts: HEXPOL AB Photography: HEXPOL, Shutterstock, and others. Graphic design/production: G-byrån Sverige AB, Anderstorp Printed in Sweden by Strokirk-Landströms, Lidköping. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 47 HEXPOL AB (publ), Skeppsbron 3, SE-211 20 Malmö, Sweden Tel. +46 (0)40-25 46 60 · Fax +46 (0)40-25 46 89 www.hexpol.com
