ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 Partnerships for greater security Mission. To make people safe by pushing intellectual and technological boundaries. Vision. It is a human right to feel safe. PEOPLE 10 Saab has seen strong growth in recent years at the 22 The T-X is a totally new, advanced pilot training 52 Sustainability is an integral part of Saab’s strategy. same time as the strategic focus has sharpened. aircraft developed collaboratively by Boeing and The sustainability report provides an overview of Saab has three strategic priorities. Saab specifically for the U.S. Air Force. Saab’s sustainability work. It is a basic human need and a human right to feel safe. Safety is subjected to many different types of threats, Contents however. This includes military threats, terrorism, Saab in brief 2 accidents or natural disasters. Chairman’s statement 4 Saab develops innovative, high-tech and cost-efficient CEO comment 6 systems to increase security for societies and Competitive advantages and strategy 8 ­individuals. At the same time, there is a realisation Saab as an investment 10 throughout the business that some of the systems Strategic priorities 12 and solutions that contribute to greater security can Market and trends 14 also be used in conflicts. This entails a major responsiStrategy – Market 16 bility. By acting responsibly in everything we do, we Strategy – Innovation 24 earn the confidence of customers, employees and Strategy – Performance 30 society and contribute to a safer world. Saab’s share 36 Administration report 38 Group – Financial Review 2018 39 Business areas 40 Other important events 46 Risks and risk management 48 Statutory sustainability report 52 Corporate governance report 68 Board of Directors and Auditors 74 Group Management 76 Other information 78 Financial statements and notes 80 Dividend motivation 134 Proposed disposition of earnings 2018 135 Audit report 136 Shareholder information 141 Multi-year overview 142 Glossary 143 Saab in the world 144 About this report Sustainability priorities are integrated throughout the annual report. Pages of 52–67 the report describe Saab’s sustainability work in greater detail. The formal annual report comprises pages 38-135. Certain figures have been rounded off, so tables and calculations do not always add up exactly. A printed copy of the annual report can be ordered from servicecenter@servistik.se. S aab i n brief Saab serves the global market with world-leading products, services and solutions from military defence to civil security. Saab has operations and employees on every continent. Important events during the year • During the first half year, Finland selected Saab as a • The U.S. Air Force announced in September that it major supplier for the Finnish Navy’s Squadron 2000 had selected Boeing to supply a new advanced pilot Mid-Life Upgrade programme. Within the framework training system. In October, Saab received its first of the programme Saab signed a contract to produce T-X related order from Boeing. and deliver the New Lightweight Torpedo, the first • Saab’s Board of Directors resolved on 18 November, export order for this new product. by virtue of the authorisation from the Extraordinary • In March, Saab made a successful first flight of the General Meeting on 16 November 2018, to increase Global­Eye Airborne Early Warning & Control air­craft in the company’s share capital through a SEK 6 billion ­Linköping, Sweden. GlobalEye combines air, ­maritime rights issue of series A and B shares. The issue was and ground surveillance in one swing-role solution. successful. • In May, Saab unveiled an aerostructures plant for ­Gripen: Saab Aeronáutica Montagens (SAM), in the city of São Bernardo do Campo, in São Paulo state, Brazil. Saab’s long-term Order bookings Saab’s long-term financial goals and sales financial goals, % 2018 2017 2016 5% MSEK 81,175 Organic sales growth 4 11 5 60,000 Adjusted operating margin, % 7.7 7.1 6.3 50,000 Equity/assets ratio 35.0 31.7 32.3 Organic sales growth will average 5 per cent per year over a business cycle. 40,000 Financial highlights, MSEK 10% 30,000 Order bookings 27,975 30,841 21,828 Order backlog at year-end 102,184 107,233 107,606 20,000 Sales 33,156 31,666 28,631 The operating margin (EBIT) will 10,000 average at least 10 per cent per year Operating income (EBIT) 2,266 2,250 1,797 over a business cycle. 0 Operating margin (EBIT), % 6.8 7.1 6.3 14 15 16 17 18 30% Adjusted operating income 2,564 2,250 1,797 Order bookings Sales Adjusted operating margin, % 7.7 7.1 6.3 Net income 1,366 1,508 1,175 The equity/assets ratio Earnings per share, SEK (after dilution) 11.21 12.70 9.79 will exceed 30 per cent. Operational cash flow -2,424 1,388 2,603 Free cash flow -3,195 852 2,359 Operating margin EBIT (%) and operating income EBIT (MSEK) Dividend per share, SEK 4.50 5.50 5.25 by business area Equity/assets ratio, % 35.0 31.7 32.3 Aeronautics, 8.4% 680 Saab’s GHG reduction (relates to 2017) 3.3 Dynamics, 10.1% 535 Percentage of female managers 25.1 25.2 24.5 Surveillance, 8.5% 631 Percentage of female employees 23.4 23.2 22.6 Support and Services, 12.5% 685 Internally funded R&D, share of sales, % 6.7 6.5 7.2 IPS, 3.3% 202 Number of employees at year-end 17,096 16,427 15,465 Kockums, 5.3% 173 2 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 S aab i n brief Saab’s operating structure is divided into six business areas Aeronautics Dynamics Surveillance Aeronautics is a world-leading manufactuDynamics offers a market-leading product Surveillance provides efficient solutions for rer of innovative aviation systems and is portfolio comprising ground combat safety and security, for surveillance and engaged in the development of military ­weapons, missile systems, torpedoes, decision support, and for threat detection, ­aviation technology. The Gripen fighter and unmanned underwater vehicles, training location, and protection. The portfolio Saab’s share of the T-X training aircraft both systems and signature management covers airborne, ground-based and naval fall within this business area, which also ­systems for armed forces as well as niche radar, electronic warfare, combat systems conducts future studies of manned and products for the civil and defence markets. and C4I solutions; Command, Control, Comunmanned aircraft. munications Computers and Intelligence. Support and Services Industrial Products and Services Kockums Support and Services offers reliable, cost-­ The business units within Industrial Products Kockums designs, delivers, and maintains efficient service and support for all of Saab’s and Services, which are mainly focused on world-class solutions for naval environments. markets. This includes support solutions, civilian customers, include Aerostructures, The portfolio includes submarines with the technical maintenance and logistics as well as Avionics, Traffic Management and the consul­Stirling system for air independent propulsion, products, solutions and services for military ting business Combitech. surface combatants, mine hunting systems and civil missions. and autonomous vessels. Kockums’ unique competence is in signature management, impact strength and advanced stealth ­technology. Sales per business area Sales by significant source, SEK billion Kockums Sale of goods 4,0 10% Dynamics, 62% Aeronautics Surveillance, 18% 23% Support and Services, 14% IPS IPS, 5% 14% Kockums, 1% Long-term contracts 21,2 Support Dynamics Aeronautics, 33% and Services 15% Service assignments 8,0 Dynamics, 9% 16% Aeronautics, 9% Surveillance, 23% Dynamics, 8% Support and Services, 11% Surveillance Surveillance, 18% IPS, 12% 21% Support and Services, 32% Kockums, 12% IPS, 24% Kockums, 9% S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 3 C h a i r m a n ’ s s tat e m e n t Innovation creates a strong base for the future. Saab is developing in a positive Stronger capital base the Swedish defence forces, and Swedish Saab’s work increasingly involves international ­authorities is critical to our success. Saab was way, but we cannot become collaborations and large-scale projects. From founded just before World War II for the complacent. We have to stay this perspective, a robust balance sheet is ­specific ­purpose of guaranteeing the nation’s focused on the future by essential in order to be an effective partner and supply of high-tech defence materiel. Political to be a sustainable business. The approxi­ ­decisions in Sweden continue to this day to ­investing in research and mately SEK 6 billion rights issue last autumn set the basic terms for our business. Saab’s ­development and we have to allows Saab to continue to execute its strat­ role in Sweden is still to secure access to keep pace with our changing egies with renewed confidence. We are very defence materiel and high-tech skills. Today world. Companies that want to grateful for the strong support of our share­ we stand firmly on two legs: a base in Sweden holders in strengthening Saab’s capital base. and an increasingly export-oriented business. continue to grow have to invest more than ever in the right Standing firmly on two legs Changes in the market technology and strive to be Sweden is a country dependent on exports. At the same time, the world is changing faster Swedish companies have never had a large than in a very long time. We are increasingly more competitive both shorthome market and been forced early on to look affected by geopolitics, international political and long-term. abroad for growth. As a result, they are often tensions and protectionism. This is a trend globalized in terms of their customer base and that could threaten Swedish business employees, as well as production and supply ­opportunities. Add to that the impact and chains. This is also true to a growing extent of speed of technological development and you Saab, which today is totally dependent on get a very demanding business landscape exports and partnerships with other countries that requires agility and continuous product to stay on the technological forefront and and service improvement. grow. But more than most of our multination­ To stay competitive, Saab must adapt to als, Saab has its production base in Sweden, the changing business landscape, which and the relationship with our largest customer, means securing more international partner4 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 C h airma n ’ s stateme n t “By co-operating with various partners, Saab can both expand in Sweden and broaden its operations outside the country.” ships and investing heavily in technology and development, while also improving efficien­ cies and holding costs in check. Co-operation for future technology By co-operating with various partners, Saab can both expand in Sweden and broaden its ­operations outside the country. A large part of Saab’s investments is made with partners in various parts of the world. A good example is the collaboration with Boeing to develop the T-X training aircraft, which is helping Saab to strengthen its U.S. presence as well. Saab is also participating actively in the current ­alliance to strengthen the European defence capabilities and the defence industry. While the Board of Directors placed a ­priority during the year on the major development programs in the product portfolio, new investment in research and development also remains important. Positioned for the future Saab’s long-term financial goal is to continue this position. In this way, we stay competitive, to grow sales and profitability. This is neces­create new business and help our customers sary to secure the funds we need to continue to improve their defence capabilities. We also to invest in the future. build know-how and contribute to the depth During the year, we intensified efforts to and breadth of Sweden’s defence capabilities. improve productivity within the company, where a number of measures will be taken. Looking a few years ahead, this will result in a more focused product portfolio and a level of profitability that allows us to continue to invest Stockholm, February 2019 in technological development. Saab today has a strong market position Marcus Wallenberg and invests greatly in technology to build on Chairman S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 5 C E O comme n t Saab stands firmly to take the next step in its growth journey. It has now been several years Strengthened market position and several authorities in various countries and through milestones in development projects partnerships with other defence contractors. since Saab began the journey Saab strengthened its market position during During the year, Saab partnered with BAE to create a stronger market the year after several customers selected our ­Systems, along with Lockheed Martin position and broader inter­ solutions and we expanded cooperations in ­Australia among others, to deliver Australia’s many parts of the world. Several milestones Hunter-class frigates. Saab will integrate the national base. This continued in were reached in major development programcombat management system, weapons and 2018, and now it is time to take mes with successful results. For example, a sensors on these vessels. In the U.S., the Air the next step. Saab creates number of flights were flown with Saab’s Force selected the T-X training aircraft from solutions that make people and ­GlobalEye airborne early warning and control Saab and Boeing. Boeing is the designated system, and in October a Gripen E was testprime contractor for this new, advanced society safe. To ensure that flown for the first time with the Meteor long­system, which will help to train future gene­ this mission can be fulfilled in range air-to-air missile. The flight with Meteor rations of fighter pilots. Together, Saab and the future, Saab has to con­ was part of the ongoing weapon integration in ­Boeing have designed, developed and tested the Gripen E test flight programme. A flight the customised T-X trainer included in the tinue to develop cutting-edge was flown with the second Gripen E as well. ­system. technology, at the same time as In addition, the Swedish submarine HMS we continue to become more ­Gotland was launched in connection with its Strong demand for Saab’s offer Mid-Life Upgrade. Order bookings during the year amounted to efficient and more productive. SEK 28 billion, with an increased backlog of Partnership for strengthened growth small and medium-sized orders. At year-end and local presence 2018, the order backlog amounted to SEK For many years, Saab has been working to 102 billion, 67 per cent of which consists of broaden and strengthen its business outside orders outside Sweden. Our order backlog Sweden. We do so consistently through direct remains strong and is now 3.1 times higher collaborations with armed forces and other than our sales. Growth during the year was 6 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 C E O comme n t to focus more than before on standardisation within the framework of the “Re-shaping” ­initiative. A significant non-recurring expense of MSEK 298 was reported for the identified productivity improvements. Adjusted operating profit increased by 14 per cent to MSEK 2,654, with an operating margin of 7.7 per cent. Research and development strengthens competitiveness In a rapidly changing world, Saab has to ­continuously adapt to competitive conditions. This means keeping our offering updated, which is why we invested 23 per cent of sales in research and development in 2018. A large part of this work is done together with customers in various parts of the world. Combining their needs with the future opportunities that technology offers is critical when developing Saab’s products and services. Collaboration is required between industry, authorities and academia to achieve the best results. Ready for the next step Saab is on a growth journey. Today’s order robust for small and medium-sized orders, backlog ­supports this continued journey, at which shows that large parts of the business the same time that we see further opportuniare seeing high demand. Sales rose by 5 per ties for growth. Capitalising on these oppor­ cent to approximately SEK 33 billion. tunities requires investments in new partnerships and new technologies. To strengthen “Creating solutions to make Increased focus on a more efficient the financial base and make sure Saab can society safe is our mission. organisation capitalise on these opportunities a rights We continued in 2018 to make our operations issue of approximately SEK 6 ­billion was made And it is why we have to more efficient. The focus has been on further in 2018. The rights issue was oversubscribed continue to invest in standardising and creating aligned business and I would like to thank our shareholders supprocesses, so that they contribute to faster porting our journey. Saab now stands strong ­developing cutting-edge customer ­deliveries. To complement our confor the years ahead and the great opportunitechnology and constantly tinuous efficiency work, two major initiatives ties in the ­market. Our 17,000 employees will strive to be faster and more were launched to improve productivity under drive this continued growth through their the names “Re-sizing” and “Re-shaping”, the talents, ­commitment and ­ambition. productive.” first measures of which were taken in the second half of the year. A review is being ­conducted of Saab’s product portfolio, with the aim to reduce it, and of the marketing Stockholm, February 2019 ­organisation with the aim of making this more efficient. Due to developments in auto­mation Håkan Buskhe and digitisation, Saab has decided here as well President & CEO S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 7 C ompetiti v e ad va n tages a n d strateg y Saab has a number of fundamental strengths and competitive advantages that will help us to stay ahead also in the future. Focus on delivering world-leading products The focus in the defence materiel market is on product performance and availability. In armed conflict, high demands are placed on reliability and precision. To earn customers’ trust, Saab has focused on delivering the highest possible product performance and reliability based on generations of development and an in-depth understanding of customers’ needs. Examples of Saab’s leading export position, which is also a result of this performance focus, include the Carl-Gustaf multi-role Prioritise selected markets The Carl-Gustaf man-portable weapon system has been sold weapon, which has been sold over to 40 counand a strong local presence to over 40 countries. tries; the Giraffe, Sea Giraffe and Arthur radar Through acquisitions and by building operasystems, which have been sold to more than tional and market oriented businesses as well ten countries; the Gripen fighter system, which as various partnerships, Saab has established 18% has been sold to six countries; and camoua presence in selected markets such as Ausflage systems from Barracuda, which have tralia, the U.S., the UK and South Africa. Saab is been sold to over 60 countries. Saab intends also established in Brazil through the technolto maintain this focus on developing innovaogy transfer programme for Gripen’s developtive solutions and has a number of ongoing ment. The collaborations with Boeing on the Share of employees development projects. T-X trainer aircraft and with Raytheon on outside Sweden guided ammunition for the Carl-Gustaf have Prioritise effective and agile research further strengthened Saab’s presence in the and development U.S. Saab believes that a strong local presence Saab has a history of developing new pro­ and opportunities for more collaborations betducts and platforms in a timely and cost-effiter enable it to offer a combination of products cient manner, thanks to which the Group can and solutions, both large systems and small be agile in the market and effectively meet products. New products and solutions can in customer demand for new products. Saab’s turn provide access to new markets. ability to keep development costs low is appreciated by customers, who often share Knowledge gained through generations the economic risks in major development proof development and close collaborations jects. Since large projects can be complex and The Group’s production is highly advanced potentially risky in terms of both time and cost, and the skills of its employees are essential. Saab can utilise its strength as a reliable partSaab as a company has contributed over genner as a competitive advantage. erations to maintaining Sweden’s technologiThrough continuous investments in cal readiness by maintaining a culture that research and development, a long-term view encourages development and curiosity. of product lifecycles and qualified employees, ­Talented people and long-term collaborations Saab has been able to limit development with the Swedish armed forces have repeattimes and costs while maintaining or improvedly proven to be the key to successful sysing quality. Saab attaches great importance to tem and product development, and Saab will developing modular and flexible products with continue to focus on talent and work with long lifecycles and invests the necessary other companies and armed forces to improve resources in research and development (R&D) future products. and competent personnel to stay on the forefront of technological development. 8 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 C ompetiti v e ad va n tages a n d strateg y Saab’s strategy to stay a step ahead and maintain a strong market position while meeting customers’ needs in an optimal way, is based on three key components: market, innovation and performance. Three-pronged strategy Saab does. Saab is an international partner To achieve the strategic and financial goals that contributes to increased security and that have been set, Saab operates based on defence capabilities in Sweden and other specific objectives. Saab is working to further countries, which is the foundation of Saab’s strengthen its presence in key markets, commitment to sustainability. develop innovative solutions and acquire companies in priority areas. Internally, effiPositive development ciency programmes are used to continuously A local presence close to customers creates improve productivity. stronger relationships and collaborations and greater insight into customers’ needs. Better Employees and sustainability understanding these needs creates opportuare key elements nities to develop the right combination of The focus is on continuously developing leadproducts and solutions, which in turn means ers and employees to build a culture focused that Saab also becomes more efficient and on performance, innovation and motivation. more focused on project execution, marketing Saab’s employees drive the business forward and sales. and sustainability is reflected in everything Market Through a strong local presence, partnerships and collaborations, the focus is on areas where Saab’s market position is strong and on strengthening its position in areas with good growth opportunities. A long-term approach and responsible business deepen customer relationships and provide greater insight and opportunities to meet future demand for products and services. Innovation The product portfolio is concentrated on innovations in five core areas where diversity and engaged employees drive innovation. Performance The focus is on continuously making functional processes more efficient, developing, producing and delivering more efficiently in a PEOPLE shorter time to meet customer demand and increase their capabilities, implementing an even more business-oriented culture, and developing leaders and employees. S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 9 saab as a n i n v estme n t Saab’s strong growth in recent years has been supported by conscious choices about markets, international partnerships, and research and development. A stronger strategic focus… Since 2016, Saab has had three strategic ­priorities: market, innovation and performance. Market – Focus on selected markets as Sustainability is fully integrated in the strategy well as a strong local presence, partnerships and affects everything Saab does. Saab’s innoand collaborations. vative capabilities and cutting-edge expertise in systems integration, combined with being Innovation – The product portfolio is close to customers around the world, create ­concentrated on innovations in Saab’s five unique opportunities to share insight and core areas with the goal to deliver world-­ know-how with customers. In this way, leading products and solutions. Saab can stay a step ahead and meet the ­market’s growing security needs with new and Performance – Continuous improvements innovative sustainable solutions. At the same to functional processes, project execution time, Saab is working continuously to execute and the way we operate. PEOPLE more efficiently in order to meet long-term profitable growth targets. …has led to an attractive offering and a strong market presence… When geopolitics and technological development changed the international defence market at the end of 2008, Saab took a number of strategic decisions to ensure a strong, longterm market position. Major investments were made over several years to develop the product Gripen Submarines GlobalEye T-X trainer Other portfolio, secure core technologies and create a new marketing organisation. All in an effort to and naval radar systems, the new-generation opment was also an important part of the partcreate a platform for stable and profitable Carl-Gustaf weapon system, the new A26 subnership with Boeing to develop the T-X trainer growth. Several new platforms were developed, marine for Sweden, and a new generation of the for the U.S. Air Force. Today Saab has a strong such as the new generation Gripen for Sweden GlobalEye Airborne Early Warning & Control global presence and, thanks to its unique prodand Brazil, five completely new ground-based system. Saab’s experience from Gripen’s develuct portfolio, a highly attractive offering. Saab’s marketing organisation Europe London, UK North America Middle East & Africa Washington D.C., USA Abu Dhabi, UAE Asia Pacific Latin America Singapore Brasilia, Brazil 10 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 saab as a n i n v estme n t …which has resulted in a number of major orders… 2014 2016 2018 2020 2022 2024 2026 Gripen 39 E Order Feb 2013 Delivery of 60 aircraft 2019–2026 Delivery of 28 Gripen E Gripen 39 NG Order Oct 2014 and 8 Gripen F 2019–2024 Delivery of two sub­ A26 Order Jun 2015 marines 2022–2024 GlobalEye Order Nov 2015 Order Jun 2018 Delivery date not announced Boeing/ Order Sep 2018 Delivery 2022–2034 SAAB T-X Potential new Potential new orders orders In 2013, Saab signed a contract with the Saab acquired Kockums from ThyssenKrupp Early Warning & Control. In September 2018, Swedish Defence Material Administration and in 2015 Sweden ordered the development the U.S. Air Force announced that they (FMV) on Gripen E. Saab will deliver 60 and production of two new submarines and selected the new T-X trainer aircraft that Saab Gripen E to Sweden. In December 2013, Brazil half-time modifications of two existing and Boeing developed together. Today Saab announced that it had selected Gripen as its ­Swedish Gotland-­class submarines. At the has more major development projects future fighter aircraft and Saab received an end of 2015, the United Arab Emirates ordered ­ongoing at the same time than ever before. order for 36 Gripen in 2014. The same year, the new version of Saab’s GlobalEye Airborne …which has driven growth. Since 2014, Saab has had strong sales Sales, BSEK growth, driven by the major development 40 ­projects it is currently working on. 30 20 10 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Saab is now ready for major orders and collaborations. The U.S. Air Force’s choice of Saab and rate and to build the world’s best aircraft at a confidence and provides opportunities for ­Boeing for the T-X programme is a first step in reasonable cost. As defence budgets rise in further growth through new orders and larger a completely new era for Saab. It not only the many regions of the world, Saab sees good collaborations and partnerships, while also foundation of a partnership with Boeing for opportunities to further strengthen its existing creating room for increased investment in many years to come, but also opens up many order backlog and increase future growth. development, production and working capital. opportunities for major new orders and partTo facilitate this growth, however, Saab To support its continued growth, the company nerships in the rest of the world. The order is must be able to successfully compete for decided in October to further strengthen the proof that Saab has demonstrated its unique major new orders. This requires a strong balance sheet through an approximately capabilities in terms of being able to collabo­capital base, which builds long-term customer BSEK 6 rights issue. 2018 Order T-X trainer, Boeing 2015 Rights issue Order Global Eye, UAE to support Saab’s further 2015 2018 growth. Order submarine A26 , Sweden 2016 2017 2011 2015 Order next-generation Order new generation anti-ship missile, FMV 2013 Gripen, Brazil Order Gripen E, FMV S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 11 strategic priorities The road to reach the long-term goals has been staked out through priority activities in the three strategic focus areas. The road ahead A number of initiatives were taken in 2018 to further streamline the organisation in order to achieve the More focused marketing long-term profitability goals and create room for in selected markets ­further investments in research and development. • Industrial partnerships and technology transfers All business areas and Group functions have well-­ MARKET defined savings programmes in place, and extensive • Focused marketing investments analysis work is underway on marketing, the product • Increased local presence and partnerships portfolio and digitisation of internal processes. • Increased medium-sized order bookings • Compliance with export regulations • Zero tolerance for corruption Learn more on pages 16–23, 56–57 and 62–63 Reduced and more concentrated product portfolio • Invest in pioneering technologies • Concentrate the product portfolio I N N OVAT I O N on ­innovations in five core areas • Increased R&D collaborations with selected customers internationally • University partnerships • Attract talent and promote education and an interest in technology • Promote diversity Learn more on pages 24–29, 60–61 and 64–65 PEOPLE Higher degree of digitisation and process simplification PERFORMANCE • More efficient processes • Digitisation and automation • Information security • Develop leaders and employees • Responsible supplier relationships • Reduce GHG emissions, increase resource efficiency and phase out hazardous chemical substances Learn more on pages 30–35, 58–59 and 60–64 12 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 strategic priorities Connection to the Long-term goals Results 2018 UN’s Global Goals • Be well-established in selected markets • 71 per cent of order bookings and and have a strong local presence 67 per cent of the order backlog were ­outside Sweden • Organic sales growth will average • 18 per cent of our employees were outside 5 per cent per year over a business cycle Sweden • Organic sales growth was 4 per cent 71% order bookings outside Sweden Peace, justice and strong institutions with the target of substantially reducing all forms of corruption. • Be an industry leader in innovation in the five • 6.7 per cent of sales was invested in selfcore areas funded research and development • 54 PhD candidates during the year • Have a product portfolio consisting of technologically leading solutions and • 23.5 per cent of employees and 25.1 per products adapted to the market’s needs cent of managers were women Quality education for all. • Established products and services based on digital capacity, secure communication and effective data management that meet the customer’s requirements Gender equality. 54 • At least 25 per cent of employees and 30 per cent of managers will be women by 2025 Encourage innovation and substantially increase the number of people working PhD candidates research and development. • The operating margin (EBIT) will average at • The operating margin adjusted for non-­ least 10 per cent per year over a business recurring items was 7.7 per cent cycle. • The equity/assets ratio was 35.0 per cent • The equity/assets ratio will exceed • GHG emissions from Saab’s operations 30 per cent decreased by 3.3 per cent (related to 2017) • Reduce Saab’s GHG emissions by 33 per cent by 2030 (related to 2017) 7.7% Adjusted operating margin Climate action. S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 13 M arket a n d tre n ds The geopolitical climate Saab operates in is characterised by increased uncertainty and rapid technological development. In 2018, geopolitical uncertainty increased, which led many countries Saab’s products are sold to over 100 countries and the company to invest more in their defence capabilities. At the same time, rapid ­currently operates in 35 countries. Research and development are technological developments are making it possible to continuously ­concentrated in Sweden. Saab has employees mainly in Europe, develop more effective defence and security solutions. South Africa, the U.S, Australia and Brazil. Saab’s markets Saab is active in the defence market and in commercial aeronautics, and commercial markets with submarkets as shown in the following infrastructure security and traffic management with solutions, services matrix, which describes which business areas are active in each market and products where Saab is either the main supplier of platforms and segment. For the full-year 2018, 85 per cent of sales was from systems directly to the end-customer or is a subcontractor of subsysdefence-related products and services, while the remaining 15 per tems and components. Saab also supplies consumables, spare parts cent related to commercial products and services. and training. Saab categorises its main markets as the defence market Market segment Defence market Commercial markets Security Technological and traffic consulting Business area Air Land Naval Air management services Aeronautics ■ Dynamics ■ ■ ■ ■ Surveillance ■ ■ ■ Support and Services ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ Industrial Products and Services ■ ■ ■ ■ Kockums ■ Share of sales, 2018 85% 15% +1.5 +1.7 +0.3 Russia and CIS* 5% +2.6 Europe 14% North America 49% Middle East and North Africa 7% +1.6 +4.0 Sub-Saharan Africa <1% +4.4 Asia and Pacific 24% Latin America 1% Upper figure: Projected average annual growth rate in per cent 2019–2024. Lower figure: Share of the global market for defence materiel 2018. Source: IHS Janes * Commonwealth of Independent States 14 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 M arket a n d tre n ds Market trends Security policy Cost-efficient products and solutions Sustainable solutions In recent years, geopolitical turmoil in the Defence spending is limited at the same time In a global world with limited energy resources, world has forced many countries to reassess that demand for cost-efficient and modern environmental degradation and climate their defence capabilities, both nationally and defence and security systems is growing. This threats, companies have to commit to social multilaterally. This, together with the fact that applies to products that have already been and environmental sustainability. In 2015, the several countries in Europe have been the developed as well as new ones that have to be UN introduced new sustainable development ­target of terrorism, has led to increased developed together with customers. For existgoals and challenged businesses to adopt defence budgets. Multilateral alliances such ing products and systems, customers mainly them. as NATO and the EU are also investing more in want proven, robust systems at a low initial their defence capabilities. price and short delivery times. It is also critical Saab’s response that the products can be used and maintained The environment and sustainability in a broad Saab’s response cost-efficiently. When developing advanced sense are guiding lights for Saab. The compaSaab’s customers want to work with sophi­ systems, Saab has to be able to offer customny’s environmental work is evaluated and sticated suppliers that understand global ers an organisation with access to the highest reported annually. Saab helps to develop interdependencies as well as their specific technological expertise and research re­sour­ ­solutions that combine higher energy per­ ­situation. In the last decade, Saab has built up ces at a reasonable cost. formance with lower costs and less impact. a marketing organisation with local hubs With energy savings and green technology around the world at the same time that the Saab’s response transfers and innovation, Saab also contribproduct portfolio has been upgraded. The Saab has worked for a very long time with the utes to technological and economic developorganisation has meant that the company can Swedish defence and the armed forces of ment in the markets where it is active. maintain close and lasting relationships with several other countries, which makes it customers wherever they operate. uniquely qualified for collaboration and Industrial collaborations ­systems integration. Saab has always had to and technology transfers Collaborations and interoperability cost-efficiently integrate systems from differMore and more countries are demanding Security concerns have forced many count­ ent suppliers when designing its solutions and extensive industrial cooperations in connecries to invest more in recent years in national products. This has resulted in lower costs for tion with defence purchases. This cooperation defence and security at the same time that the Saab and its systems and solutions, and a can mean transfers of technology or knowlneed for multilateral peacekeeping has cost-efficient product lifecycle. edge, research partnerships or assistance in remained high. The peacekeeping operations building up the local industry. The primary aim are staffed and equipped by different count­ Technological development is to develop the local capabilities and ries, and demand is increasing for defence Information and communication technology ­industry. systems that are designed to easily work and (ICT) has permeated today’s society. A growintegrate with those of other countries. Similar ing number of processes at all levels are being Saab’s response demands are placed on national armed forces, digitised, increasing vulnerabilities. Secure Since its systems and solutions are known for since they are expected in the event of a and resilient systems and solutions are a interoperability and systems integration, Saab ­conflict or war to collaborate with allies. necessity. The rapid technological developis able to offer local collaborations and techment is facilitating faster development of nology transfers. A close cooperation with Saab’s response ­systems with new capabilities. Swedish authorities and other companies has This trend requires Saab to develop cost-­ been important to the development of efficient and intelligent systems that can be Saab’s response ­Sweden’s defence capabilities as well as for coordinated and integrated with other Saab reinvests a large share of its sales in other countries. With employees on the ­systems. Cooperations and development research and development. The company has ground in the local market, Saab also gains a together with customers and partners have always invested in robust solutions to protect better understanding of the country’s needs, shaped Saab from the start. Saab’s solutions against disruptions and attacks for its entire capabilities and procurement processes. and systems are designed for collaboration offering. Close, continuous dialog with cusand integration. This is the company’s core tomers, partners and universities ensures that competence. Saab is a technological leader in its special­ ties. In addition, faster development cycles require an improved and more efficient development and delivery process. Saab develops and is constantly raising the efficiency of ­internal processes to stay on the forefront. S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 15 STR ATEGIC PRIORITIES Market The market Saab operates in, both ­nationally and internationally, is changing rapidly, and Saab has to act faster to stay ahead. The focus is on areas where the company has a strong market position and on further strengthening that position in areas with good growth potential. 71% of order bookings outside Sweden 67% of the order backlog outside Sweden 4% organic sales growth S t r at e gy – M a r k e t Saab is a long-term, reliable business partner and promotes an open and transparent market. A local presence, partnerships and collaborations are critical. They provide greater insights and opportunities to offer the right combination of products and solutions. Industrial cooperations and technology transfers Industrial cooperations are an important element in Saab’s international growth. One of the cornerstones of the company’s ­strategy is to increase its local presence in priority markets with growth potential. To achieve this, cooperations with local companies, research centres or others in the community are an important component. Not all defence deals require industrial cooperation. Some countries do by law, but others do not. There are countries where the customer will decide from one deal to the next whether an industrial cooperation is needed and how it is structured. The focus from Saab’s side is to always abide by market terms and create long-term profitability. In this way, industrial cooperations support Saab’s strategy to be more local and work closely with customers for the benefit of all the parties involved. Saab participates in several innovative, broad-based partnerships between indu30 countries, Saab is able to maintain close After a comprehensive Mid-Life stry, the public sector and the research Upgrade (MLU) to meet future contact with all its customers. naval challenges, the Swedish world. These partnerships expand on Saab’s A local presence is critical for both HMS Gotland submarine was know-how and make it possible to better defence or civil security solutions. launched in June 2018. understand and meet customer demand. Targeted marketing initiatives Partnerships Since 2013, Saab’s marketing organisation One strategy Saab uses to reach new has been divided into market areas. In the ­markets is through partnerships or as a current organisation the five market areas ­subcontractor. The partnership with Boeing are: Europe, North America, Latin America, on the T-X trainer for the U.S. Air Force is an the Middle East & Africa and Asia Pacific. example, and during the year successfully This organisation has strengthened Saab’s produced an initial order. The T-X is not the local presence in selected markets and only example, however. In the U.S., Saab is a ­helped it to grow mainly outside Sweden. subcontractor to several major defence Saab focuses its investments on markets contractors, and in other markets it is as a where it already has a strong position and on partner that Saab reaches new markets and areas with good growth potential. customers. For customers, this means access to more specialised skills, at the same time that Increased local presence Saab gains stronger insight into the market. A local presence and greater business Today Saab works closer to customers than orientation are critical to win important deals ever before and is better able to offer the in an increasingly complex market. Saab’s right combination of products and solutions. strong local presence creates more opporMajor international deals come with tunities to offer the right product and solu­opportunities and demands to establish tion. Saab develops and evaluates its offers operations in the customer’s country. Here continuously in order to capitalise on marketing plays a role, to show customers ­growing opportunities in more markets that they are getting something back not around the world. Through its strong base only through the deliveries but also in the in Sweden and local presence in over form of jobs and industrial development. S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 17 S trateg y – M arket Saab has established operations in a number of countries. This applies to both production and development. In Brazil, a new production facility was opened in 2018. At the same time, development work is being done there to develop the two-seat version of Gripen NG, Gripen F. In the U.S., Saab will establish a ­production unit that will be ready when series orders for the T-X are expected from the U.S. Air Force. The business areas Surveillance, Dynamics and Support and Services already have operating units in the U.S. Saab’s operations in Australia are another example of a successful long-term local presence. Increased medium-sized orders For Saab, it is important to have a steady inflow of small and medium-sized orders. The delivery time to the customer is shorter than for more complex solutions, and as a result it takes less time to convert the orders to revenue and profit. The installed base, i.e. previously sold solutions, is important to grow medium-sized orders, since a large Zero tolerance for corruption A global high-tech leader, Saab offers ­p ro­d ucts, solutions and services in defence percentage of small and medium-sized Saab is a long-term, reliable business partand security. In 2018, the Group had orders are often tied to an upgrade of prener and promotes an open and transparent ­customers in over 100 countries. vious orders for complex systems. During market. Corruption has negative conseThe Giraffe AMB radar is shown above. the year, medium-sized orders increased by quences for society and business and is 44 per cent. something Saab can never accept. Saab is guided by its fundamental values, the Code Export compliance of Conduct, current laws, industry codes of For Saab, it is essential to comply with conduct and clearly defined internal procesdefence export regulations. This is critical to ses to prevent corruption risks. Prior to each maintain trust in the business. deal, the Company perform corruption risk The majority of Saab’s exports are from analysis. If Saab cannot satisfactorily miniSweden, where the Swedish Agency for mise and manage the identified risks, Saab Non-Proliferation and Export Controls (ISP) withdraws from the deal. determines on behalf of the government To gain entry to new markets, multi­natio­ which defence products Swedish industry nal companies often hire marketing con­ may sell to which countries. The export of sultants and other partners in the selling defence materiel requires a permit from the process. Saab does as well. This can help to competent authority. Such permits can be understand how a market works, but can issued if there are security and defence also increase exposure to corruption risks. policy reasons for the export and it is consisSaab therefore apply a strict process in tent with Swedish foreign policy interests. which cooperations with marketing consulDecisions on export permits are made on a tants and other partners in the selling procase-by-case basis where ISP weighs a cess are evaluated and approved by a cennumber of criteria in a comprehensive tral function at Saab that manages all such assessment. ISP also takes into account the relationships. These partners also have to type of product involved. undergo special training and pledge to abide Saab also has its own internal processes Saab’s ethical values and guidelines. During to weigh in risks associated e.g. human the year, Saab launched a special process to rights when evaluating new business manage corruption risks in connection with ­opportunities. Just like licensing authorities, industrial cooperations (see next page). Saab conducts an overall assessment in which several factors are considered. The Company's position is that trade with other countries can be a way to foster ­positive development. 18 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 S trategy – M arket In 2018, Saab broadened its preventive anti-corruption work and developed a special process to manage corruption risks associated with industrial cooperations. Three of Saab’s employees offer their views on Saab’s anti-corruption work and the new process. “Saab is on the cutting edge in fighting corruption. Our processes are continuously upgraded and adapted to new laws and regulations, so that we can continue to do business ethically. One example is the new process to assess industrial cooperations, thanks to which we can feel comfortable knowing that we are working with companies that have an ethical compass and no skeletons in the closet.” Johan Wretman Commercial Director Business Area Surveillance “By continuously improving our processes, need to cooperate with local partners the bar has been raised on how we deal with around the world. One example worth corruption issues. Saab’s progressive ­mentioning is the new process for industrial stance on corruption inspires confidence cooperations, which includes better and is essential to a sustainable business. screening and more in-depth risk analyses.” The driving force is to constantly strengthen the business culture at the Lamija Dzuho same time that the tools we use have to fit Commercial Manager the complexity of our business and our Business Area Dynamics “Structured, dedicated anti-corruption will undoubtedly grow in the future, it is work clearly separated from businesses especially important that our expertise in with a high risk of corruption is extremely this area is continuously expanded.” important and one of the success ­factors for Saab in the current business environment. The new process for ­industrial cooperations clarifies internal Åke Falck responsibilities and roles. Since Saab’s Legal Counsel industrial cooperations with local partners Group Legal Affairs S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 19 S trateg y – M arket Saab today has a distinctly global footprint and delivers security and defence capabilities to customers around the world. In an increasingly complex market, a local presskills transfers as well as various forms of indusSaab also participates in a number of other ence is critical to win strategically important trial cooperation that in addition to strengthencollaborations, including close development deals. By gradually expanding its local presing the country’s defence capabilities are partnerships with suppliers and customers. ence, Saab’s has created international partnerdesigned to build up industrial know-how and Saab contributes to broad-based innovation ships and strengthened its market position in contribute to positive economic development. partnerships between industry, academia and the world in recent years. Many important For Saab, there are benefits to spreading the public sector. These partnerships expand orders for high-tech platforms have led to an knowledge through technology transfers. Saab’s knowledge base while strengthening increased internationalisation and a unique ­People from different companies, organisarelationships with customers. Diversity and portfolio. Today Saab is on every continent. tions and cultures meet and come up with new different ways of thinking drive innovation, and When Saab signs large defence contracts, business ideas that create value for all the the fact that Saab conducts research and they usually contain more than just a product ­parties involved. Many times this generates development work on several continents sale. Many countries also want technology and new business and opportunities for growth. makes the company more competitive. North America Latin America Middle East & Africa North America and the U.S. have the world’s Latin America is in need of a major military The Middle East is the region of the world largest defence budget – both historically modernisation, and the region’s defence that imports the most materiel from other and for the foreseeable future. A very strong budgets are therefore expected to have the countries, corresponding to just over 80 per defence industry means, however, that the highest growth rate in the world in the next cent of the region’s defence budgets. U.S. only imports about 1 per cent of its total five years, though starting from historically The market is highly dependent on the materiel. For Saab, this makes a local very low levels. Countries in the region, price of oil and materiel is usually acquired ­presence and collaborations with the U.S. especially Brazil, are trying to re-establish from allies. industry essential, as the partnership with their industry capabilities, and here Saab Boeing on the T-X deal is a very successful plays an important role with an existing Key markets & position example of. Gripen contract, but also in many other Saab’s key markets in the region are the product areas. UAE and South Africa with products mainly Key markets & position in airborne surveillance radar and self-­ The U.S. is one of Saab’s key markets, where Key markets & position protection, but Saab is also working to our largest products in addition to T-X are in Brazil is Saab’s key market in the region. strengthen its commercial offering in the the sensor segment, air traffic manageThe largest products in ­addition to Gripen market. ment, ground combat and camouflage are in air defence and naval ­applications. products. Saab is working actively to expand its local presence in the market and more closely with customers and partners in the region. 20 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 S t r at e gy – M a r k e t Gripen Submarines GlobalEye T-X trainer Other Europe Asia Pacific Sales 2018 by market area MSEK 20,000 The European defence market is currently The region’s defence material budgets 16,000 characterised by increased needs and ­represent about 25 per cent of the global demand. A number of initiatives have been total. China, which accounts for approxi12,000 launched to harmonise the European mately 12 per cent, is not a market for Saab. defence industry and increase the number In Singapore, Saab has a research 8,000 of development partnerships between ­collaboration with Nanyang Technological 4,000 countries and industries. University to develop advanced digital ­technology in air traffic management. 0 Key markets & position North America Latin America Middle East & Africa Europe To secure and strengthen the Company's Key markets & position Asia Pacific position, it is essential for Saab to expand Saab’s key markets in this region are India, and deepen its industry ­collaborations in where ground combat, self-protection and Europe. Aside from ­Sweden, Finland, the UK air traffic management are the most and Germany are the key markets for Saab. ­important products with growth potential, Saab is participating in the first developand Australia, which for Saab is a major ment project of the European Defence ­market in the naval segment and civil Order bookings by business area Fund, Ocean 2020, in partnership with ­security solutions. ­Italy’s Leonardo and other European defence contractors. MSEK 8,000 6,000 4,000 2,000 0 Aeronautics Dynamics Surveillance Support and Services Industrial Products and Services Kockums S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 21 S trateg y – M arket Case Successful collaboration with Boeing Boeing T-X is a totally new, advanced pilot training system develo­ oncept, we could fully benefit from the latest technology, tools and c ped by Boeing in collaboration with Saab, specifically for the U.S. Air manufacturing methods.” Force. It includes trainer aircraft, land-based training and support. Why did Boeing choose to work with Saab? The U.S. Air Force plans to buy 351 T-X aircraft, 46 simulators and “Saab has the right mix of technological expertise and global pre­ related land-based equipment, but could order up to 475 aircraft sence. It has been a successful collaboration that we are very proud and 120 simulators as part of the current contract. The initial order of. Together, our companies have developed a fantastic product that for MUSD 813 is for engineering and manufacturing development is capable and cost-efficient and is also so flexible that it can accom­ (EMD) and includes five aircraft and seven simulators. modate future missions.” “In this project we have redefined what is possible with limited What future customers do you have in mind? ­development costs. We went from finished concept to first flight in “We truly appreciate the interest that we are getting from various 36 months,” says Steve Parker, Vice President and T-X Program parts of the world and expect that the training system will become a Manager at Boeing. “It is a remarkable achievement.” franchise solution for many air forces around the world. At the ­programme level, we are totally focused on delivering to the U.S. Air “We were always focused on smart growth, so that the system can Force in accordance with the terms of the contract. In addition, we be developed and modified for new technology, missions and see great potential to supply training systems to other domestic or needs,” he continued. “Since we began with a completely new international customers. We also see potential in the light combat aircraft segment in the U.S. and internationally,” says Steve Parker. 22 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 S t r at e gy – M a r k e t Case Global innovation partnerships strengthen growth Saab’s major sales campaigns often coincide with an ambition to Research and Innovation Centre CISB in Brazil. The organisation has grow in new markets. This is done in among other ways by contri­ 17 members and over 100 partners. Saab is also one of the found­ buting to the society by fostering technological development and ers of the Swiss-Swedish Innovation Initiative, a virtual innovation growth. The idea is to bring the Swedish innovation system to platform that brings together research, innovation organisations customer’s country through partnerships in innovation, entre­ and companies in Sweden and Switzerland. The platform has been preneurship and business development. very successful and in four years has contributed to a significant increase in the number of bilateral research projects. Saab recently “The Swedish way of collaborating between industry, academia established research and innovation centres in Finland and and the public sector has proven successful, especially in the digital ­Singapore as well. arena, and we want to take that with us to new markets,” says ­Magnus Ahlström, Vice President Global innovation at Saab. “Many potential customers want to acquire the technologies and capabilities we can offer,” says Magnus Ahlström. “This gives us an Saab and Sweden are seen by many countries as leaders in entre­ opportunity to participate early on in their projects and network at preneurship and innovative thinking, and Saab’s role as a research every level of the customer’s country. Collaborating this way also and development partner is an important door opener for business. makes it easier for us to mobilise and collaborate with others in For example, Saab is one of the founders of the Swedish-Brazilian ­Sweden who support the bilateral partnership.” S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 23 STR ATEGIC PRIORIT Y Innovation Saab has been shaped by fierce ­competition and strict requirements on low product lifecycle costs. Saab knows what is needed and how to get there: the latest technology, the ­smartest solutions and the newest innovations. Saab’s competent and engaged employees are the key, and Saab believes that diversity drives 6 7% . of sales revenues innovation. in self-funded research and development 22 8% . of sales revenue in research and development 23 5% . women globally S tr at e gy – I n n o vati o n Saab has to constantly challenge, question and develop new innovations in order to stay on the forefront and remain a leader in the development of cost-efficient systems and products. Innovative systems solutions in complex systems integration. The operational and lifecycle perspective, which Saab’s high-tech businesses play an imporGlobalEye Airborne Early Warning & Control takes into account not only the cost to buy, but tant role in society to drive sustainable techsystem is an example of this capability. It is also costs to own and operate. Reliability, nological development and create secure based on Saab’s expertise in a number of ­availability and perseverance are the keys. societies. Saab’s development philosophy areas: radar, command, control and communiand methodology, together with the advanced cation systems, and aircraft integration. Few Consolidation of the product portfolio products and solutions Saab offers, generate suppliers in the world have the capacity to In 2018, Saab began a reassessment of the know-how, solutions and innovations for the deliver such advanced systems. Group’s product portfolio. The goal is to idenfuture. Changing threat scenarios, coupled tify products that do not create greater value with rapid technological development, are Competitive systems in civil security and improve the company’s return. The aim is placing increasing demands on Saab’s pro­ Through innovations, Saab can also offer to reduce the number of products in the Group ducts and capabilities. competitive civil security systems. The comby consolidating various parts and utilising pany’s technology is used in airports, prisons, economies of scale, divesting unprofitable R&D investments in five core areas hospitals, seaports and cities to protect major parts or selling them. This reduces the Group’s The company has to continuously challenge, events such as state visits and sports events. costs, while margins improve and funds are question and develop new innovations to stay SAFE, Remote Tower, TactiCall, OneView and secured for future R&D. on the cutting edge. Saab therefore invests Aeronbahn are examples of products that about a quarter of its annual sales in research ­protect borders, people and goods. and development (R&D). The strategy is to concentrate R&D investments in five core Cost efficiency leader areas: aeronautics, advanced weapons sysThe Saab air traffic control solutions help tems, command and control systems, sensors ­customers to reduce both costs and carbon and underwater systems, with the training and emissions, se page 33. Many of Saab’s prodsupport as integral parts. Saab invests in ucts and systems are leaders in terms of Life product areas where the company is, or can Cycle Cost (LCC). Saab works continuously become, a technological leader. with innovations to reduce development and operating costs for various systems. Broad knowledge in military systems ­Customer demand for efficiency, especially Saab can supply customers with everything the demands that the Swedish armed forces from complex platforms such as the Gripen have placed on Saab since it was founded, system and the A26 submarine to less comhave driven the company to take a holistic plex, robust systems such as the Carl Gustaf approach rather than looking at separate man-portable weapon and Saab’s extensive parts. Saab has a ­tradition of doing the most radar and robot families. Saab is a world leader with limited resources, as evidenced by this FIVE CORE AREAS 1. Aeronautics 2. Advanced weapon 3. Command and control 4. Sensors 5. Underwater systems Development of advanced ­systems systems Airborne early warning and The A26 submarine and military and civil aviation Anti-tank weapons, missiles Systems to control and control systems, air defence, ­autonomous vehicles as well ­technology, including the and ammunition as well as ­coordinate military operations surveillance and surfaceas underwater detection, ­Gripen combat aircraft integrated command and as well as civil traffic managebased air defence. weapon, self-protection and ­system. control systems and network ment on land, at sea and in communication systems. solutions. the air. S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 25 S t r at e g y – I n n o vat i o n Diversity drives innovation We at Saab have a firm belief, which is supLouise Fuchs is one of Saab’s ported by research, that the different perspec54 doctoral students tives diversity brings to the organisation are a An important factor for Saab’s innovative source of innovation. For Saab, it is important capabilities are cooperations with universithat all employees realise the importance of ties. Saab partners with several universities diversity and appreciate each other’s unique both in and outside Sweden. These contributions to the company. Diversity is an ­partnerships give Saab’s employees the important parameter in Saab’s global recruitopportunity to do research for a PhD, while ing process and is included in the company’s researchers and students from the schools leadership training. Gender equality has long have a chance to get involved in Saab’s been an important issue for Saab. In ten years, work. Saab currently has 54 doctoral from 2007 till 2017, Saab doubled the share of ­students. One of them is Louise Fuchs, women in management positions. Persistence who is working toward a PhD in artificial and continuously measuring and following up intelligence and machine learning for have been important success factors. The underwater robots. goal is to increase the share of female managers to 30 per cent globally and 35 per cent in Sweden by 2025. At the end of 2018, women “The advantage of being a doctoral student is having one accounted for 25.1 per cent of Saab’s managers globally and 28.5 per cent in Sweden. leg in each world. One in the industry, where the domain knowledge is, and one in academia, with its theoretical knowledge and access to the latest research. The combination of the two creates great opportunities for innovation.” Saab in South Africa is a forerunner in diversity work and has initiated several projects aimed at people who have ­previously had difficulty getting a job due to apartheid. The projects align with the South African government’s action plan to overcome social and economic ­imbalances. To broaden its future recruiting base, Saab has activities to encourage young women to take an increased interest in engineering. For two days during the summer Tina Bhoja is one of the participants in a programme to give the unemployed who were disadvacation, 11 girls who graduated eighth grade visited vantaged by apartheid an opportunity to enter the job market. The programme is run by Saab in South Saab in Arboga, where they met female engineers and Africa and offers the participants 18 months of participated in practical exercises. training and practical experience at Saab, after which they are hired. 26 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 S trategy – I n n o vatio n Promoting education and an interest in technology To stay competitive in the future, Saab has to Several of Saab’s employees in Australia serve as mentors retain and develop its employees and attract in a programme called “Subs in schools technology new talent. Saab encourages primary and ­challenge” to promote an interest in technology and the secondary school students to pursue a higher education by demonstrating the opportunities defence industry among secondary school students. they can find in mathematics, technology and Shown below are four mentors from Saab with students research. Saab’s own employees often participate in the activities. from St. Peters Girls School in Adelaide. “Being a mentor is a good way to do good while gaining valuable experience in leadership and project management,” says Jacob Shearer, one of the mentors from Saab. Female Role Model of the Year Maria Paavola, founder of Teknikkvinnor, a network for women in technology, was named Female Role Model of the Year 2018, an award presented annually by Saab. 6 Saab’s ranking in Universum's survey of Swedish engineering students’ favourite places to work. For one week during the summer vacation, Saab in Linköping arranged summer engineering school for ­15–16 year-old students, who were taught 3D ­printing, measurement technology, robotic welding, reading drawings and b ­ uilding aircraft out of metal. S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 27 S trateg y – I n n o vatio n Case Artificial Intelligence A powerful tool to develop sensors Artificial intelligence (AI) represents a paradigm shift in technology that One of the areas where Saab is working on advanced AI is cognitive in a brief time has had a major impact on large swaths of society, and sensor systems for radar and electronic warfare, which are important Saab is acting decisively to tap into the opportunities that AI offers. e.g. for Gripen. In a cognitive system, the sensor gets a much better Pattern recognition is one of the areas where AI has proven most understanding of surrounding signals where it is operating at the time, ­useful. This includes identifying objects in moving images from a TV and in this way can be continuously optimised for the highest possible sensor, a problem that is very difficult for traditional methods to handle. performance during a mission. AI is already better than people at image recognition. Another application is in cybersecurity. AI is used there to manage An important component in many of Saab’s products are advanced loads and security in networks for cloud platforms as well as to detect sensors for radar, electronic warfare, cybersecurity, signal intelligence, and divert cyberattacks. communication, sonar, surveillance etc. These sensors generate large amounts of data that has to be quickly and efficiently processed in order to identify patterns/information. AI is a powerful tool for this. 28 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 S t r at e gy – I nn o vati o n Case Ventures Find solutions, build companies and create value Saab Ventures is a concrete example of how advanced military For the forestry industry it offers a system to automatically measure technology can be used to create value in other industries. logging truck loads. This helps customers to improve the measureBy identifying needs in non-core markets that can be solved using ment process and transport efficiency. Today the majority of large advanced Saab technologies, considerable value can be created. Swedish forestry companies are customers of CIND, which is Saab has a long and strong tradition of successful spin-offs, ­t hereby helping one of the country’s most important industries be ­stretching from cars and computers to 3D mapping. even more competitive. “By combining Saab’s technology with capital, domain knowledge A number of projects were carried out in 2018 in partnership with and entrepreneurship, strong spin-offs can be established,” says customers to find new applications for the company’s technology. Roger Persson, Investment Director and Saab’s man in charge of one of the successful spinoffs, CIND. “CIND has expanded its operations to the logistics industry and offers a solution to measure volumes of goods and logistics termin­ CIND was started in 2016 and for two years in a row has been named als, which helps customers to optimise transports and estimate one of Sweden’s 33 Hot Start-Ups (Top 33 List). The company transport costs correctly,” adds Roger Persson. ­utilises patent pending image processing technology that origi­n ­ ated in missile technology development. The products are based on In the years to come, the company will launch new products for the stereo camera technology, which is used to calculate the volume of forestry industry, continue to grow in the logistics industry and timber stacks, for example. begin to sell its systems outside Sweden, both in forestry products and logistics. S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 29 STR ATEGIC PRIORIT Y Performance In a world of constant change and fierce competition, high efficiency and shorter lead times are essential in order to meet customer demands with technology and solutions that increase their capabilities and profitability. Saab has to be able to deliver more for less, which is why raising efficiency is a continuous process. 77% . Adjusted operating margin The focus is on improving ­processes, developing leaders and employees, and implementing an even more businessoriented culture. 35 0% . Equity/ assets ratio -3 3% . GHG emissions have been reduced by 3.3 per cent since 2017 S trategy – P erforma n ce Reaching its long-term financial goals is Saab’s highest priority. This focus was reaffirmed in 2018 through two Group-wide initiatives: Re-shaping and Re-sizing. Continuous process Continued growth competence synergies between the Reaching its long-term financial goals is Saab has maintained solid sales growth in ­programmes, where knowledge is shared Saab’s highest priority. Consequently, Saab recent years, and on average over the last between programmes. It is critical that all works continuously to improve processes at three years the long-term sales goal has been ­contracts and projects are completed and every level. Getting all employees involved in reached. Continued growth is a priority and is ­followed up, so that any discrepancies can be this effort is critical to its success. important for many reasons. With higher voladdressed early on. In 2018, the job continued by standardising ume comes a larger base to allocate shared and creating uniform business processes, so costs. A larger base leads to operational leverNew initiatives that they require less resources and lead to age and improved margins. In addition to the day-to-day work being done faster deliveries. In addition, other projects to increase efficiencies, two new initiatives and initiatives focused on improving efficienContinued focus on project were started in 2018 to improve profitability. cies were on-going. and programme implementation Learn more about the two initiatives – Re-­ Saab raised its operating margin adjusted Saab is currently conducting more and larger sizing and Re-shaping – below. for items affecting comparability ­during the development programmes simultaneously year and took another step toward its long-­ than ever before. Complex programmes build term goal of an operating margin of 10 per cent. competence in the company. There are also Re-sizing In the Re-sizing project all business units have analysed and identified measures to raise the company's efficiency in terms of sales per employee. The number of ­consultants will be reduced. This is because the larger programmes are in a period of transition from having been focused on development to becoming more focused on production. In this stage there is less need for development resources. In the third quarter of 2018, expenses were allocated for workforce reductions. Re-shaping The Re-shaping initiative is divided into three sees as necessary to continue to invest in organisational structure and now sees parts: the product, decisions will or have been opportunities to further improve marketing made to take mitigating measures. The efficiency through a greater focus on the key 1. Review of Saab’s product portfolio measures can include a plan to improve markets identified in each region. Saab invests in product innovation mainly in ­profitability, merge the product areas or its core businesses and where the company ­ultimately discontinue the products. 3. Digitisation and automation is, or can become, a market or technological Technological development, digitisation and leader. Saab today has a broad product port2. Marketing efficiency artificial intelligence are helping us to work folio containing several hundred products. Saab has built up a successful marketing smarter and more efficiently. Parts of the Very many of the various product areas have organisation in recent years covering large company have successfully improved synergies with each other and are often used parts of the global market. The structure has administrative efficiency through standarditogether in various solutions. In cases where proven successful and contributed to Saab’s sation and automation. This trend continues. the products do not reach their goals or do strong market position and high order not contribute to the synergies that Saab ­backlog. Saab continuously evaluates its S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 31 S trateg y – P erforma n ce Focus on information and IT security the company, employees are offered several sions by at least 33 per cent compared to Saab manages information that is vitally forms of skills and leadership training. Some of 2017. The goal is consistent with the Paris important to its customers and in many cases it is mandatory for all employees and is proAgreement and the goal to limit global warmto Sweden’s and other nations’ security. In an vided flexibly and cost efficiently using e-training to less than 2° Celsius. increasingly uncertain world with growing ing. The most important part of an employee’s Saab’s broad product portfolio contains a cybersecurity challenges, continuous and development, however, takes place on the job large number of products and services that systematic information and IT security is in interactions with colleagues, who share have a positive impact on the environment. ­critical. Saab works constantly to improve its their know-how and experience. Individual The company also participates in several global security management, a key element of Performance Management (IPM) reviews are research and development partnerships to which is risk management. Every employee an important tool where each employee and create sustainable solutions for the future. and manager has to understand their role in their supervisor together set personal goals the security work. In 2018, Saab continued to tied to the company’s overarching business Responsible supplier relationships implement its information and IT security objectives. During the year, Saab prepared to Saab in most cases has close, long-term relastrategy, in part through employee training. implement a new uniform system support with tionships with its suppliers, which is vital in Taking advantage of the opportunities that standardised HR processes for among other order to provide customers with world-class new information technology offers requires things recruitment, performance manageproducts. Saab sees its suppliers as an extenthat information and IT security is fully intement, talent management, training and sion of the Company's own operations and grated with business and technological devel­managing employee data. requires that they take the same social and opment. To achieve higher performance, Saab has environmental responsibility as Saab does. Saab’s systems are secure and resilient in to offer a safe, secure and healthy place of Systematic measures to ensure that responsithe face of growing cyberthreats. In building work. During the year, Saab developed a global bility is being taken in the supply chain not only this capability Saab has developed a level of process to proactively address occupational minimises risks, but also leads to improvecompetence that the Company is now preparhealth and safety and began its implementaments in the quality of the products the Coming to offer to external customers. Saab theretion. pany buys. Saab is making an ongoing effort fore started a new business unit in 2018 solely to minimise social and environmental risks in dedicated to cybersecurity solutions. New environmental strategy its supply chain. Saab strives to include its During the year, Saab adopted a new environsupplier code of conduct in all contracts with a Develop a business-oriented mental strategy with focus on reducing GHG significant commercial impact. In the supplier and performance-driven culture emissions, increasing resource efficiency and code of conduct, which is based on the UN Our employees’ abilities are critical to meeting reducing hazardous substances and their Global Compact’s principles and the Inter­ the business objectives. For every employee emissions. Environmental aspects and national Labour Organization’s core convento have an opportunity to maximise their requirements are reflected in Saab’s entertions, the Company states that it expects potential requires competent leaders. Our prise management system and integrated in ­suppliers to place similar demands on their goal is to develop an even more business-­ every level of the product lifecycle, from develsubcontractors. During the year, Saab hired a oriented and performance-based culture. An opment to disposal. resource to coordinate sustainability work in important part is internationalisation, building Saab’s new environmental strategy sets the supply chain. cooperation and understanding between among other things a new goal to reduce GHG countries. To spread this culture throughout emissions. By 2030 Saab will reduce its emisSaab in South Africa is working to promote diversity among its suppliers by supporting small businesses run by young people, women or other groups that previously faced discrimination. In addition to a financial contribution, Saab provides these firms with mentorships, networking opportunities and expertise in technology and marketing. Since the programme started in 2014, Saab has supported 14 companies. The goal is that they will be able to stand on their own within three years. By helping small ­businesses grow and become profitable, Saab contributes to economic growth and creates jobs in South Africa. 32 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 S trategy – P erforma n ce Savings in one month at JFK airport 2,900 hours 1.3 million kg fuel 4.3 million kg carbon emissions The air traffic control system that Saab costs and cuts carbon emissions. The study by MIT. Saab’s traffic management delivered to JFK Airport in New York figures above are the savings in one systems are installed at 19 of the 20 improves performance, reduces fuel month, according to an independent ­busiest airports in the world. Saab contributes to project to reduce Sweden’s total carbon emissions by five per cent Saab is contributing to CemZero, a pilot study into electrified cement production with the goal of ensuring zero carbon dioxide emissions by 2030. This would reduce Sweden’s total emissions by about five per cent. Cement is manufactured by heating up limestone and sand with fossil fuels. One of the electricity based heating methods included in the pilot study is microwave heating, where Combitech, Saab’s wholly owned technical consulting company, is providing its expertise. “To build an energy-efficient microwave heating system, you not only need systems expertise, but also have to understand the material’s ability to absorb microwave energy, its geometry and the process flow,” says Christoffer Eek, head of Combitech’s microwave heating development unit. The calculations Combitech has done show that while it is possible to use microwave heating in cement manufacturing, it is temperature dependent. Through Combitech, Saab will conduct further studies on microwave heating to contribute to the project. The CemZero project is a collaboration between Cementa and Vattenfall. Saab is one of the main suppliers to Clean Sky, Europe’s largest research programme dedicated to reducing aircraft emissions. Saab has contributed an innovative air­craft wing that reduces wind ­resistance with laminar flow to cut fuel consumption. S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 33 S trateg y – P erforma n ce Case Training & Simulation Focus and priorities generate good margins The business unit Training & Simulation, with nearly 500 employees Another reason for the strong earnings is the growing customer in 11 countries, has delivered a significant earnings improvement in interest in the unit’s services, for both national and multinational recent years. In 2015, the unit reached breakeven, but in 2016 the exercises, not to mention that Training & Simulation is on the numbers turned higher and in 2018 Training & Simulation again ­forefront in terms of technology and functionality. ­delivered good results. “Our solutions are world leading and we are very good at imple­ The improvement is rooted in a clear focus and ability to prioritise, menting training for many different nationalities. The Aurora 2017 mainly through the process of elimination. Training & Simulation military exercise is a good example of this.” today has a clearly defined strategy in terms of both product and market, and well-defined goals for order bookings and deliveries. “We work closely with our customers and are on-site when they con­ The goals are broken down for the 18 locations where the business duct ­exercises. Being there also gives us a better chance of secu­ unit is represented, through each department down to the individual ring additional orders. Training systems tend to be scalable, where a employee’s personal goals. small facility can be expanded into a larger one.” “We work a lot with goals and values, how we work in teams and give “We have invested heavily in research and development to remain feedback. I have been ­fortunate to work with employees who share a the leading supplier of training systems in the land force domain. strong desire to reach the goals we have set,“ says Åsa Thegström, But not so much that we can’t maintain a reasonable level of Vice President Head of Business Unit Training & Simulation since ­profitability. It is always a balancing act between profitability goals 1 January 2016. and growth goals,” says Åsa Thegström. 34 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 S trategy – P erforma n ce Case MBSE Digitisation improves ­systems development Digitisation is part of Saab’s long-term strategy and provides a employees. Being able to test higher abstraction levels early on, ­number of opportunities for efficiencies. One is Model-Based before the product is ready, also means considerably fewer errors. ­Systems Engineering (MBSE), which offers an efficient way to ­develop systems and software, e.g. by producing more complete “MBSE is not only more efficient technique for systems develop­ designs prior to series production and because functions can be ment, but also contributes to smarter, more agile ways of working. simulated before software is implemented. The traditional project process is ­changing, so for example we can get more work done ­simultaneously, resulting in shorter time­ A model-based approach is essential to developing large, complex frames,” says Sam Nicander, Head of Systems Engineering in the systems that have to be integrated within tight timeframes. It is also business area Aeronautics. imperative in order to work effectively with partners. MBSE also facilitates the next step in digitisation with increasing “A model of our design makes it easier to understand the limits automation. By automating development processes, which in turn ­between the different systems and how they are integrated,” says leads to higher quality and a faster route from concept to finished Jonas Palm, head of tactical systems in the business area product, there are more possibilities to profit from development ­Aero­nautics. work. Another benefit is that visualisation makes it easier to communicate between different levels of the organisation and to train new S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 35 S aab ' s s h are Saab’s share Share capital and number of shares Distribution of shareholders, 31 January 2019 Saab implemented a rights issue in the fourth quarter of 2018, after Number % of % of which there are 135,845,847 shares in Saab, comprised of 2,383,903 of shareshareNumber share unlisted Series A shares and 133,461,944 listed Series B shares. Number of shares holders holders of shares capital Series A shares have ten votes each, while Series B shares have one 1–500 43,323 86.3 4,321,193 3.2 vote each. Saab’s share capital amounted to SEK 1,746,405,504 on 31 501–1,000 3,323 6.6 2,434,018 1.8 December 2018, in addition to SEK 427,128,048 in the ongoing rights 1,001–5,000 3,067 6.1 5,886,915 4.3 issue. The quota value per share is SEK 16. The Series B share is listed 5,001–10,000 212 0.4 1,477,313 1.1 on Nasdaq Stockholm’s Large Cap list. All Series A shares are owned 10,001–20,000 111 0.2 1,567,151 1.2 by Investor AB. 20,001–50,000 53 0.1 1,782,577 1.3 The issue proceeds amounted to MSEK 6,006, whereof MSEK 22 50,001– 85 0.2 108,834,899 80,2 relates to issue costs, MSEK 428 to the ongoing rights issue, which will Anonymous shareholders 9,541,781 6,9 subsequently increase the share capital, and the remaining MSEK 5,578 to other capital contributions. Total 50,174 100 135,845,847 100 Because the rights issue was finalised in early 2019, the number Source: Modular Finance of shares, voting rights and ownership structure are shown as of 31 January 2019. Trading volume and statistics Shares and votes, 31 January 2019 A total of 88,022,032 of Saab's Series B shares (60,869,967) were % of Number % of traded on Nasdaq Stockholm in 2018, or about 44.8 per cent of the Share class Number of shares shares of votes1) votes total turnover in Saab’s Series B shares. On other trading platforms, Series A 2,383,903 1.8 23,839,030 15.4 about 43.3 per cent of Saab’s Series B shares were traded on Cboe, Series B 133,461,944 98.2 131,100,764 84.6 7.7 per cent on the London Stock Exchange and about 1.8 per cent on Total 135,845,847 100 154,939,794 100 Turquoise. 1) Number of votes excludes 2,361,180 Series B shares repurchased to secure the Group’s Remaining shares were traded in smaller quantities across a numShare Matching Plan and Performance Share Plan. The repurchased shares are held as ber of different platforms. The share price reached a high of SEK 438.4 ­treasury shares. on 28 September and a low of SEK 294.8 on 26 October in Nasdaq Source: Modular Finance Stockholm trading. Ownership structure Saab had 50,174 shareholders at 31 January 2019, compared to Saab B, Share price performance in the last five years 41,577 at year-end 2017. Swedish investors accounted for 80.2 per SEK Volume cent (74.5) of the capital and 82.6 per cent (78.0) of the votes. 600 600,000 Saab’s largest shareholders, 31 January 2019 500 500,000 Number of % of share % of 400,000 Owner shares capital votes1) 400 Investor AB 40,972,622 30.2 40.3 300,000 300 Knut and Alice Wallenberg Foundation 11,987,609 8.8 7.7 200,000 Swedbank Robur funds 7,652,433 5.6 4.9 200 100,000 Första AP-fonden (AP1) 5,083,223 3.7 3.3 AFA Försäkring 3,899,196 2.9 2.5 100 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Vanguard 2,541,990 1.9 1.6 Saab B SIX General Index Average daily turnover Livförsäkringsbolaget Skandia 2,328,078 1.7 1.5 per month Fidelity Investments (FMR) 2,128,150 1.6 1.4 Source: SIX Nordea funds 1,911,930 1.4 1.2 Norges Bank 1,843,900 1.4 1.2 Saab B, Share price in 2018 Gladiator 1,800,000 1.3 1.2 SEK Volume SEB funds 1,789,857 1.3 1.2 600 900,000 Unionen 1,520,970 1.1 1.0 Eleva Capital LLP 1,281,199 0.9 0.8 500 750,000 Skandia Fonder 1,094,959 0.8 0.7 400 600,000 Subtotal, 15 largest shareholders 87,860,715 64.7 70.5 Other Swedish shareholders 26,532,535 19.5 17.1 300 450,000 Other international shareholders 9,574,235 7.0 6.2 200 300,000 Anonymous shareholders 9,541,781 7.0 6.2 100 150,000 Repurchased shares 2,361,180 1.7 Total 135,845,847 100 100 0 0 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 1) % of votes is calculated based on the number of shares, excluding treasury shares, Saab B SIX General Index Average daily turnover per week at 31 January 2019. Source: Modular Finance Source: SIX 36 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 S aab ' s s h are Saab’s long-term incentive programme Meeting 2018 also resolved to authorise the Board of Directors to decide to repurchase 6,608 Since 2007, Saab offers permanent employees the opportunity to participate in a volunSaab Series B shares up to a maximum of 10 tary Share Matching Plan. Purchases are made per cent of all the shares in the company. through salary deductions of 1–5 per cent of In June 2018, the Board of Directors the employee’s monthly salary, after which decided to use its authorisation to repurchase Series B shares in Saab are purchased on Saab Series B shares. Repurchases of Series of Saab’s employees have enrolled in Saab’s Nasdaq Stockholm during a twelve-month B shares were made in July and August 2018 Share Matching Plan 2019. Some participants period. If the employee retains the purchased for an amount of MSEK 203. are enrolled in several plans. The correspondshares for three years after the investment ing number last year was 5,903, which means an increase of 12 per cent. date and is still employed by the Saab Group, Dividend and dividend policy the employee will be allotted a corresponding Saab’s long-term policy is to pay a dividend number of Series B shares free of charge. corresponding to 20–40 per cent of net Since 2008, senior executives and other key income over a business cycle. For the financial persons have had the opportunity to particiyear 2018 the Board of Directors is proposing pate in a Performance Share Plan. The Annual a dividend of SEK 4.50 per share (5.50), this General Meeting in 2018 resolved to adopt corresponds to an increase of 2.2 per cent Long-Term Incentive plan 2019 (LTI 2019), compared to the previous year, as the number consisting of Share Matching Plan 2019, Perof shares eligible for dividends increased by formance Share Plan 2019 and Special Proj25 per cent after the rights issue. The proects Incentive 2019. In addition to LTI 2019, posed dividend corresponds to 46 per cent the Annual General Meeting resolved to adopt (40) of net income. Special Projects Incentive 2018. For more information on the incentive plan, Five-year summary see the Administration Report on pages For information on data per share, 78–79 and note 9. see www.saabgroup.com. Authorisation Analysts who cover Saab The Annual General Meeting 2018 resolved to For information on analysts who cover Saab, authorise the Board of Directors to decide to see www.saabgroup.com. acquire not more than 1,470,000 Saab Series B shares to secure delivery of shares to participants in Saab’s long-term Share Matching Plan, Performance Share Plan and Special Investor relations Projects Incentive and for subsequent transAnn-Sofi Jönsson, fers through the market to cover certain Head of Investor Relations expenses associated with LTI 2019 and Speann-sofi.jonsson@saabgroup.com cial Projects Incentive 2018, mainly consisting Tel: +46-8-463 02 14 of social security costs. The Annual General Dividend per share Equity per share Earnings per share Yield at year-end after dilution SEK SEK SEK % 6.00 150 15 2.5 5.25 120 12 2.0 4.50 3.75 90 9 1.5 3.00 60 6 1.0 2.25 1.50 30 3 0.5 0.75 0.00 0 0 0.0 14 15 16 17 18 1) 14 15 16 17 18 14 15 16 17 18 14 15 16 17 18 1) See dividend and dividend policy. S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 37 Administration report and financial statements CONTENTS Group – Financial review 2018 39 Business areas 40 Other significant events 46 Risks and uncertainties 48 Sustainability report 52 Corporate governance report 68 Other information 78 Financial statements and notes 80 Dividend motivation 134 Proposed disposition of earnings 2018 135 Auditor's report 136 Information to shareholders 141 Multi-year overview 142 Glossary 143 Saab in the world 144 A dmi n istratio n report Group – Financial review 2018 Financial review 2018 Saab was organised in six business areas in Saab AB (publ.), corporate identity number 2018: Aeronautics, Dynamics, Surveillance, 556036-0793, has its registered address in Support and Services, Industrial Products and Linköping, Sweden. The head office's visiting Services, and Kockums. address is Olof Palmes gata 17, 5tr, 111 22 Stockholm. The telephone number to the Corporate head office of Saab AB is +46 8-463 00 00. In addition to the business areas, Corporate Saab has been listed on Nasdaq Stockcomprises Group staff and departments as holm since 1998 and on the Large Cap list well as other operations outside the core since 2006. The largest shareholder is Invesoperations. tor, with 30.2 per cent of the shares, correCorporate reported operating income of sponding to 40.3 per cent of the votes. The MSEK -640 (-515) in 2018. share of the votes is ­calculated based on the number of shares, excluding treasury shares, Long-term financial goals at year-end. Saab implemented a rights issue The long-term financial goals as of 2011 conin 2018. At year-end, after the issue, there sist of goals for organic sales growth, operatwere a total of 135,671,872 shares in the ing margin (EBIT) and the equity/asset ratio. company, distributed between 2,383,903 Organic sales growth will average 5 per Series A shares with ten votes each and cent per year over a business cycle. In 2018, 133,287,969 Series B shares with one vote organic sales growth was 4 per cent (11). each. The operating margin (EBIT) will average at At year-end, a total of 2,363,299 Series B least 10 per cent per year over a business shares had been repurchased to guarantee cycle. In 2018, the operating margin was 6.8 the Group’s share matching plans. The repurper cent (7.1). The operating margin excluding chased shares are held as treasury shares. non-recurring items was 7.7 per cent (7.1). The equity/assets ratio will exceed 30 per Corporate governance report cent. At year-end 2018, the equity/assets ratio In accordance with the Swedish Annual was 35.0 per cent (31.7). Accounts Act, Saab has prepared a corporate governance report. The corporate goverDividend and dividend policy nance report, found here on pages 68–77, Saab’s long-term policy is to pay a dividend contains the Board of Directors' report on corresponding to 20–40 per cent of net internal control of financial reporting, which income over a business cycle. For the financial includes disclosures on both the Parent year 2018 the Board of Directors is proposing ­Company and the Group. a dividend of SEK 4.50 per share (5.50), this corresponds to an increase of 2.2 per cent Sustainability report compared to the previous year, as the number In accordance with the Annual Accounts Act, of shares eligible for dividends increased by Saab has prepared a sustainability report, 25 per cent after the rights issue. The prowhich can be found in this document on pages posed dividend corresponds to 46 per cent 52–67. (40) of net income. Operations Outlook 2019 As one of the world’s leading high technology Sales growth in 2019 is expected to be in line companies, Saab offers products, solutions with Saab's long-term financial goal: annual and services for military defence and civil organic sales growth of 5 per cent. security. In 2018, the Group had customers The operating margin in 2019, excluding in over 100 countries, while research and material non-recurring items, is expected to ­development is concentrated in Sweden. improve compared to 2018, bringing Saab a The Group's employees work mainly in Europe, further step closer to its financial goal: an South Africa, the U.S. and Australia, and the operating margin of 10 per cent. Group has local offices in more than 30 count­ ries around the world. S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 39 A dmi n istratio n report Business area Aeronautics Aeronautics is the innovative Services and solutions c ­ apabilities in a previous upgrade, which was • Gripen is the world's most flexible and introduced across the Swedish fleet in 2016. supplier of world-class aircraft ­adaptable combat aircraft system. With its In September, the U.S. Air Force selected T-X systems and is engaged in modular design, it can be upgraded and as its future trainer aircraft, which will be adapted to customers' requirements. ­manufactured by Boeing and Saab. In October, research, development and pro• Future manned and unmanned aircraft Saab received an initial order from Boeing duction of military aircraft sys­systems. related to T-X. tems. It also conducts ­studies • Saab and Boeing have jointly developed the next generation trainer aircraft for the U.S. Air Sales, income and margin as preparation for future Force's T-X program. Sales increased in 2018 mainly due to a higher manned and unmanned aircraft activity level within Gripen development and Aeronautics includes the business units production for Brazil. The operating margin systems as well as ­further Gripen E/F, Gripen C/D, Gripen Brazil, improved due to the higher activity level, development of existing prodAdvanced Pilot Training Systems (T-X). and lower R&D expenditures for the T-X ucts. Collaborations with other ­programme ­compared to 2017. Orders world leading entities, both In 2018, Saab received an order from FMV Cash flow large and small, is a ­success ­valued at SEK 1.4 billion to provide operational Cash flow was negative as a result of and development support for Gripen during a increased capital employed and utilisation of factor. period of three years from 2018 to 2020. FMV previous advances. also ordered an upgrade of the Gripen C/D system to improve and modify existing 23% Share of sales 2018 Key figures Order bookings Sales Operating margin MSEK 2018 2017 SEK billion SEK billion % 6 10 10 Order bookings 5,261 3,295 Order backlog 47,359 50,154 5 8 8 Sales 8,056 7,267 EBITDA 736 528 4 6 6 EBITDA margin, % 9.1 7.3 3 Operating income, EBIT 680 478 4 4 Operating margin, % 8.4 6.6 2 Operational cash flow -1,096 1,264 2 2 1 No. of employees (FTE) 3,212 3,073 0 0 0 16 17 18 16 17 18 16 17 18 40 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 A dmi n istratio n report Business area Dynamics Dynamics offers a market-­ Services and solutions the programme Saab signed a contract to • Ground combat weapons, including NLAW, produce and deliver the New Lightweight leading product portfolio AT4, Carl-Gustaf and Bill 2. ­Torpedo, which was the first export order for ­comprising ground combat • Land-based air defence systems, including this new product. An order was received from RBS70, RBS70 NG and BAMSE. the U.S. Army for the ­shoulder-launched weapons, missile systems, • RBS 15 air-to-surface missile and internaAT4CS RS (Confined Space Reduced ­torpedoes, unmanned undertional missile programmes such as Meteor, ­Sensitivity). In 2018, several countries ordered water vehicles, training systems Taurus, IRIS-T and GLSDB. the latest generation of the Carl-Gustaf M4 • Underwater systems, including remotely multi-role weapon, and at year-end a total of and signature management operated and autonomous vehicles as well 10 countries had ordered the system. In the systems for armed forces. as torpedoes and underwater sensors. comparative period 2017, a contract was • Training systems for ground combat based signed with FMV for the development and The product portfolio also on laser and radio as well as virtual training ­production of the next generation anti-ship ­consists of niche products for solutions. missile valued at SEK 3.2 billion. the civil and defence markets • Advanced camouflage systems, including the products Barracuda MCS, ULCAS and Sales, income and margin such as underwater vehicles for SOTACS. Sales and the operating margin decreased the offshore industry. due to fewer deliveries in 2018 compared to Products and solutions have been sold to 2017. A change in the product mix also more than 60 countries around the world. ­contributed to a lower operating margin. Dynamics includes the business units Ground In addition, a non-recurring expense of Combat, Missile Systems, Underwater SysMSEK 6 was recognised for productivity tems, Training and Simulation, and Barracuda. enhancements. Orders Cash flow 15% In 2018, Finland selected Saab as a ­supplier Operational cash flow was negatively affected for the Finnish Navy’s Squadron 2000 Mid-Life by fewer customer deliveries compared to Upgrade programme. Within the framework of 2017. Share of sales 2018 Key figures Order bookings Sales Operating margin MSEK 2018 2017 SEK billion SEK billion % 10 6 15 Order bookings 7,308 8,615 Order backlog 13,645 11,597 5 8 12 Sales 5,319 5,617 EBITDA 610 765 4 6 9 EBITDA margin, % 11.5 13.6 3 Operating income, EBIT 535 680 4 6 Operating margin, % 10.1 12.1 2 Operational cash flow -120 1,105 2 3 No. of employees (FTE) 2,252 2,143 1 0 0 0 16 17 18 16 17 18 16 17 18 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 41 A dmi n istratio n report Business area Surveillance Surveillance provides efficient Services and solutions Orders • The airborne surveillance systems GlobalIn 2018, Surveillance received several solutions for safety and Eye and Saab Erieye AEW&C (Airborne Early medium-sized orders, including from the ­security, for surveillance and Warning & Control) for defence and civil United Arab Emirates for additional functionalsecurity. ity for the GlobalEye Advanced Airborne Early decision support, and for threat • The surface radar family Giraffe, Sea Giraffe Warning & Control solution and from FMV for detection, location, and and Arthur for air and maritime surveillance among other things the Giraffe 4A multi-func­protection. The portfolio covers and weapon locating. tion radar. Within the framework of the Finnish • Combat management systems based on Navy’s Squadron 2000 Mid-Life Upgrade proairborne, ground-based and 9LV for navies as well as air forces and gramme orders were received for the 9LV naval radar, electronic warfare, armies. Combat Management System (CMS), the 9LV • Signals intelligence (SIGINT) systems that Fire Control System (FCS) including the Ceros combat systems and C4I provide real-time situational awareness to 200 fire control director and the Trackfire ­solutions; Command, Control, localise and identify threats, for both tactical Remote Weapon Station (RWS). Communications Computers and strategic applications. • Self-protection systems that warn of threats Sales, income and margin and Intelligence. and protect aircraft, helicopters, vehicles Sales increased in 2018 mainly due to a higher and vessels. activity level for Airborne Surveillance • Nose radar for fighter aircraft, data links and ­Systems. During the year, a non-recurring laser rangefinders. expense of MSEK 42 was recognised for ­productivity improvements, including adjustSurveillance includes the business units ments to part of the operations in Sweden, ­Combat Systems and C41 Solutions, Cyber Norway and Germany. Security, Electronic Warfare Systems and Radar Solutions. The previous business units Cash flow 21% Airborne Surveillance Systems and Surface In 2018, the level of completion was high in Radar Solutions were merged into the new unit large parts of the business, which resulted in a Radar Solutions effective 1 January 2019. negative cash flow. Share of sales 2018 Key figures Order bookings Sales Operating margin MSEK 2018 2017 SEK billion SEK billion % 8 8 12 Order bookings 7,370 7,048 Order backlog 14,731 14,764 Sales 7,397 6,633 6 6 9 EBITDA 904 925 EBITDA margin, % 12.2 13.9 4 4 6 Operating income, EBIT 631 632 Operating margin, % 8.5 9.5 Operational cash flow -1,085 -60 2 2 3 No. of employees (FTE) 3,770 3,601 0 0 0 16 17 18 16 17 18 16 17 18 42 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 A dmi n istratio n report Business area Support and Services Support and Services offers Services and solutions A contract was signed with Vard Group AS to • Customised support solutions in all areas equip the Norwegian Coast Guard’s vessels reliable, cost-efficient service – over the product's entire lifecycle. with Saab’s TactiCall communication system. and support for all of Saab's • Everything from individual spare parts to In the comparative period 2017, Saab availability-based commitments. received two orders in airborne ISR with a markets. This includes support • Technical services, maintenance and repairs. value for Support and Services of approxisolutions, technical main­ • Products and integration for airborne surmately SEK 2 billion. In addition, a contract was tenance and logistics as well as veillance systems, communication systems, signed with FMV for continued support and CBRN (chemical, biological, radiological and maintenance of Gripen C/D with a value for products, solutions and nuclear) defence solutions, military avionics Support and Services of SEK 1.2 billion. ­services for military and civil and field solutions. Sales, income and margin missions. Support and Services includes the business The main reason for the lower sales compared units Aviation Services, Airborne ISR, Gripen to 2017 was that Saab received a major order Support, Communication and Tactical in 2017, which gave rise to higher revenue ­Solutions. ­recognition at the start of the project. During the year, a non-recurring cost of MSEK 50 was Orders recognised for productivity improvements Several orders were received in 2018, includrelated to adjustments to the business area’s ing from FMV for maintenance and technical product portfolio. system support for flight safety equipment. FMV also extended Saab’s support and maintenance contract for Helicopter 15 in Sweden. 16 % Share of sales 2018 Key figures Order bookings Sales Operating margin MSEK 2018 2017 SEK billion SEK billion % 8 6 14 Order bookings 3,635 6,199 Order backlog 10,690 12,513 5 12 Sales 5,470 5,818 6 10 EBITDA 754 721 4 EBITDA margin, % 13.8 12.4 8 4 3 Operating income, EBIT 685 702 6 Operating margin, % 12.5 12.1 2 4 Operational cash flow 369 126 2 No. of employees (FTE) 1,851 1,865 1 2 0 0 0 16 17 18 16 17 18 16 17 18 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 43 A dmi n istratio n report Business area Industrial Products and Services The business units within Services and solutions Order bookings • Technical consulting services to customers During the year, the business unit Traffic ­Industrial Products and in industry, defence and the public sector ­Management received an order from FMV for ­Services, which are mainly through the independent subsidiary Combiintegrated traffic management and airport tech. The company offers a broad range of systems at all Swedish Air Force airports and focused on civilian customers, services, with cutting-edge expertise in air bases around the country. In 2018, order include Aerostructures, cybersecurity and digitisation. bookings were lower than in 2017 mainly ­Avionics, Traffic Management • Leading technology for traffic management because the business unit Traffic Manageand public safety. ment received several large orders in 2017. and the consulting business • Production of parts for the aviation industry, Combitech. such as wings, flaps and doors for commerSales, income and margin cial aircraft manufacturers such as Boeing Sales within several business units increased and Airbus. in 2018 and the operating margin rose due to • Safety critical systems and components improved project execution mainly in the such as computers, display systems and ­business unit Traffic Management. actuators for demanding environments for aircraft and helicopters. Cash flow Operational cash flow was negative due to The business area Industrial Products and currency transactions related to projects in Services includes the business units the business unit Aerostructures. ­Aerostructures, Avionics Systems, Traffic Management and the ­independent consulting firm Combitech. 14 % Share of sales 2018 Key figures Order bookings Sales Operating margin MSEK 2018 2017 SEK billion SEK billion % 6 7 8 Order bookings 5,344 5,842 Order backlog 11,004 11,697 5 6 Sales 6,107 5,635 6 5 EBITDA 290 213 4 EBITDA margin, % 4.7 3.8 4 3 4 Operating income, EBIT 202 116 3 Operating margin, % 3.3 2.1 2 2 Operational cash flow -351 -296 2 1 No. of employees (FTE) 3,566 3,488 1 0 0 0 16 17 18 16 17 18 16 17 18 44 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 A dmi n istratio n report Business area Kockums Kockums is a world leader in its Services and solutions Through investments in methodological • Design, construction and in-service support improvements, industrial robots and digitisasegment in the development, for submarines and surface vessels. tion, Saab Kockums today ranks as one of the production and in-service • Design, construction and in-service support world’s most modern shipyards for production for mine countermeasures vessels and and ­in-service support of submarines. Kock­support of submarines, surface autonomous underwater vehicles. ums includes the business units Submarines vessels and naval systems. and Surface Ships. The product portfolio includes The business area's unique expertise is in signature management and stealth technology, Order bookings submarines with air-indepenmaterial optimisation and shock resistance, as In 2018, for example, Saab signed a contract dent propulsion, warships with well as in systems integration. Kockums' with ASC to update the Integrated Ship ­products are designed for availability, simpli­Control Management and Monitoring System stealth technology and fied maintenance and a long operating life. ­(ISCMMS) for four of the Royal Australian minesweeping systems. One example is the Västergötland-class subNavy’s Collins Class submarines. ­Kockums also supplies sub­ marine, which after 30 years is operational in both Sweden and Singapore. Air-independent Sales, income and margin systems and components for propulsion with the Stirling system, carbon Sales increased in 2018 due to high activity integration in naval solutions for fibre composite designs and minesweeping in surface combatants and the acquisitions systems are solutions where Kockums is the of N. Sundin Dockstavarvet AB and the repair customers in and outside leader and where its products are in use in a shipyard Muskövarvet AB on 29 December ­Sweden. number of countries. Kockums' production 2017. facility in Karlskrona has undergone major modernisation since Saab's acquisition. 10 % Share of sales 2018 Key figures Order bookings Sales Operating margin MSEK 2018 2017 SEK billion SEK billion % 4 4 8 Order bookings 1,123 2,129 Order backlog 6,646 8,815 Sales 3,291 2,712 3 3 6 EBITDA 203 180 EBITDA margin, % 6.2 6.6 2 2 4 Operating income, EBIT 173 157 Operating margin, % 5.3 5.8 Operational cash flow 251 206 1 1 2 No. of employees (FTE) 1,205 1,115 0 0 0 16 17 18 16 17 18 16 17 18 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 45 A dmi n istratio n report Other significant events Other significant events during financing. More information on the offer Significant events after the conclusion the period January–December 2018 can be found at www.saabgroup.com, of the period • In January, Saab inaugurated a new deveinvestor, debt and funding. • On 3 January, Saab completed a successlopment centre, STC (Saab Technology • On 27 September, the U.S. Air Force ful first flight with the second GlobalEye Centre), in Tampere, Finland. In the initial announced Boeing as the prime contractor Airborne Early Warning & Control (AEW&C) stage, Saab established a unit at STC with a for a new advanced pilot training system. aircraft. focus on Electronic Warfare (EW). Saab is a risk-sharing partner with Boeing • Supported by the Swedish state, Saab • Saab announced in March that Ann-Kristin in the development of the T-X aircraft, submitted a proposal for the Swiss New Adolfsson, Chief Strategy Officer, had which is part of the system. On 18 October, Fighter Aircraft procurement to armasubeen appointed Head of Saab Ventures. Saab received an order from Boeing for the isse, the Swiss defence procurement Due to her new role, Ann-Kristin Adolfsson Engineering and Manufacturing Developagency. Saab is offering Gripen E and a left Group Management. ment (EMD) phase for the Advanced Pilot comprehensive industrial participation • On March 14, Saab successfully compleTraining Aircraft, T-X. The value of this programme for Swiss industry corresponted the first flight of the new GlobalEye. order is approximately MUSD 117.6. The ding to 100 percent of the contract value. GlobalEye combines air, maritime and order will run until 2022. • Saab signed a contract in January with the ground surveillance in one swing-role • On 23 October, Saab announced plans to UK Ministry of Defence for support and ­solution. The system provides users with raise approximately SEK 6 billion through a services related to the land-based Giraffe extended radar range with the Erieye ER rights issue to support the company’s AMB radar systems. This multi-function radar and better range with the Global ­continued growth. In December, the final radar has been in operation in the UK since 6000 jet platform, combined with the abioutcome of the rights issue showed that 2007. lity to perform multiple roles using a single shares corresponding to 99.3 per cent of • Supported by the Swedish state, Saab solution, including search and rescue, borthe offered shares were subscribed for by submitted a proposal for the Finnish HX der surveillance and military operations. exercise of subscription rights. Together fighter procurement to the Finnish defence • The Annual General Meeting on 10 April with applications for subscription without procurement agency, the Logistics Com2018 resolved to pay shareholders a subscription rights, this corresponded to mand of the Finnish Defence Forces. The ­dividend of SEK 5.50 per share (total approximately 190.4 per cent of the shares proposal comprises 64 Gripen aircraft, MSEK 588). The record date was 12 April offered. Through the rights issue, Saab both single-seat Gripen E and dual-seat 2018 and the dividend was paid out on 17 received proceeds of approximately Gripen F, and is the formal response to the April 2018. MSEK 6,006 before issue costs. customer’s Request for Quotation (RFQ) • The Annual General Meeting resolved to • Christian Hedelin was appointed Chief issued in April 2018. re-elect Håkan Buskhe, Sten Jakobsson, Strategy Officer on 1 November 2018 and • The last shares in connection with Saab’s Danica Kragic Jensfelt, Sara Mazur, Daniel became a member of Saab’s Group Manarights issue were registered on 31 January, Nodhäll, Bert Nordberg, Cecilia Stegö gement. finalising the issue. Chilò, Erika Söderberg Johnson, and • On 26 November, Saab announced that ­Joakim Westh and to re-elect Marcus Gripen E had successfully completed the ­Wallenberg as Chairman of the Board. first separation tests to verify the aircraft’s • In May, Saab unveiled a manufacturing ability to release and launch external pay­facility for Gripen aerostructures: Saab loads. The tests took place in October Aeronáutica Montagens (SAM), in the city 2018 at the Vidsel Test Range in north of of São Bernardo do Campo, in São Paulo Sweden. In October, Saab also successstate, Brazil. fully completed a test flight of a Gripen E • In September, Saab announced the final aircraft with the Meteor Beyond Visual results of its tender offer to the holders of Range Air-to-Air Missile (BVRAAM) for the certain outstanding publicly listed medium first time. term notes, at the same time that the ­company announced the terms of the new 46 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 A dmi n istratio n report On 14 March 2018, Saab completed a successful first flight with the new GlobalEye Airborne Early Warning & Control (AEW&C) aircraft in Linköping, Sweden. A dmi n istratio n report Risks and uncertainties All businesses entail risk. Risks that are manMost of the operating risks that are identified aged well can lead to opportunities and add are managed at a local level. Among these Risk categories value, while risks that are not managed proprisks, Saab identifies a number through the In the ERM process Saab’s risks are erly can cause damages and losses. Saab ERM process that individually or in combina­classified into five categories. takes a structured and proactive approach to tion can have a large impact at the business • Strategic risks managing risks. area level. These risks are weighed against the • Market and political risks Saab develops, manufactures and supplies company’s risk tolerance, and decisions are • Operational risks technologically advanced systems and prodmade on the appropriate ­measures to avoid, • Financial risks ucts to military and civil customers around the reduce, spread or accept risks. A number of • Compliance risks world. Operations largely consist of major these risks can potentially also affect the projects carried out over long periods of time, entire Group. usually several years, in close cooperation ERM work is part of the strategic work and Risks are also managed through the Saab with customers, suppliers, partners and involves the managements of the business Group’s global insurance programme, which ­institutions. and market areas as well as Group Managecontains all the usual business insurance, Saab is affected by geopolitical factors and ment and Group functions. including product liability and injury prevention industry and business related events that can The ERM function works actively with policies, the main purpose of which is to give rise to uncertainties and risks. The ability ­overarching risk management. The most ­prevent property damage and business disto identify, evaluate and manage risks is therepressing risks and uncertainties and how they ruptions. Insurance is procured in the Swedish fore essential to strategy implementation and are managed are regularly reported to Group and international markets. In addition, Saab’s in governance and control. The aim, by underManagement, the Audit Committee and the internal audit unit is responsible for indepenstanding risks and their impact, is to better Board of Directors. dently reviewing the effectiveness of a sample support decision-making and meet Saab’s of internal control processes each year. long-term goals through balanced risk-taking within an established framework. Risk management Within Saab, each business area, market area Risk mapping Impact and Group function is responsible within its Risks that are identified are respective organisation for identifying and mapped in a matrix. The risks are measured based on the managing risks in accordance with the Group's potential impact on Saab, the risk process and current policies, guidelines probability they will occur and and instructions. how well they are managed. This gives Saab a tool to When combined with Enterprise Risk ­measure risk exposure and ­Management (ERM), which focuses on the set priorities as needed. overarching risks and uncertainties the Group Among these risks, a number is exposed to, we get both a top-down and that individually or in combina­ bottom-up view to support Saab’s strategy tion can have a major impact and long-term goals. on the Group are defined each year. The purpose of ERM is to provide a Group ­overview of the risks and uncertainties Saab is exposed to and to support value creation, ensure risk awareness and balance risk versus return. Probability Enterprise Risk Management Long-term Identifying Risk Risk Control targets risk assessment management activities 48 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 A dmi n istratio n report Risk Description Management STRATEGIC The strategy to grow globally by strengthening its presence in key Strategic risks are managed through strategies and plans established RISKS markets, developing innovative solutions and acquiring compaby the Board of Directors, Group Management and the managements nies in priority areas exposes Saab to various risks that can affect of the business and market areas. its ability to create value. Development and Saab’s success is dependent on its ability to develop and • Investments in new products are made after analysis and assessintroduction of new manufacture innovative products and launch them on the ment of future business opportunities. high-tech systems ­m arket at the right time and at competitive prices. Due to long • To reduce the development risk inherent in major systems multinaand products development cycles, market changes can mean that demand tional partnerships are imperative and for internally developed prohas changed when products are ready to be brought to market. ducts, such as for example radar, command and control, and elecThe risk is that the products do not generate the previously tronic warfare systems as well as tactical weapons it is important to expected return. early identify a launch customer. • Saab expects Sweden to account for the largest share of its Historically, a large share of Saab’s product renewal has been development expenditures in the fighter aircraft, missile and achieved collaboratively with the Swedish Armed Forces and underwater areas. FMV and together with other nations. • Develop certain technology in partnership with other companies, There is also a risk that competitors develop new products or e.g. the T-X trainer aircraft together with Boeing. disruptive technologies that can make Saab’s products appear • Using modular design, new models can be developed continuously, obsolete. cost efficiently and faster. • Saab’s is active e.g. in autonomous vehicles, AI and Big Data. International Acquisitions and collaborations are an integral part of Saab’s • Joint ventures with other companies. expansion and international growth strategy to further strengthen its • Research collaborations with universities. ­collaborations ­presence in selected key markets. • Thorough analysis in connection with acquisitions and expansion. Attract and retain Saab’s future competitiveness depends on its ability to globally • Apply a structured process to develop employees and identify key employees attract and retain employees and leaders with the right skills in talents. e.g. multiple technologies, production, IT security, business • Work long-term to position Saab as an attractive employer development and project management. Saab is also depenamong students and young professionals. dent on the professional development of its employees. • Offer PhD services, trainee programmes, master’s thesis A detailed description of Saab’s sustainability work and key ­opportunities and summer jobs. performance indicators for employees can be found on pages • Promote education and an interest in technology among younger 60-61. students to broaden the future recruiting base. Information Saab manages information that is vital to its customers and in • Continuous and systematic information and IT security work. ­management and many cases to their national security. The information security • Clearly defined rules, processes, routines and technical solutions cyber-related risks risk for Saab is that information will fall into the wrong hands if for information, IT and communication security. handled incorrectly or in the event of an IT breach or manipula• All employees receive training in information management and tion of communication channels. security. • Different levels of physical and digital security classifications to Cyberthreats are a category of risk that has increased for reduce the risk of information leaks. Saab’s products, which contain a large amount of software and • Established the business unit Cyber Security, which works with defence secrets, since it has become more common for these solutions to increase cybersecurity in Saab’s products. products to be linked to civil networks. Risk Description Management MARKET AND About 85 per cent of Saab’s sales consists of defence materiel, Saab works proactively to manage market and political risks and POLITICAL which is regulated by national laws and regulations as well as interuncertainties, including through strategic impact assessments and national conventions, and more than half of total sales are inter­ alternative strategies. It is impossible, however, to completely avoid RISKS national. Saab is therefore dependent on stable political and multilosing business opportunities or incurring damage if political or other national relationships around the world and national priorities. market risks are realised. Geopolitical and Demand for the defence materiel is dependent on states • Market intelligence. macroeconomic having a political mandate and willingness, as well as govern• Dialog with authorities and the political establishment. risks and ment budget possibility. The defence industry is therefore • Proactive measures to assess and manage risks and ­uncertainties affected by a number of macroeconomic factors, e.g. global eco­opportunities. nomic growth, trade barriers and changes in exchange rates. It is • Major investments are mainly in a small number of focus also exposed to risks related to geopolitical concerns. countries. • International partnerships. A large share of Saab’s order backlog consists of contracts with • Terms and conditions. an order value over SEK 1 billion which will be delivered over • Export guarantees, insurance solutions and other instruments. many years. Consequently, the impact on Saab could be significant if a major contract is broken or amended and renegotiated if the customer is adversely affected by market factors. S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 49 A dmi n istratio n report Risk Description Management Regulatory The large share of Saab’s exports is from Sweden, where the • Continuously monitor laws, regulations and ordinances to ­changes Swedish Inspectorate of Strategic Products (ISP) determines adapt the business as needed. which defence products Saab may manufacture, market, sell • Dialogue with authorities in the political establishment. and export, and to which countries. Since 2018, the democratic • Terms and conditions. status of the recipient country is also taken into account by the • Central and local export control functions. ISP when granting licenses. Saab may also be dependent on export control laws in other countries where it has operations or suppliers. Some of Saab’s civil products are governed by export controls on dual-use products. The risk for Saab arises from changes to laws, regulations and permits. Risk Description Management OPERATIONAL Operational risks can affect Saab’s ability to deliver on its comOperational risks are managed in tactical and operational deciRISKS mitments and are important to day-to-day operations. Operasions as well as at an operating level throughout the organisation. tional risks include risks relating to order bookings, contract ­Information about Saab’s work with product liability and with envimanagement, project implementation, suppliers, product liabironmental and occupational health and safety risks can be found in lity, the environment, and occupational health and safety. the sustainability report on pages 52-67. Risks related to Saab’s operations involve complex, long-term development • Before contract is signed, a thorough analysis is made of the implementation projects on the leading edge of technology that in some cases terms and risks. of long-term also include industrial cooperations with the customer’s • An established quality assurance process – the Win Business ­customer projects ­country. When a contract is signed, the product may not be fully process – includes a comprehensive analysis of risks and what is developed in some instances. Contracts also often include a required to manage them. fixed-price component, which can entail a risk of incorrect • During project implementation – the Execute Business process­pricing if the costs cannot be adequately estimated. various types of reviews with clear toll-gates are conducted continuously to identify and assess these risks and the measures The risk in long-term customer projects is therefore that Saab taken to mitigate them. does not succeed in delivering cost-efficient high-tech • Effective management of both delivery projects and industrial ­solutions as per the terms of the contract or in implementing ­cooperations. the required industrial cooperation. Consequently, the com• High demands are placed on project planning and control as well mitment may not be fulfilled and the costs may run significantly as monitoring to ensure at any given time that assumptions and higher with a negative impact on financial position and cash assessments provide a satisfactory basis for reporting revenue flow. and results. The Group applies the percentage of completion method to • Saab’s largest projects are also regularly monitored by Group recognise revenue from the majority of long-term customer Management and reported to the Board of Directors. projects. An estimation of total costs, including assessments • Other projects with high impact are regularly monitored by each of technical and commercial risks, is critical to revenue recogbusiness area management and reported to Group ­M anagement. nition and provisions for project losses as well as inventory valuations. Revised estimates of total project costs have a retroactive impact on results. Dependence on A large share of Saab’s revenue comes from a limited number • Work to optimise the product portfolio. new contracts of customers and relatively few contracts. Saab is therefore • Focus e.g. on quality, innovation, security, development times, and increased dependent on winning new contracts in a market with limited delivery precision and price. ­competition access, since there are only a certain number of governments • Reference customers. and defence contractors to sell to. • Presence in selected markets with own operations, sales offices and personnel. Competition in the military market as well as the commercial • Participation in international collaborations. aircraft and security market is fierce. US and European ­companies are especially strong players, with competition also increasing from companies in other parts of the world. Many competitors are also strong in their home markets. Supply chain risks Saab is dependent on deliveries from subcontractors of e.g. • Select, evaluate and document suppliers and business partners subsystems, components and equipment. For certain sub­ based on objective factors such as quality, delivery, price and systems, Saab is dependent on deliveries from one or a few ­reliability. suppliers. • Close cooperations with suppliers for high quality. • Systematic measures to ensure that suppliers take ethical, social and environmental responsibility and work proactively to prevent damages. • Saab’s supplier Code of Conduct. 50 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 A dmi n istratio n report Risk Description Management FINANCIAL Financial risks can affect the ability to protect Saab’s financial Financial risks are governed by the Group’s financial policy, which is RISKS position. The risk consists of potentially negative effects on adopted by Saab’s Board of Directors, as well as detailed directives Saab’s financial assets and liabilities as well as contractual and processes. Management of these risks is centralised in Group ­commitments. For more information, see note 36. Treasury and largely involves the use of financial instruments. The goal is to actively manage financial risks in order to reduce any negative impacts on the Group’s results, competitive strength and financial flexibility. Interest rate risk The risk that Saab’s net financial items will be negatively • Interest rate futures and swaps to achieve the desired interest ­affected by changes in interest rate levels. Saab is exposed rate duration. when the market value of certain items in the statement of • Interest rate and foreign currency risk from foreign currency funfinancial position is affected by changes in underlying interest ding is managed with currency swaps (internal) or cross currency rates. The item with the largest exposure is pension obligabasis swaps (external). tions. Saab has both interest-bearing assets and liabilities. Currency risk The risk that unfavourable exchange rates will negatively affect • Currency exposure in the order backlog (transaction exposure) is results or equity, e.g. when revenue and expenses are in currenhedged through netting and with currency derivatives (mainly cies other than the functional currency (transaction exposure), ­forward exchange contracts), which means that changes in when translating foreign subsidiaries to SEK (translation expoexchange rates do not affect the order backlog’s future results. sure) and when submitting fixed-price tenders in foreign • Foreign currency risk due to translation exposure is not hed­currency. ged. • Fixed-price tenders in foreign currency are managed in a tender portfolio Refinancing risk The risk that Saab cannot replace maturing loans with either • Debt is managed by Group Treasury and loans are primarily raised new loans or its own funds, or that it becomes significantly by the Parent Company to ensure efficiency and risk control. more expensive. For more information, see note 30. • A diversified loan maturity structure. • Capital is tied up in the loan portfolio for an average of 24-60 Financial debt mainly consists of various types of credit months. ­f acilities and a Medium Term Note programme. Counterparty Saab is exposed in its day-to-day operations to credit risks, • Accounts receivable are hedged to a limited extent through risk mainly in transactions with customers and financial institu­letters of credit and in certain specific contracts through export tions. credit institutions. • All financial counterparties must have a long-term credit rating of Credit risk in accounts receivable is considered low, since the no lower than A– from Standard and Poor’s or A3 from Moody’s. receivables are primarily from governments and public • ISDA master agreements with financial counterparties. ­a uthorities. Financial credit risk consists of exposure to financial institutions through e.g. deposits, investments and outstanding ­derivatives. Pension Post-employment benefits refer to defined-contribution and • For its defined-contribution pensions Saab pays fees to a ­obligations defined-benefit pensions. ­separate legal entity that assumes the obligations. • Defined-benefit pension obligations remain in the Group and Saab has an extensive defined-benefit obligation, where the are secured through Saab's pension foundation or insurance. risks consist e.g. of changes that affect the capital market and • Obligations are compared annually to the plan’s assets, and in the discount rate as well as actuarial assumptions such as expecevent of a deficit Saab is reporting this as a debt in the statement ted lifespan and inflation. See more information in note 32. of financial position Risk Description Management COMPLIANCE In our business we are obligated to follow laws and regulations Compliance issues are integrated in the business strategy and RISKS and make conscious decisions about the global standards we affect Saab’s strategic priorities. This work is guided by Saab’s will live up to. Code of Conduct, which is adopted by the Board of Directors. Saab does business around the world and has relationships • Training in Saab’s Code of Conduct. with customers and other stakeholders on every continent. • Strict scrutiny of marketing consultants and business partners. Ethical values, transparent relationships and compliance are • Whistleblower system. of vital importance to Saab. The confidence of the public and • Supplier Code of Conduct. the political system, together with employee pride, is critical to • Information and IT security strategy and security classification. Saab’s long-term profitability and survival. • Internal training on information management for all employees. • Systematic environmental work to reduce impacts. Learn more about Saab’s sustainability work and key perfor• Global occupational health and safety policy. mance indicators on pages 52-67. • Participation in the UN’s Global Compact. • ISO 9001 and 14001 certified. • Saab’s internal ethics and compliance function. • Internal Control and Internal Audit. S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 51 A dmi n istratio n report Sustainability report Saab was founded 80 years ago at a ­turbulent time in the world when Sweden had to better protect its borders. Since then, Saab has developed into an international partner that contributes to increased security and defence ­capabilities in Sweden and other countries. This is the foundation of our ­sustainability commitment. A dmi n istratio n report Security and defence capabilities for customers around the world Saab’s mission is to make people safe by Industrial cooperations are an important Economic value generated 7.6 pushing intellectual and technological bounelement in Saab’s international growth. daries. Saab serves governments, public When Saab signs large defence contracts, authorities and companies around the world they usually contain more than just a product with solutions for military defence, aerosale. Many countries also want technology space and civil security. We continuously and skills transfers as well as various forms SEK billion develop, adapt and improve new technology of industrial cooperation. By customising Research and development 10.8 to meet changing customer needs and offerings, Saab has contributed together ­create value in line with our vision to keep with its partners to several successful prosociety and people safe. jects that affect the country's economy in a Geopolitical tensions and changing positive direction. For Saab, there are benethreat scenarios, coupled with rapid technofits to spreading knowledge through technoSEK billion logical development, have led to increased logy transfers. People from different compaEmployee salaries 3.2 demand for security and defence capabilinies and organisations meet and come up ties. To stay a step ahead and meet custowith new business ideas that create value for mers’ needs in an optimal way, Saab has all the parties involved. ­prioritised three areas: market, performance Saab’s strategic direction, which includes and innovation. In practice this means staythe sustainability priorities, creates a stable ing close to customers and working more foundation for profitable growth, which is SEK billion effectively with innovation as a guiding prinalso a prerequisite for creating long-term Taxes paid to society 588 ciple in all our businesses. At the same time, value for shareholders, customers, employsustainability affects everything Saab does, ees and the communities Saab serves. and engaged employees are the key to our continued growth. Saab’s broad product portfolio is divided SEK million into five core areas: aeronautics, advanced Dividend to shareholders 16.5 weapons systems, command and control systems, sensors, and underwater systems, with training and support in each area. SEK billion Saab’s sales come from: Supplier costs • Long-term customer contracts in the form of the development and manufacture 17,096 of complex systems • Service assignments in the form of consulting and support services, e.g. training and ­ongoing maintenance tied to previous deliveries • Sale of products and spare parts that Saab manufactures and stocks, or purchases, on behalf of the customer Number of employees About Saab’s sustainability report Saab’s sustainability report contains description of Saab’s business model is (GRI) and the UN Global Compact. The GRI information on the company’s developprovided as well. The sustainability report Index with cross references to the UN ment and impact in the areas of anti-­ is prepared in accordance with the Annual Global Compact can be found at corruption, the environment, employees, Accounts Act and comprises all of the www.saabgroup.com/responsibility. human rights and society. The report group's operations for the financial year Since 2006, Saab reports GHG emissions ­describes work practices, goals, results, 2018, unless indicated otherwise. Saab to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). performance indicators and material also reports sustainability data in accorFor more information on CDP and Saab’s ­sustainability risks for each area. A brief dance with the ­G lobal Reporting Initiative complete report, see www.cdp.net S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 53 A dmi n istratio n report Priority sustainability issues To create security and defence capabilities responsibility as an employer, what we do to market, innovation and performance. in a responsible and sustainable way, Saab minimise the risk of causing or contributing Saab has also prioritised five of the UN’s has prioritised a number of sustainability to human rights violations, and our role in ­sustainable development goals that are tied issues. The issues cover how we fight society. The issues are integrated in the to Saab’s business strategy. ­corruption, how we take responsibility for business strategy and business plan and reducing our impact on the environment, our contribute to Saab’s strategic priorities: Anti-corruption Priority Long-term goal Results 2018 Connection to strategic Connection to the UN’s sustainability issue priority Global Goals1 Zero tolerance for Saab’s anti-corruption See pages 56–57 Market Target 16.5: Reduce ­corruption ­programme will be among the ­corruption and bribery. best in the industry. All employees will understand the importance of and promote openness and integrity. Environment Priority Long-term goal Results 2018 Connection to strategic Connection to the UN’s sustainability issue priority Global Goals1 Reduce climate impact Reduce Saab’s GHG ­e missions 3.3% decrease Performance Goal 13: Climate action. by 33% by 2030 (related to 2017). Phase out hazardous Hexavalent chromium will not be Measured as of 2019 Performance ­substances used in new designs after 2025. Resource efficiency Reduce the number of ­chemical Measured as of 2019 Performance products in the areas of adhesives and paints by 20% by 2025 (related to 2018). Employees Priority Long-term goal Results 2018 Connection to strategic Connection to the UN’s sustainability issue priority Global Goals1 Health and safety 10 reported incidents 5 reported incidents per Performance per workplace injury (a higher workplace injury. propensity to report incidents reduces the risk of workplace injuries). Gender equality and At least 25% of employees and 23.5% of employees and Innovation Goal 5: Gender equality. ­d iversity 30% of managers will be women 25.1% of managers were by 2025. women. Personal development 100% of employees will meet The goal was not measured Performance annually with their manager to globally in 2018 since Saab discuss goals, personal deveis replacing its HR system. lopment and performance. Human rights Priority Long-term goal Results 2018 Connection to strategic Connection to the UN’s sustainability issue priority Global Goals1 Export compliance Saab will continuously develop See page 62 Market Target 16.4: Reduce rules and processes to remain a ­illicit arms flows. leader in export control. Responsible supplier Saab will continue to collaborate See page 63 Performance ­relationships with suppliers on social and environmental responsibility. 54 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 A dmi n istratio n report Society Priority Long-term goal Results 2018 Connection to strategic Connection to the UN’s sustainability issue priority Global Goals1 Information security Have information and IT See page 64 Performance security that is fully integrated with business and technological development. Product safety The safety level in Saab’s See page 65 Performance systems and products will meet relevant laws, regulations, international standards and best practices. Innovation and spreading Saab will annually have at 54 PhD candidates Innovation Target 9.5: Encourage innoknowledge least 20 PhD candidates. vation and substantially increase the number of research and development workers. Promote education and an Increase partnerships with See page 64 Innovation Target 4.4: Increase the interest in technology primary and secondary number of youth and adults schools in communities who have relevant skills, where Saab is active. including technical and vocational skills, for employment. 1) Saab contributes to several of the UN’s global goals. Shown here are only the connections to the five goals Saab has prioritised. Goal 4. Quality education Saab focuses in particular on Goal 4.4, to increase the number of youth and adults with relevant skills, including technical and vocational skills, for employment. Saab contributes to the goal through its commitment to promote education and an interest in technology. Goal 5. Gender equality Saab focuses in particular on Goal 5.5 to ensure women’s full and effective participation and equal opportunities for leadership at all levels of decision-making. Saab contributes to the goal by working Based on its priority sustain­ actively to increase the number of female leaders at Saab. ability issues and opportunities to make a difference, Saab has Goal 9. Industry, innovation and infrastructure chosen to focus on five of the Saab focuses in particular on Goal 9.5 to encourage innovation and UN’s sustainable development substantially increase the number of research and development goals. They are connected to the ­workers. Saab contributes to the goal through university partnerships, strategic priorities indicated in industrial and innovation collaborations, and technology transfers. Saab’s sustainability strategy above. Goal 13. Climate action Saab contributes to the goal by developing sustainable innovations and systematically reducing carbon emissions from its own ­operations. Goal 16. Peace, justice and strong institutions Saab focuses in particular on target 16.4 to fight illicit arms of flows and target 16.5 to fight corruption and bribery. Saab contributes by complying with export controls that apply to its products and working systematically to prevent corruption. Saab is also of the opinion that democracy and social welfare cannot be achieved without security, which Saab’s products contribute to. S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 55 A dmi n istratio n report Anti-corruption Corruption has negative consequences Whistleblowing system for society and business and is something Employees who become aware of or susPrimary risks: – Non-compliance can have a negative Saab will never accept. pect non-compliance with laws or Saab’s impact on social development in the Code of Conduct are expected to report it countries where Saab is active and result We are guided by our fundamental values, through Saab’s whistleblowing system, in loss of confidence in Saab and the values the company stands for the Code of Conduct, laws, industry codes which complements traditional line of conduct and clearly defined internal proreporting. The system is administered by an cesses to prevent corruption risks. Prior to external party and provides the option to each deal, Saab requires a corruption risk report anonymously online and by phone. Primary policy documents: assessment. If the identified risks ­c annot be For management and organisation of – Code of Conduct minimised and managed satis­factorily, Saab Saab’s anti-corruption work, see page 66. – Supplier Code of Conduct – Managing Business Partners will withdraw from the deal. – Gifts and hospitality Examples of activities in 2018 – Sponsorships and social engagement Scrutiny of business partners • Implemented process for corruption risk Hiring external parties in the selling process assessment of specially identified collab­ is sometimes important, to better orations and transactions (tenders, joint understand how a market works, but can ­ventures, real estate, offsets and targeted also include increased exposure to corrupprocurement) and provided training for all tion risks. Saab therefore applies a strict the business areas on the new process. process in which cooperations with marke• Launched Ethics and Compliance Portal on ting consultants are managed by a central Saab’s intranet. function that evaluates the consultant, sets • Conducted local policy audits in the U.S., compensation and negotiates the contract. South Africa, the UK and Germany. Saab’s marketing consultants also have to • Expanded the corruption risk section in undergo special training and pledge to abide Saab’s risk management process. by Saab’s ethical values and guidelines. In 2018, Saab also estab­lished a process for Planned activities in 2019 other business relationships associated • Introduce annual certification of Code of with a high corruption risk, e.g. industrial Conduct and complementary rules for the cooperations and joint ­ventures. Group’s senior executives. Saab’s internal auditors conduct reviews • Conduct local policy audits in at least four each year of a number of randomly selected countries. contractual relations to verify compliance • Introduce updated rules on gifts and hospiwith the process and ensure that the countality. terparty is acting in line with Saab’s values • Conduct a reassessment of Saab’s and contractual terms. ­anti-corruption training programme. • Improve Saab’s external website on the Training anti-corruption programme. In addition to training on the Code of ­Conduct, Saab also has separate, webbased anti-corruption training. Employees in positions in risk areas, such as marketing 2006 2009 and sales, industrial cooperations and proProcess introduced to recruit and Introduction of manage marketing consultants whistleblowing system ject management, also receive in-depth classroom training covering among other things general risk awareness, internal processes and the company’s corruption risk management. Every three years the Board of ­Directors receives more extensive anti-­ corruption training. 2008 2010 Consolidated Establishment of a central Code of Conduct function to manage recruitment process for marketing consultants Formation of Ethics and Compliance Board 56 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 A dmi n istratio n report Performance indicators 2017 2018 Goal Number of extended anti­ 112 116 corruption training sessions held since 2011 Number of marketing 5 5 5 ­consultant audits 2011 2013 2015 2017 Instruction for corruption Customised web-based Supplier Code of Conduct External reconciliation risk management anti-corruption introduced of remuneration model established training launched for marketing consultants Update of Guidelines for whistleblower Code of Conduct investigations introduced 2012 2014 2016 2018 Chief Compliance Officer External whistleblowing Update of Internal ethics and Compliance appointed system placed Code of Conduct portal created in service Reporting structure Corruption risk for Audit Committee Audit programme management process for established for marketing consultants business partners established started S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 57 A dmi n istratio n report Environment Active environmental work leads to more p ­ erformance requirements in the aviation efficient resource consumption and a lower and defence fields. Primary risks: –T hat Saab fails to reduce GHG emissions risk of being faced with costly environ­ – T hat Saab fails to develop acceptable mental laws at the same time that it creates Resource efficiency alternatives to existing hazardous confidence in the company. Saab’s products are usually designed for ­substances – E xtreme weather events that can affect very long operating lives. By utilising resourthe supply chain, our own operations and Saab is working to reduce greenhouse gas ces efficiently throughout the lifecycle, we customers emissions, use resources more efficiently create products with less of an environmen– Unknown, historical contamination of land tal impact and low lifecycle costs, a feature and water and phase out hazardous substances. ­Environmental aspects and requirements that characterises Saab’s products and are reflected in Saab’s global management makes them competitive. One of Gripen’s system and integrated in every level of the competitive advantages, besides an optimiPrimary policy documents: product lifecycle, from product developsed design with light materials and low fuel – Environmental policy – Code of Conduct ment to disposal. consumption, is a unique maintenance – Supplier Code of Conduct ­concept. Reduce climate impact Electrification, which is an important During the year, Saab set a new objective to ­method to reduce emissions from burning reduce GHG emissions by at least 33 per fossil fuels, is something Saab is working on cent by 2030 compared to 2017. The goal is in several areas, ranging from future transconsistent with the Paris Agreeement and port modes to manufacturing processes. the goal to limit global warming to less than Saab’s broad product portfolio contains a 2 ° Celsius. During the year Saab reduced large number of products and services that ­emissions by 3.3 per cent related to 2017. have a positive impact on the environment. Measures to reduce climate impacts The company also participates in several include energy efficiencies in Saab’s research and development collaborations to Planned activities in 2019 ­properties, installation of solar panels and create sustainable solutions for the future. • Launch the new environmental strategy. introduction of electric cars and charging See page 33 and www.saabgroup.com. • Implement a new tool for travel analysis with stations. Another important factor is a focus on CO2 emissions. ­creating environmental awareness among Examples of activities in 2018 • Ensure that all employees conduct basic employees. • Established new environmental strategy, environmental training. The large share of Saab’s CO2 emissions including new environmental objectives. • Work with energy efficiency with the come from business travel. As the business • Launched new, global, web-based ­greatest focus on facilities with the biggest becomes more international, it becomes ­environmental training that is mandatory for savings potential. more important to strike a balance between all employees. • Nightly surveillance of offices and the need to travel and the impact on the • Updated the environmental policy. ­production facilities in all major operating ­climate. Because of this, we try in various • Held CO2 contest at Combitech (Saab’s locations to identify energy thieves. ways to travel more efficiently, including by wholly owned technical consulting • Implement new method to list substances encouraging the use of web conferencing. ­company), where the office with the lowest contained in products. Saab reports greenhouse gas emissions emissions was named the winner. • Improve the process to identify and map to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). For • Implemented energy efficiencies mainly at hazardous substances in products, information on CDP and Saab’s complete Saab facilities outside Sweden, through ­production and maintenance. report, see www.cdp.net. investments, oversight and regulation of • Develop and improve strategies for circular equipment and lighting as well as installaflows. Phase out hazardous substances tion of a solar panels by Saab in South Africa To minimise risks and costs associated with that reduces total energy ­consumption at chemical laws and customer requirements, the facility by 30 per cent. Saab is working strategically to phase out • Performed extensive test flights of an hazardous substances. A number of internal aircraft wing that reduces wind resistance projects are underway to find and validate by laminar flow and thereby cuts fuel new alternatives. Saab is also active in global ­consumption, within the framework of the collaborations to develop alternatives. Clean Sky project. Learn more on page 33 Certain hazardous substances are still and at www.saabgroup.com. needed to meet safety and technical 58 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 A dmi n istratio n report GHG emissions by source GHG emissions relative to Saab's climate target 2030 Tonnes CO2e 80,000 Forecast between 2019–2030 70,000 60,000 50,000 Other Car travel 40,000 Transport of goods 30,000 Company owned aircrafts Heating 20,000 Electricity  wn furnaces/processes and O 10,000 Air travel unscheduled emissions, 3% Climate target Own vehicles and aircraft (incl test flights), 17% 0 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 Purchased electricity, 17% Purchased district heating, 13% Purchased business travel, 42% Purchased goods transports, 7% Performance indicators 2018 Target Rented premises, 1% Reduction of Saab’s GHG 3.3 per cent 33 per cent ­e missions (related to 2017) reduction to 2030 Waste (tonnes) Major changes in emissions in 2018 compared to 2017 Tonnes Tonnes COe 6,000 5,000 Business travel by air 4,000 Energy efficiencies South Africa 3,000 Target towing 2,000 1,000 Corporate flight services 0 Non-hazardous Hazardous Test flights AEW Waste Waste Recycling C  omposting/ Switch to HVO diesel Tannefors I ncineration with anaerobic digestion energy recovery Reuse -1,200 -800 -400 0 400 800 1,200 Incineration Other Landfill S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 59 A dmi n istratio n report Employees To be even more competitive in the future, Health and safety Saab has to stay on the forefront of A prerequisite for higher performance is that Primary risks: – T hat Saab fails to attract and retain ­technology. Employees are the driving Saab offers a safe, secure and healthy workthe right talents force that will take this work ­forward. place from a physical, organisational and – T hat Saab fails to promote diversity social perspective. Saab has an occupatioand inclusiveness, affecting an important source of innovation For every employee to have an opportunity nal health and safety policy that has been – T hat employees do not maintain a to maximize their potential requires competranslated into several languages. During the work-life balance tent leaders. The aspiration is to continue to year, Saab developed a global process to – T hat employee health is affected by support proactive occupational health and ­organisational, social and physical risks in develop an even more business-oriented the workspace and performance-driven leadership, where safety management. The updated process internationalisation and diversity are key emphasises getting employees involved in elements. the work, e.g. performing risk assessments and reporting workplace injuries and inciPrimary policy documents: – Code of Conduct Develop and retain dents. – Occupational health and safety policy Every employee should clearly understand Managers and employees both have to – Travel security policy their expectations. A performance-driven understand the factors that affect occupaculture contributes to engagement and tional health and safety at work. Training and ­opportunities for every employee to reach communication material for both groups are their potential. Individual Performance continuously developed to improve their form a working group for gender equality and Management (IPM) reviews are an important skills. diversity. Their work is overseen by Group tool where the employee and their super­ Occupational health and safety is also Management. visor together set personal goals tied to the built into business processes to address Saab in South Africa has started several company’s business goals. Saab measures early on the risks that may be associated with projects aimed at people who are having employee engagement through pulse various assignments in high risk environme­difficulty entering the job market due to ­surveys, the results of which serve as a nts. An important obligation as an employer apartheid. As part of a skills programme, basis for dialog between leaders and their is to ensure that employees are prepared and Saab has hired disabled youth, who receive employees. well-equipped for travel and foreign assigntraining and mentorship so that they can Saab offers various forms of skills and ments. Saab therefore has extensive routifully contribute to the business. The comleadership development. This includes trainnes and training prior to travel. pany also provides annual training for a numing, some of which is mandatory for all ber of unemployed youth on the so-called employees, and elearning, which is flexible Diversity ICP standards, a sought-after skill in the and cost-efficient. We also promote learning Saab is an inclusive workplace where divermanufacturing sector. The projects align in the form of networks and mentorships and sity and gender equality are a given. We at with the South African government’s action by encouraging employees to take on new Saab have a firm belief, which is supported plan to overcome social and economic challenges. by research, that the different perspectives imbalances created by apartheid, Broad To identify young talents, Saab uses a diversity brings to the organisation are a Based Black Economic Empowerment well-established talent process where indisource of innovation. Having equal treat(B­BBEE). viduals receive training before rising to a ment and non-discrimination as a principle leadership position. Employees identified as also aligns with the principle of human rights. Examples of activities in 2018 top talents are given special development All those who work with recruiting receive • Developed a new strategy to attract the plans to gain a more in-depth understanding training in diversity issues, and diversity is a right future talents. of the company. The Saab Graduate Leaderparameter in leadership training and the • Prepared for implementation of new ship Programme is available for recent gra­global recruitment process. The company ­uniform system support with standardised duates or those starting out in their careers. has a number of networks for women and a HR processes for recruiting, performance network for diversity in a broader sense. reviews, talent identification, skills training Attract employees An overwhelming majority of Saab’s and handling personal data. To remain competitive, Saab has to continue employees are men. Saab has therefore • Began clarifying various career options to attract the right talent. The company is focused for several years on increasing the using a consistent structure to create transworking to position itself as an ­attractive share of women in management positions. parency and promote internal mobility employer among students and professioThrough systematic and persistent efforts, • Analysed the requirements of the ISO nals. An annual trainee program, offers of the company has succeeded in doubling the 45001 occupational health and safety summer jobs and master’s ­programmes, share of female managers in ten years, ­standard and began implementation. school visits, study visits and career fairs are ­between 2007 and 2017. Saab has remained • Developed a global process to proactively among the examples. focused on gender equality and has now address occupational health and safety Saab is also working long-term to pro­raised the target. Each business area’s issues and began implementation. mote education and an interest in technomanagement team has an ambassador for • Began working with a global provider of logy among young students to broaden its gender equality, who moves the work occupational health and safety training and future recruiting base and at the same time ­forward and is responsible for developing compliance support. take social responsibility. Learn more about business area’s action plan. Together with Saab’s social engagement on page 26–27. representatives from HR, the ambassadors 60 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 A dmi n istratio n report • Launched web-based training on “Health Performance indicators – Develop and safety from an organisational and social 2017 2018 Target perspective” for employees in Sweden. Number of training sessions completed by employ49,155 (of 60,287 ees during the year (only training booked through whom 15% (of whom Planned activities in 2019 Saab’s internal training portal) external 7% external • Implement a new uniform system support training) training) with standardised HR processes for among Share of employees who state in the employee 75% 76% other things ­recruitment, performance ­survey they are engaged in their work management, talent management, training Share of employees who have discussed their Measured Measured 100 % and managing employee data. ­personal goals, development and performance with globally globally their manager from 2019 from 2019 • Continue implementation of the global occupational health and safety process. • Conduct internal and external audits to Performance indicators – Attract ­prepare for ISO 45001 certification audit. 2017 2018 Target Number of Master’s students (Sweden) 191 227 At least 150 Number of summer jobs (Sweden) 466 423 Rank in Universum’s survey of Swedish engineering 6 6 Among students’ favourite places to work top five Employee turnover (Sweden) 6.7% 7.5% Performance indicators – Health and safety 2017 2018 Target Number of reported incidents per workplace injury 5 10 (a higher propensity to report incidents reduces the risk of a workplace injury) 25.1% Total Case Incident Rate 1.72 Number of reported workplace injuries 211 183 Health index (percentage of employees who have 74.9% 73.4% taken less than 40 hours of sick leave in a year) Share of female (Sweden) managers globally Sick leave (Sweden) 2.94% 3.15% 23.5% Sick leave, women (Sweden) 4.55% 4.75% Sick leave, men (Sweden) 2.48% 2.68% Number of employees who completed Saab’s travel Step 1: 472 Step 1: 693 security training steps 1 and 2 as well as first aid Step 2: 146 Step 2: 221 Share of female training (L-ABC) since 2016 L-ABC: 167 L-ABC: 701 employees globally 28.5% Performance indicators – Diversity 2017 2018 Target Share of women in Group Management 38.5% 30.7% Share of women on the Board of Directors 44.4% 44.4% Share of female (AGM elected excluding CEO) managers in Sweden Share of female summer workers (Sweden) 43% 38% 23.5% Share of master thesis students who are female 28% 27% 30% (Sweden) Share of women in the Saab skills programme 40% 43% (South Africa) Number of nationalities among Saab’s employees 53 51 Share of female Share of employees outside Sweden 19% 18% employees in Sweden Average age of Saab’s employees 46 45 Saab’s grade in B-BBEE (Broad Based Black Econo2 41) mic Empowerment), a South African programme to assist the previously disadvantaged groups 1) Saab reached a lower level compared to 2017 due to the changes in the legal requirements for B-BBEE in 2018. S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 61 A dmi n istratio n report Human rights As a responsible company in a global protect its citizens against acts of aggres­market, it goes without saying that Saab sion. A military defence is the ultimate Primary risks: – Non-compliance with Saab’s supplier respects basic human rights and tries not expression of this. A domestic defence code of conduct. to cause or contribute to adverse impacts ­industry is an important component in a – T hat minerals and other raw materials on human rights. country’s defence capabilities, but requires Saab and its subcontractors use in their products are obtained from conflict areas. sales and technological collaborations with Saab has pledged to apply the UN Global other countries for its long-term developCompact’s ten principles and integrated ment. them in its Code of Conduct. Through proThe large part of Saab’s exports is from Primary policy documents: curement processes and in contacts with Sweden, where the Inspectorate of strategic – Code of Conduct partners we increase awareness of the UN products (ISP) determines on behalf of the – Supplier Code of Conduct – Conflict mineral policy Global Compact and in this way promote the government which defence products Saab – Occupational health and safety policy values Saab stands for. Saab has an impact may sell to which countries. Defence – Export control policy on human rights through its work in a exports require authorisation, which can be ­number of areas, ranging from diversity and given if there are security and defence policy occupational health and safety to anti-­ reasons for the export and it is consistent corruption and export control. This work with Swedish foreign policy interests. Export with human rights issues is a continuous authorisations are granted on a case-byprocess that develops over time. case basis, where ISP weighs a number of Saab uses the UN guiding principles for criteria in a comprehensive assessment. ISP business and human rights to support its also takes into account the type of product work. According to these principles, compainvolved; see below. nies are expected to identify their most Saab also has its own internal processes important human rights issues, where there to weigh the risks associated with among is a risk of serious adverse consequences other things human rights to evaluate new from the company’s operations. Saab has business opportunities. Saab makes a comidentified compliance with export regulaprehensive assessment in which several tions (right to life, freedom and personal factors are considered. The company’s safety) and responsible supplier relationsstance is that international trade can be a hips (right to fair working conditions) as its way to promote countries’ development. most important issues. Saab has Group-wide policies and tools to facilitate compliance with the export conCompliance with export regulations trols that apply to the company’s products At the same time that defence materiel and operations. The Head of Export Control ­contributes to upholding human rights, it is responsible for the company’s overarcan, if used incorrectly and contrary to ching policy, directives and governing policy ­international law, also lead to human rights documents as well as for providing advice to violations. The export of defence materiel the businesses on operational issues and therefore represents a great responsibility monitoring compliance within the company. and is subject to strict regulations. In addition, each business area has its own The UN Charter establishes that every export control organisation to manage the country has the right – and obligation – to work at an operational level. To encourage The type of product being exported is factored into export authorisation decisions The licensing authority in Sweden divides the products into the following categories: • Military equipment for combat, e.g. weapons • Other military equipment, e.g. radar surveillance systems • Dual use products, e.g. electronics and computers 62 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 A dmi n istratio n report collaboration and prioritise needs, Saab also the code of conduct in all contracts with a has an export control council with represensignificant commercial impact. In the supptatives from various parts of the business. lier code of conduct, which is based on the Saab is constantly developing its procesUN Global Compact’s principles and the ses to improve the work. Continuous internal International Labour Organization’s core training on export controls is provided for conventions, we stipulate that we expect our employees who come in contact with consuppliers to place similar demands on their trolled products or technologies. Websubcontractors. If a supplier does not live up based introductory training is also available to the requirements, Saab’s position as far to Saab’s employees. For export control offias possible is to encourage them to improve cers and other key employees, a biennial and work with them. Serious non-compliconference is held to review various export ance or an unwillingness to cooperate can, controls and related legal matters. We also however, have contractual consequences work with other industries through trade for the supplier. associations in Sweden, EU and U.S. Conflict minerals are extracted in conflict zones and sold to finance armed groups and Responsible supplier relationships sustain violence against local populations. The large share of Saab’s purchases is from Saab’s aspiration is to eliminate these Sweden and an overwhelming majority of ­minerals from its products. The supplier suppliers are in Europe. Saab has relatively code of conduct includes a special section few first-tier suppliers in countries where on conflict minerals and we also have a national laws and internationally accepted policy and rules for them. principles and norms for fair labour, anti-­ corruption and the environment are not fully Examples of activities in 2018 accepted. Saab therefore sees the biggest • Hired a resource to coordinate risks further down the supply chain. Saab ­sustainability work in the supply chain. mainly buys components and technologies • Drafted special policy and action plan for connected to its systems and to a lesser “Combating human trafficking and slavery”. extent operational and other services. We see our suppliers as an extension of Planned activities in 2019 our own operations and expect them to take • Develop an interactive tool to effectively the same social and environmental responallow suppliers to access and accept Saab’s sibility as we do. Systematic measures to code of conduct. ensure that responsibility is being taken in • For each business area, implement a numthe supply chain not only minimises risks, ber of follow-ups, evaluations and dialogs but also leads to higher quality in the prowith suppliers that have accepted the code ducts we buy. In many cases Saab has close, of conduct. long-term relationships with well-respected • Train Saab’s procurement organisation on suppliers. sustainability in the supply chain. Saab works continuously to find better • Update the supplier code of conduct. ways to minimise social and environmental risks in the supply chain. We strive to include S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 63 A dmi n istratio n report Society Saab’s sustainability commitment is rooted four years has contributed to a significant in its mission to make people and society increase in the number of bilateral research Primary risks: – T hat information falls into the wrong safe by contributing to security and projects. Saab recently established hands through mishandling or a break-in defence capabilities. With its high-tech research and innovation centres in Finland in Saabs IT-systems businesses, Saab also creates additional and Singapore as well. – Future shortage of engineers value for society. Some of Saab’s development projects result in product ideas that fall outside the Saab’s operations play an important role in core business. These projects are managed Primary policy documents: driving innovation and technological deveby Saab Ventures, which together with out– Product safety policy lopment in society. With employees in a large side investors further develops the ideas – Information security policy number of locations, Saab creates jobs and and finds a natural home for them. See – Policy on sponsorships and social ­e ngagement opportunities for collaboration and spreads examples at www.saabgroup.com. – Code of Conduct knowledge. Considering the products it sells, Saab naturally takes responsibility for Promote education and an interest information and product security. in technology Saab’s aspiration is to contribute to social Innovation and spreading knowledge development in the markets where we Saab’s advanced product development ­operate with a focus on promoting educagenerates know-how, technological solution and an interest in technology. This creations and innovations for the future. An tes confidence in Saab’s businesses and important part of Saab’s innovative capabilihelps to develop skills that are beneficial to ties is university partnerships. Among other society as a whole as well as to Saab. Social things, Saab employees have the opportuinitiatives are mainly done with the help of nity to research for a PhD, while researchers the company’s employees, since this and students from the schools can get invol­provides valuable experience for those who ved in Saab’s work. In collaboration with the get involved. universities, a number of adjunct professors To promote an interest in technology, have been appointed as well. Saab offers a number of activities for Universities Saab mainly partners with: When Saab signs large defence cont­children and young adults from preschool KTH Royal Institute of Technology in racts, they usually contain more than just a upward. Everything from technology classes Stockholm, the Institute of Technology product sale. Many countries also want for kids, technology contests, study visits at Linköping University, Chalmers technology and skills transfers as well as and summer engineering school to a high ­University of Technology in Göteborg, various forms of industrial cooperation. school program where students have close the Swedish Defence University in Through customised offerings, Saab has contact with Saab’s businesses. See more Stockholm, Lund University, Aalto contributed together with partners to examples at www.saabgroup.com. ­University in Finland and Nanyang ­several successful projects that affect the Saab has taken this ability to think inno­Technology University in Singapore. country's economy in a positive direction. vatively and create change and applied it to Sweden is seen by many countries as a equestrian sports by sponsoring a concept leader in entrepreneurship and innovative called Equestrian Innovations. With an thinking. Saab brings the way research and ­emphasis on innovative thinking, Saab development is done in Sweden to new wants to play a part in helping the sport to ­markets by building relationships with develop. A number of exciting collaborative ­academia, businesses and the public sector. projects create new knowledge and lead to Many potential customers want access greater innovation, at the same time that to the technology and capabilities Saab can they spark interest in an engineering educaoffer. At the same time, this gives Saab an tion among young equestrians. Saab gets opportunity to participate early on in custoyoung people involved through seminars on mer projects. For example, Saab is one of the innovation and personal development tied founders of the Swedish-Brazilian Research to the equestrian environment. and Innovation Centre CISB in Brazil. The organisation has 17 members and over 100 Information security partners. Saab is also one of the founders of Saab manages information that is vitally the Swiss-Swedish Innovation Initiative, a important to its customers and in many virtual innovation platform to bring together cases to Sweden’s and other nations’ research, innovation organisations and ­security. In an increasingly uncertain world companies in Sweden and Switzerland. The with growing cybersecurity challenges, conplatform has been very successful and in tinuous and systematic information and IT 64 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 A dmi n istratio n report security is critical. We work constantly to Performance indicators improve its global security management, 2017 2018 Goal a key element of which is risk management. Number of PhD candidates 36 PhD candidates 54 PhD candidates Saab will annually Every employee and manager has to (university collaborations and have at least 20 understand their role in the security work. PhD candidates ­contribute to PhD candidates Taking advantage of the opportunities that innovation). new information technology offers requires Number of participants in 510 570 that information and IT security is fully inteyouth seminars on innovation and personal development in grated with business and technological equestrian sports. development. Number of employees 27 28 who serve as math tutors Product safety (Sweden). With a product portfolio containing every­ Participants in the “Saab skills 110 106 thing from advanced aircraft systems to programme” (to promote submarines, it is vital that Saab’s products ­e ngineering skills and assist are safe to use. The safety level of Saab’s those who have ­previously been locked out of the job systems and products must meet approprimarket due to apartheid) ate laws, regulations, international stan(South Africa). dards and best practices. Share of systems safety risks 100% 99% (the work will 100% The methodical safety analysis con­ addressed in the submarine be completed ducted during product development is and surface vessel design and during 2019) construction phase. ­described in the System Safety Handbook and included in Saab’s global enterprise management system. System safety engineers in Saab’s organisation handle analysis work in the projects and share knowledge on product safety Examples of activities in 2018 through information and training. Collabora• Provided summer engineering school, tion in this area is important and affects not study visits, technology contests, mentoonly the system safety engineers but also ring programs, etc. for children and young many others such as designers, systems adults from preschool to high school. engineers, ­buyers and project leaders. • Signed a cooperative agreement with Lund To guarantee the continued airworthiUniversity. ness of its military and commercial aircraft, • Further developed technical security Saab has special processes for aviation and ­solutions. system safety. As part of the processes, • Started a working group to manage and Saab monitors how the aircraft are used and further develop a systems safety handanalyses all reported events. Another area book. with high product safety demands is the submarine and surface vessels business. Planned activities in 2019 It is critical to identify and manage risks at an • Saab Technical High School will celebrate early stage in order to ensure a final product its 10th anniversary. that is safe to use and will not cause harm to • In collaboration with Vinnova, among people, property or the environment. ­others, innovation platforms will be launched in customer countries to coordinate collaborations between government, ­industry and academia. • Develop a process to collaborate with ­start-ups and small businesses in order to encourage innovation at Saab. • Implement audit programmes for selected parts of Saab’s IT infrastructure. • Develop Saab’s product safety process to meet increasing demands from current and future customers. S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 65 A dmi n istratio n report Governance of sustainability work The Board of Directors adopts the Group’s business area and subsidiary. The Group ­ lobal enterprise system. Saab is certified g Code of Conduct and sustainability reports. Environmental Council coordinates and according to the ISO 14001 environ­mental The Corporate Responsibility Council promonitors Saab’s environmental work. management ­system. poses priorities to Group Management. The ­Follow-up and evaluation of the work takes Council is comprised of representatives place once a year through the management Collaborations, initiatives from Saab’s Group Management and is led review, and at audits at different levels within and memberships by the Executive Vice President, who is the company. Saab has participated since 2011 in the UN responsible for sustainability issues in Global Compact and has pledged to follow Group Management. Saab’s Corporate Employer of choice its ten principles on human rights, labour, the Responsibility function coordinates sustain­ Saab’s Head of Group Human Resources has environment and anti-corruption. As guid­ ability work within the Group. For each prior­ overarching responsibility for HR work within ance in its sustainability work, Saab follows ity sustainability issue a person is appointed the Group. This work is managed in close the OECD’s guidelines on multinational each year to gather information within their collaboration with the HR functions within enterprises. In addition, Saab has chosen to area and report goals and results. each business area and is led by the HR staff. participate in a number of sustainability initiatives and organisations. Examples include: Zero tolerance for corruption Contribute to society • The business ethics committee of the AeroThe Board of Directors is responsible, Saab’s contributions are guided by its vision space and Defence Industries Association through the Audit Committee, for overseeand business idea. Activities that contribute of Europe (ASD) ing the Code of Conduct and has ultimate to social development should, according to • The steering committee of the International responsibility for monitoring and evaluating the strategy for social engagement, mainly Forum on Business Ethical Conduct (IFBEC) business ethics. The Ethics and Compliance be carried out with the help of Saab’s • Environmental collaborations through the Board leads and draws up guidelines for this employees and technologies and focus on Swedish Security and Defence Industry work, makes decisions on ethical issues and encouraging young people to take an inter­ Association (SOFF) follows up whistleblowing cases. The board est in technology and education. • Environmental collaborations within Europe meets at least eight times a year and is led by through the Aerospace and Defence Saab’s General Counsel, who reports to the Policies ­Industries Association in Europe (ASD) and Board of Directors’ Audit Committee. Two Saab’s sustainability work is managed globally through the International Aeroother important functions are Ethics and through established policies and similar space Environmental Group (IAEG) Compliance, which are responsible for monidocuments, such as the Code of Conduct, • Global Compact Network Nordic Countries toring, coordinating and developing efforts HR policy, environmental policy, occupa­ • Carbon Disclosure Project to prevent corruption and provides expert­ tional health and safety policy, procurement • Global Reporting Initiative ise in this area, and Market Network Managepolicy, diversity policy, business travel policy • Green Chain ment, which, in collaboration with the markeand security policy. The Code of Conduct ting and product functions, oversees the contains sections on business ethics, inforentire process of hiring marketing consulmation security, social responsibility, the tants and other third parties. workplace, the environment etc. The Code is available in Swedish, English, Portuguese, Reduce environmental impact Spanish, German, Arabish and Czech. Saab Responsibility for Saab’s strategic developalso has a Supplier Code of Conduct based ment and environmental work rests with on the UN Global Compact’s ten principles Group Function Environmental Manageand the International Labour Organization’s ment. Within the business areas, the work is core conventions. Saab does not have a led by the head of each business area, who separate policy for human rights, since it is bears ultimate responsibility. The goals set covered in the other policies. Group policies at the Group level are broken down for each are available to all employees on Saab’s 66 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 A dmi n istratio n report Stakeholder dialog and materiality analysis Stakeholders’ expectations, together with examples of which are listed in the table Saab’s operations are zero tolerance for corSaab’s own strategic assessment, serve as below. Saab also participates in several ruption and export compliance. Many also the basis for selecting priority issues for ­collaborations and organisations that want to know more about how Saab works Saab’s sustainability work (see pages 54-55) ­provide valuable contributions to the work with sustainable innovations. Each stakeholand, as a result, the contents of this report. (see page 66). der group also has expectations on Saab Saab receives input from stakeholders The sustainability issues most stake­ based on their specific area of interest. through a number of channels, several holders point to as especially important for Stakeholder group Primary forms of dialog Owners and investors • Separate meetings with investors on sustainability issues • Annual General Meeting • Sustainability surveys from investors and analysts • Continuous dialog with investors and analysts Employees • Continuous dialog on the job • Personal reviews • Annual employee survey Students and potential employees • Labour market days and similar events • University collaborations • External surveys on what students expect from future employers Customers • Personal meetings, trade shows and conferences Society as a whole, including decision-makers • Participation in defence forums and debates, e.g. Almedalen and Folk och Försvar in Sälen and stakeholder organisations • Collaborations with public organisations and authorities, e.g. the EU and UN • Volunteer work and collaborations with non-profits Suppliers and partner • Continuous contact with suppliers and partners S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 67 A dmi n istratio n R eport Corporate governance report Introduction The Board of Directors has an authorisation from the shareholders’ Saab AB is a Swedish public limited liability company and the compameeting to repurchase shares; see page 79 for more information. As of ny’s Series B shares are listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. 31 December 2018, Saab held 2,363,299 of its own Series B shares, Saab’s corporate governance is based on the Swedish Companies corresponding to 1.8 per cent of the share capital. For more information Act, the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, Nasdaq Stockholm Rules for on the ownership structure, see page 36. Issuers, the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance and other relevant Swedish and foreign laws, regulations and guidelines. Largest shareholders, 31 January 2019 Saab has a Code of Conduct containing ethical guidelines in a ­number Source: Modular Finance % of capital % of votes of areas on how the company and its employees are expected to act in Investor AB 30.2 40.3 contacts with customers, business partners and in society as well as Knut and Alice Wallenberg Foundation 8.8 7.7 their interaction with one another as colleagues. Saab’s Code of Conduct Swedbank Robur Fonder 5.6 4.9 is a part of the governance of Saab. Första AP-fonden 3.7 3.3 AFA Försäkring 2.9 2.5 Swedish Code of Corporate Governance Vanguard 1.9 1.6 Since Saab's shares are traded on Nasdaq Stockholm and it must Livförsäkringsbolaget Skandia 1.7 1.5 follow good practices in the securities market, Saab is also obligated to Fidelity Investments (FMR) 1.6 1.4 ­comply with the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance (the Code). Nordea Fonder 1.4 1.2 The Code is available at www.bolagsstyrning.se. Norges Bank 1.4 1.2 This Corporate Governance Report is prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and the Code, and describes how Saab applied the Code in the financial year 2018. Saab’s website, ­ Nomination Committee www.saabgroup.com, has a special section on corporate governance According to the Nomination Committee process adopted by the issues, which is updated continuously in accordance with the Code. Annual General Meeting 2011, which applies until further notice, Saab The Corporate Governance Report includes the Board of Directors’ shall have a Nomination Committee consisting of one representative of report on internal control over financial reporting. each of the four shareholders or groups of shareholders with the greatThis Corporate Governance Report has been reviewed by the compaest number of votes, along with the Chairman of the Board. The names ny’s auditor. Saab did not deviate from the provisions of the Code in 2018. of the four shareholder representatives and the shareholders they represent shall be announced at least six months prior to the Annual General Shareholders’ meeting and ownership structure Meeting based on known votes as per the last business day of August in The shareholders’ meeting is the highest decision-making body in a the year before the Annual General Meeting. The Nomination Committee company. At a shareholders’ meeting, the shareholders are given the process includes procedures, where necessary, to replace a member opportunity to exercise their votes. The Annual General Meeting shall be who leaves the committee before its work has been completed. held within six months of the end of each financial year. Shareholders at According to the process, the Nomination Committee shall prepare the Annual General Meeting vote, for example, on resolutions relating to a proposal on the following issues to be presented to the Annual the annual report, dividend, Board election, Board fees, auditor’s fees, ­General Meeting for resolution: adoption of remuneration guidelines for senior executives and, when a) Chairman of the shareholders’ meeting applicable, election of the external auditor and other matters stipulated in b) Board of Directors the Companies Act. Preparations for and the execution of the AGM 2018 c) Chairman of the Board were carried out in accordance with the Code, and the AGM 2019 will also d) Remuneration to the members of the Board, allocated between comply with the provisions of the Code. The Annual General Meeting of the Chairman and other members of the Board, and remuneration Saab was held on 10 April 2018 in Linköping and was attended by 587 for committee work shareholders, representing about 66 per cent of the total number of e) Election of auditor, (if applicable), and votes in the company. This year the Annual General Meeting will be held f) Fees paid to the company's auditor. on 11 April 2019 in Linköping; for more information, see page 141. On 16 November 2018, Saab held an Extraordinary General Meeting in Prior to the Annual General Meeting on 10 April 2018, the Nomination Stockholm. Shareholders at the meeting resolved to authorise the Board Committee issued a proposal for resolution on the Chairman of the of Directors to decide on a rights issue for the company’s shareholders. shareholders’ meeting, the Board of Directors and the remuneration to The Extraordinary General Meeting was attended by 335 shareholders, the Board and auditor. The Nomination Committee announced that it or about 65 per cent of the total number of votes in the company. had applied rule 4.1 of the Code as a diversity policy with respect to the On 31 December 2018, Saab’s share capital amounted to SEK Board. The goal of the policy is that Saab will have a board with an 2,170,749,952 and consisted of 2,383,903 Series A shares and appropriate composition and with satisfactory diversity and breadth in 133,287,969 Series B shares. After final registration of the issue by the terms of gender, competence, age, experience and background. Swedish Companies Registration Office (Bolagsverket) in early January Prior to the Annual General Meeting on 11 April 2019, it was 2019, the share capital amounts to SEK 2,173,533,552 and consists of announced in a press release on 26 September 2018 that, in addition to 2,383,903 Series A shares and 133,461,944 Series B shares. Series A Chairman of the Board Marcus Wallenberg, the following shareholder shares have ten votes each, while Series B shares have one vote each. representatives had been appointed to the Nomination Committee A Series A share may, on demand of the owner, be converted to a Series (shareholder’s name in parentheses): Petra Hedengran (Investor AB), B share. The Saab shares are registered with Euroclear Sweden AB. The Peter Wallenberg Jr (Knut and Alice Wallenberg Foundation), quota value per share is SEK 16. The Series B shares are listed on Jan Andersson (Swedbank Robur Funds) and Anders Algotsson (AFA ­Nasdaq Stockholm’s Large Cap list. The Series A shares are not listed. Försäkring). Petra Hedengran is Chairman of the Nomination Committee. All Series A shares are owned by Investor AB. 68 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 A dmi n istratio n R eport Governance and reporting 2018 Shareholders’ meeting Nomination Committee External auditor Representatives of each of the four shareEv PricewaterhouseCoopers AB. Re-elected holders or groups of shareholders with alu 2015 for the period 2015 until the Annual at the greatest number of votes, along with io General Meeting 2019. Auditor in charge n the Chairman of the Board. Bo Hjalmarsson. Board of Directors Remuneration Committee Audit Committee President and CEO Internal boards Group Management Internal Audit Functional Board Strategy Board Ethics and Compliance Board Communication Board Business areas Group Functions Market Areas Corporate Responsibility Council Security Board Aeronautics Finance Asia Pacific Dynamics HR Europe Internal Boards handle and resolve issues Surveillance Communication North America within their respective areas that affect Legal affairs Support and Services Latin America the entire Group and prepare certain issues Industrial Products Strategy Middle East and Africa for decision by the Group Management. Ethics and Compliance Board also reports and Services Reports to the Audit Committee. Kockums Appoints All operating units report monthly and quarterly according to a standardised routine. In the aggregate they represent approximately 54 per cent of the votes Bert Nordberg, Cecilia Stegö Chilò, Erika Söderberg Johnson, Marcus in Saab based on the ownership structure as of 31 August 2018. After Wallenberg and Joakim Westh were re-elected. Marcus Wallenberg was ownership changes in the fourth quarter of 2018, Olof ­Jonasson elected Chairman of the Board of Directors. ­(Första AP-fonden) has served as an adjunct member of the NominaThe current composition of the Board is the result of the Nomination tion Committee from mid-December 2018. Committee's work prior to the Annual General Meeting 2018 applying The proposals of the Nomination Committee were announced in the diversity policy. The members of the Board of Directors of Saab connection with the notice of the Annual General Meeting 2019. ­represents a diversity and breadth in terms of competence, age, experience and background. In the aggregate, the Board combines the comMembers of the Nomination Committee petence and experience that are important to Saab’s operations and for Annual General Meeting 2019 that the Nomination Committee deems are needed to meet Saab’s future challenges and needs. Of the Board members elected by the % of votes, % of capital, Member Representing 31 Aug 2018 31 Aug 2018 shareholders’ meeting, excluding the CEO, 44.4 per cent are women. Petra Hedengran Investor AB 39.54 30.03 At the statutory Board meeting after the Annual General Meeting, Peter Wallenberg Jr Knut and Alice Wallenberg Sten Jakobsson was elected Deputy Chairman of the Board. Among ­Foundation 7.59 8.79 Board members, only CEO Håkan Buskhe is employed by the company. Jan Andersson Swedbank Robur Fonder 4.20 4.87 Information on remuneration to the members of the Board as Anders Algotsson AFA Försäkring 2.42 2.80 resolved by the AGM 2018 is set forth in note 9. Marcus Wallenberg Chairman of the Board of Saab AB Members of the Board elected by the shareholders’ meeting Regulars Board of Directors Marcus Wallenberg Sara Mazur Erika Söderberg Johnson Composition of the Board Håkan Buskhe Daniel Nodhäll Joakim Westh According to Saab’s Articles of Association, the Board of Directors Sten Jakobsson Bert Nordberg Danica Kragic Jensfelt Cecilia Stegö Chilò shall, in addition to the employee representatives, consist of at least six and not more than twelve members. Board members are elected annuEmployee representatives ally by the shareholders’ meeting. According to the resolution of the Regulars Deputies Annual General Meeting on 10 April 2018, Saab’s Board of Directors Stefan Andersson Conny Holm shall consist of ten members elected by the shareholders’ meeting with Göran Gustavsson Magnus Gustafsson no deputies. In addition, employee organisations appoint three Board Nils Lindskog Tina Mikkelsen members with an equal number of deputies. The Board members’ other significant professional commitments, work At the Annual General Meeting on 10 April 2018, Håkan Buskhe, experience, shareholdings etc. are set forth in the presentation of the Sten Jakobsson, Danica Kragic Jensfelt, Sara Mazur, Daniel Nodhäll, Board of Directors on pages 74–75. S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 69 A dmi n istratio n R eport Independence requirement ber. The Board meeting in December considers the company’s budget The table below sets forth the Board members elected by the sharefor the coming year. The Board then also addressed the performance holders’ meeting who, according to the provisions of the Code, are contargets in the company’s two performance related share plans. During sidered independent in relation to the company and its management, 2018, the Board especially focused on issues relating to major projects as well as in relation to the company’s major shareholders. such as Gripen NG to Brazil, Gripen E to Sweden, A26 to Sweden, GlobalEye to the United Arab Emirates and the T-X jet trainer to the U.S. Composition and independence of the Board in 2018 Air Force as well as other significant export and marketing issues. The Independent Independent Board also worked during the year on the MSEK 6,006 rights issue and of company/ of major the Enterprise Risk Management process. Member Elected management shareholders The work in the committees represent an important part of the Marcus Wallenberg 1992 Yes No1) Board’s work. After each meeting of the Audit and Remuneration ComHåkan Buskhe 2011 No2) Yes mittees, the respective Chairman submits a report to the Board on the Sten Jakobsson 2008 Yes Yes issues that were dealt with at the meeting. The Board then adopts resoDanica Kragic Jensfelt 2017 Yes Yes lutions on any matters prepared by the committees. Sara Mazur 2013 Yes No3) Daniel Nodhäll 2017 Yes No4) Board of Directors’ committee work Bert Nordberg 2016 Yes Yes Audit Committee Cecilia Stegö Chilò 2010 Yes Yes In accordance with the principles set out in the Swedish Companies Act Erika Söderberg Johnson 2017 Yes Yes and the Code, the Board of Directors has appointed an Audit CommitJoakim Westh 2010 Yes Yes tee consisting of three members. The work of the Audit Committee is mainly of a preparatory nature, i.e. preparing matters for resolution by 1) Member of Investor AB’s Board. 2) President and CEO of Saab. the Board. The Audit Committee has certain limited decision-making Member of Investor AB’s Board. power. For example, it has established guidelines for services other 3) 4) Employed by Investor AB. than auditing that the company may procure from the auditor. The Audit Accordingly, the company fulfils the Code’s requirement that a majority Committee’s members following the Annual General Meeting 2018 are of Board members appointed by the shareholders’ meeting are indeJoakim Westh (Chairman of the Committee), Daniel Nodhäll and Erika pendent of the company and its management, and that at least two are Söderberg Johnson, whereof both Joakim Westh and Erika Söderberg independent of the major shareholders. Johnson are independent of the company and its management as well as of the major shareholders. Moreover, all members of the committee Work of the Board have accounting or auditing competence. The General Counsel, Annika According to the Board’s rules of procedure, seven ordinary meetings Bäremo, was Secretary to the Audit Committee in 2018. shall normally be held each year, in addition to the statutory meeting. The Audit Committee’s assignment is set forth in the Board’s rules of The Board can also meet when circumstances demand. During 2018, procedure. The Audit Committee shall, among other things, monitor the the Board held one statutory meeting, seven ordinary meetings and company’s financial reporting and submit proposals to ensure the four extra meetings, or a total of twelve meetings. All the Board meetintegrity of the financial reporting, oversee the performance of the ings in 2018 were held in Stockholm, with the exception of two held in company’s internal control, internal audit and risk management in connection with the Annual General Meeting in April, which was in respect of the financial reporting, keep itself informed of the audit of the Linköping. In connection with the June meeting, a visit was also paid to annual report and consolidated accounts, inform the Board of the Kockums’ operations at the Muskö shipyard. results of the audit, review and monitor the auditor’s impartiality and The Board annually adopts rules of procedure, an instruction on the independence, assist the Nomination Committee in preparing the prodivision of work between the Board and the CEO, and an instruction on posal for the shareholders’ meeting’s election of the auditor and in cerfinancial reporting to the Board. tain cases procure auditing services, in addition to establishing guideThe rules of procedure contain provisions on the number of Board lines for services other than auditing that may be provided by the commeetings, a list of matters to be considered at the meetings, reporting pany’s auditor. Moreover, the Audit Committee shall annually monitor from the auditor, and special decisions to be taken at the statutory and evaluate the effectiveness and appropriateness of the company’s meeting. The rules of procedure and special instruction for the CEO set business ethics regulations, including the Code of Conduct, and keep forth the delegation of responsibilities between the Board and its two itself informed of material deviations or non-compliance with the comcommittees, the Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee, pany’s business ethics regulations, including whistleblower reports, including the Chairman’s role, as well as the division of labour between through regular reporting from the Ethics and Compliance Board. The the Board and the CEO. The instruction for the CEO sets forth the CEO's company’s external auditor participates in the meetings of the Audit duties and authority, including matters which require a Board decision. Committee. During 2018, the Audit Committee focused especially on Policies on investments, financing and reporting are also connected to current issues relating to the company’s financial position, the rights the instruction. issue, the financial reporting, execution of major projects, budget, risk During the year, the Board was assisted by the Secretary of the management, internal control and issues relating to the company’s Board of Directors, General Counsel Annika Bäremo, who is not a membusiness ethical rules. ber of the Board. The Audit Committee keeps minutes of its meetings, which are disThe Board of Directors’ meetings follow an agenda. Prior to each tributed to the other members of the Board. In 2018, the Committee meeting, Board members receive documentation and supporting held six meetings. material for the issues on the agenda. At each Board meeting the CEO presents a Market and Operations Report. A financial report is also preRemuneration Committee sented at each Board meeting and is addressed in detail prior to the In accordance with principles set out in the Code, the Board of Directors publication of the interim reports and year-end report. The Board reguhas appointed a Remuneration Committee consisting of three memlarly considers investments, research and development, organisational bers. The Remuneration Committee’s members following the Annual issues, management of significant risk areas, and acquisitions and General Meeting 2018 are Sten Jakobsson, Marcus Wallenberg and divestments. The Board’s annual work includes deciding on the compaBert Nordberg. Sten Jakobsson is the Chairman of the Committee. All ny’s business plan and strategy, which in 2018 it addressed in Decem70 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 A dmi n istratio n R eport are independent of the company and its management. The General Board members respond to a questionnaire and give their opinions on Counsel, Annika Bäremo, was Secretary to the committee during 2018. the Board’s work and performance. The results are then compared with The Remuneration Committee’s tasks are to prepare the Board’s resoprevious years and discussed at the Board meeting in December. The lutions on remuneration principles, remuneration and other terms of questionnaire consists of six parts covering the breadth of the Board’s employment for the Group Management, monitor and evaluate variable competence, how the Board conducts its work, the Chairman, the remuneration programmes for the Group Management, both ongoing Board’s composition, the cooperative atmosphere and possible and those ended during the year, and monitor and evaluate the applicaimprovements. The Chairman of the Board does not participate in the tion of the remuneration guidelines for senior executives adopted by Board's discussion on the results of the Chairman’s evaluation. the Annual General Meeting as well as the current remuneration strucThe Nomination Committee is informed of the results of the evaluatures and levels in the company. The Remuneration Committee also tion in connection with preparing its proposal on the composition of the proposes remuneration guidelines for senior executives, which, followBoard. ing resolution by the Board of Directors, are submitted to the Annual The Board continuously evaluates the CEO's work by monitoring the General Meeting. Matters concerning the employment terms, remunercompany’s performance relative to established goals. The Board also ation and other benefits for the CEO are prepared by the Remuneration evaluates the CEO's work through its members' responses to a quesCommittee for resolution by the Board. The Remuneration Committee tionnaire on the CEO in the areas of performance, organisation, people is responsible for interpretation and application of the remuneration and leadership. The CEO does not participate in this evaluation. guidelines for senior executives. The Remuneration Committee has no decision-making powers of its own. During 2018, the Remuneration Chief Executive Officer Committee focused especially on issues relating to the company’s The President and CEO of Saab, Håkan Buskhe, is also a member of the long-term incentive programmes, including the proposed performance Board. His significant professional commitments outside the company, targets in the company’s two performance related share plans. The earlier positions and shareholding in the company are set forth in the Remuneration Committee keeps minutes of its meetings, which are dispresentation of the Board of Directors; see page 75. Håkan Buskhe tributed to the other members of the Board. In 2018, the Committee does not own shares nor is he a partner in any company with which held three meetings. Saab has material business ties. Evaluation Guidelines for remuneration and other benefits The Chairman of the Board annually performs an evaluation of the for senior executives Board’s work and possible improvement areas, in order to develop the The guidelines for remuneration and other benefits for senior forms and effectiveness of its work. The evaluation is made by having ­executives are explained on page 78–79. Attendance and board remuneration in 2018 Audit Board Committee Board Committee Remuneration Total Audit Remuneration meetings meetings remuneration remuneration Committee remuneration Name Committee Committee attended 1) attended 2) KSEK 3) KSEK remuneration KSEK Marcus Wallenberg x 12 3 1,750 90 1,840 Håkan Buskhe 12 Sten Jakobsson x 12 3 675 150 825 Cecilia Stegö Chilò 12 600 600 Danica Kragic Jensfelt 12 600 600 Sara Mazur 12 600 600 Daniel Nodhäll x 10 6 600 150 750 Bert Nordberg x 12 3 600 90 690 Erika Söderberg Johnson x 12 6 600 150 750 Joakim Westh x 12 6 600 225 825 1) Of a total of 12 meetings in 2018. 2) Of a total of 6 meetings of the Audit Committee in 2018 and 3 meetings of the Remuneration Committee in 2018. 3) Refers to the remuneration resolved by the AGM 2018 for the period until the AGM 2019. CEO Håkan Buskhe does not receive a remuneration. S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 71 A dmi n istratio n R eport The company's Auditor The Board’s report on internal control over financial reporting On behalf of the shareholders and in accordance with current laws and The Board of Directors is responsible for internal control over financial regulations, the external auditor examines the financial statements, reporting pursuant to the Swedish Companies Act and the Swedish consolidated accounts, annual report, and administration and manageCode of Corporate Governance. ment of the company by the Board of Directors and the CEO, and carThe Board assures the quality of the financial accounting through ries out the statutory audit of the corporate governance report and susthe Audit Committee and CEO. The entire Board reviews the interim tainability report. The company’s Q2 and Q3 interim reports have been reports before they are published. The Audit Committee follows up the reviewed by the auditor as well. The auditor presents an auditors’ report internal control over financial reporting on a regular basis. After each to the Annual General Meeting. In the prospectus for the MSEK 6,006 meeting of the Audit Committee, a report is submitted to the Board. rights issue, the company’s auditor issued an audit report on the outThe Audit Committee considers not only critical accounting issues look. On behalf of the Board, the company's auditor has also reviewed and the financial reports presented by the company, but also matters of whether the performance targets for the Special Projects Incentive strategic importance, e.g. asset acquisitions and sales and how the 2018 were met. company will obtain financing. It also covers issues such as internal The shareholders’ meeting elects the auditor. Pricewaterhouse­ control, regulatory compliance, any significant uncertainty in reported Coopers AB was re-elected as auditor by the Annual General Meeting values, post-statement events, changes in assessments and evalua2015, for the period 2015–2019. tions, and other circumstances that may affect the quality of the financial statements. The auditor, elected by the Annual General Meeting, PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) participated in all meetings of the Audit Committee in 2018. • Elected by the Annual General Meeting 2015 for the period 2015 The Board of Directors has met with the auditor to discuss their through the Annual General Meeting 2019. review of the company for the financial year 2018. The Board on the • Bo Hjalmarsson, Authorised Public Accountant, auditor in charge. Other same occasion met with the auditor while not in the presence of the audit assignments: Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson and SAS AB. CEO or other members of the Group Management. PricewaterhouseCoopers AB is a member of PwC’s global network in Internal control over financial reporting around 150 countries. PwC has competence and experience in areas The internal control system applies the principles of the Committee of important to Saab: auditing of large and listed companies, accounting Sponsoring Organizations' (COSO) framework and assists the business issues, industry experience and familiarity with international business. in achieving its financial goals by monitoring risk exposure in a strucThe Audit Committee is responsible for ensuring the independence tured way. Moreover, internal control aims to provide reasonable assurof the auditor, including by staying updated on ongoing consulting ance of the reliability of the internal and external financial reporting and assignments. The Audit Committee has also established guidelines on to ensure that it is prepared in accordance with laws, applicable which services other than auditing the company may procure from the accounting standards and other requirements for listed companies. auditor. Where applicable, the committee will approve such services in accordance with these guidelines. Control environment Internal control is based on Saab’s organisation, where operating Audit fees 2017–2018 responsibilities and powers are delegated to the business areas and Saab’s auditor receives a fee according to approved invoices as support units, which are also supported and monitored by Group funcresolved by the Annual General Meeting. tions. These Group functions issue guidelines that clarify responsibiliPwC performed limited services on behalf of the company in 2018 ties and powers. in addition to its audit assignments by consulting on accounting and tax Saab has a process for monitoring internal control where roles and issues. responsibilities are defined, control matrixes and key controls included, and reporting clarified. Auditor’s fees for the Group 2017–2018 MSEK 2018 2017 Risk assessment Saab’s operations are characterised by the development, production Audit assignments: and supply of technologically advanced hardware and software for PwC 22 20 ­military and civil customers around the world. The business largely Other 3 3 ­consists of large projects that stretch over long periods, often several Other assignments: years. Saab identifies and assesses risks with an impact on the financial PwC 5 3 reporting within a number of processes such as the annual accounts, For further information, see note 10. investments, project implementation and procurement. In addition to the risk of inaccurate financial reporting, internal processes are also assessed on the basis of the risk of exposure to improprieties. 72 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 A dmi n istratio n R eport Group Finance continuously coordinates an overall risk assessment of Monitoring and evaluation the financial reporting. The current risk assessment is reviewed by • Each manager of a business area/legal entity and each accounting Internal Audit and taken into account in the preparation of the annual organisation is responsible for the financial information from their unit. internal audit plan, which is established by the Audit Committee. • The Audit Committee decides on the principles for accounting and financial reporting and follows them up. Control activities • A semi-annual self-assessment focused on completed key controls. Key controls are defined within Saab’s internal processes and functions The self-assessment process also includes assessing whether the to monitor the internal control. There are also general IT key controls. material risks in each internal process are managed with existing key Key controls are performed according to a predefined schedule. The controls. control activities are both manual and automated and include authori8 • Saab’s Internal Audit reports directly to the Audit Committee and the sation routines, account reconciliations, process compliance, perforCFO. Internal Audit follows the internal audit plan adopted by the Audit mance analyses and authorisations. A web-based tool is used to manCommittee and performs independent and objective reviews in order age and document Saab’s key controls. to evaluate and increase the efficiency of the internal control. The function also performs an annual review of reporting from the self-assessInformation and communication ment process. Policies, Group directives and manuals are continuously updated, • The company’s auditor annually reviews the status of Saab’s internal clearly communicated and available through Saab’s internal enterprise control over financial reporting. management system, which is available on the internal web. A webbased tool used to monitor Saab’s key controls clearly shows the status and results of performed controls. The results of performed controls are an integral part of Saab’s financial closing process and are reported quarterly to the Group Management and the Audit Committee. S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 73 A dmi n istratio n R eport Board of Directors Standing from left: of ABB Cables AB and for Asea Cylinda; Seated from left: Production Manager for Asea Low Voltage Bert Nordberg Division; Asea central staff – Production Tina Mikkelsen Member of the Board since 2016 trainee Deputy Board member since 2016 Member of Saab’s Remuneration Committee President of the Local Salaried Employees’ Born 1956 Göran Gustavsson union, Unionen, at Saab AB, Järfälla Engineer Member of the Board since 2017 and Born 1973 Shares in Saab: 10,625 ­deputy member 1995-2000 and 2008–2016 Electrical Engineering, Stockholms Tekniska Other board commitments: President of the local trade union IF Metall at Institut (STI) Chairman of Vestas Wind Systems A/S Saab AB, Linköping Shares in Saab: 1,934 and TDC Group A/S; Board member of AB Born 1953 Electrolux, Svenska Cellulosa Aktiebolaget Employed by Saab AB since 1972 Stefan Andersson (SCA), Essity Aktiebolag (publ) and Sigma Shares in Saab: 2,935 Member of the Board since 2008 Connectivity AB Former employment and positions: President of the Local Salaried ­Employees’ Deputy board member of Resurstorget union Unionen at Saab Dynamics AB, Former employment and positions: Linköping Board member of Skistar AB and Axis AB; Sverige AB Born 1974 Chairman of Imagination Technologies B.Sc. Mechanical Engineering, Dalarna Group Plc. and Sony Mobile CommunicaNils Lindskog Member of the Board since 2016 and University tions AB; Chairman and CEO of Sony EricsShares in Saab: 2,369 son Communications AB; Various senior po­deputy member 2007–2015 sitions within the Ericsson group and various Member of the Local Swedish Association of Graduate Engineers at Saab AB, Gothenburg Marcus Wallenberg positions within Data General Corporation Chairman of the Board since 2006 and Digital Equipment Corporation Born 1955 M.S.E.E. from Chalmers University of Deputy Chairman 1993-2006 and Board Technology member since 1992 Sten Jakobsson Shares in Saab: 1,336 Member of Saab’s Remuneration Committee Member of the Board since 2008 and Born 1956 ­Deputy Chairman since 2010 B. Sc. of Foreign Service, Georgetown Erika Söderberg Johnson Chairman of Saab’s Remuneration University Member of the Board since 2017 ­Committee Lieutenant in Royal Swedish Naval Academy Member of Saab's Audit Committee Born 1949 Shares in Saab: 125,000 Chief Financial Officer (CFO), Biotage AB M.Sc. in Engineering, Royal Institute of Born 1970 Other board commitments: Technology (KTH) M.Sc. in Economics and Business, StockChairman of SEB and FAM AB; Board Shares in Saab: 6,875 holm School of Economics member of AstraZeneca PLC, Investor AB, Other board commitments: Shares in Saab: 250 Temasek Holding Ltd and the Knut and Alice Board member of Xylem Inc. and Arla Plast Wallenberg Foundation Other board commitments: AB Board member of Qliro Group AB and Domeij Former employment and positions: Former employment and positions: Consulting AB Chairman of AB Electrolux, LKAB and Chairman of Power Wind Partners AB and Svenska ICC Service AB; President and CEO Former employment and positions: LKAB; Board member of Stena Metall AB and of Investor AB; Board member of, amongst CFO of Karo Bio AB, Affibody AB and Global FLSmidth A/S; President and CEO of ABB others, Stora Enso Oyj, EQT Holdings AB and Genomics AB; Investment Banking Advisor Sweden; Executive Vice President of Asea Hi3G Holding AB at Enskilda, SEB; Board member of Sectra Brown Boveri AB, Sweden; Business Area AB and MedCap AB Manager, Business Area Cables; President 74 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 A dmi n istratio n R eport Standing from left: University and INRIA Rennes; Seated from left: Sara Mazur Chairman of IEEE RAS Technical Committee Member of the Board since 2013 Cecilia Stegö Chilò on Computer and Robot Vision; Håkan Buskhe Director of Strategic Research, Knut and Member of the Board since 2010 Board member of Research Policy ComMember of the Board since 2011 Alice Wallenberg Foundation Adviser to management of corporations mittee, KVA President and CEO of Saab AB since 2010 Born 1966 and organisations Born 1963 Associate Professor Electrical Engineering, Born 1959 Daniel Nodhäll M.Sc., Licentiate of Engineering, Royal Institute of Technology (KTH) Studies in political science and economics Member of the Board since 2017 Chalmers University of Technology Ph.D., Electrical Engineering, KTH Shares in Saab: 1,875 Member of Saab’s Audit Committee Shares in Saab: 68,425 M.Sc., Electrical Engineering, KTH Other board commitments: Head of Listed Core Investments, Other board commitments: Honorary Doctorate Luleå University of Chairman of Gotlands Bryggeri AB; Board Investor AB Board member of Nefab AB Technology member of Spendrups Bryggeri AB, InvestBorn 1978 Vice Chairman of AeroSpace and Defence Shares in Saab: 2,500 ment AB Spiltan and Centre for Business M.Sc. in Economics and Business, Industries Association of Europe (ASD) Other board commitments: History ­Stockholm School of Economics Former employment and positions: Deputy Chairman of Wallenberg AutonShares in Saab: 2,500 Former employment and positions: Board member of Vattenfall AB and of omous Systems and Software Program Chairman of Fortum Värme AB (now StockOther board commitments: the Association of Swedish Engineering (WASP); Board member of Investor AB, holm Exergi Holding AB); Board member Chairman of Invaw Invest AB, Board member Industries (Teknikföretagen); Chairman of Combient AB, Nobel Media AB and RISE of AMF Fonder AB, Länsförsäkringar Liv, of Husqvarna AB and Navigare AB Green Cargo AB; President and CEO of E.ON Research Institutes of Sweden AB; Member Linköpings Universitets Holding AB and Former employment and positions: Nordic AB and E.ON Sverige AB; Executive of the Royal Swedish Academy of EngineerMarginalen Group AB; CEO of the Free Board member of Kunskapsskolan EducaVice President of E.ON Sverige AB; Senior ing Sciences (IVA), Division Education and Enterprise Foundation of Sweden and Head tion Sweden AB; Investment Manager, Head Vice President of E.ON Sverige AB; CEO of Research of the think tank Timbro; Cabinet member of Capital Goods at Investor AB Land Operations, Schenker AG, Schenker Former employment and positions: and Head of the Ministry of Culture North and Schenker-BTL AB; CEO of Storel, Vice President and Head of Ericsson Conny Holm Carlsberg and Coca-Cola Distribution AB; Research, Ericsson AB; Vice President Danica Kragic Jensfelt Deputy board member since 2017 Production Director of Carlsberg Sverige System Management, Business Unit Member of the Board since 2017 and 1995–2008. Networks, Ericsson AB; Director Wireless Professor, School of Electrical ­Engineering Board member 2008–2016 Joakim Westh Access Networks Research, Ericsson and Computer Science, Royal Institute of Born 1947 Member of the Board since 2010 Research, Ericsson AB; Board member of Technology (KTH) Upper secondary engineering education Chairman of Saab’s Audit Committee Chalmers University of Technology AB, RISE Director of the Centre for Autonomous Shares in Saab: 977 Born 1961 SICS North Swedish ICT AB and Integrated Systems, KTH Other board commitments: M.Sc. in Aeronautics, Royal Institute of Transport Research Lab, KTH; Member of Born 1971 President of the local trade union IF Metall Technology (KTH) Skolstyrelsen, the Strategic Council of the Docent, Computer Science, KTH at Avionics Systems, Jönköping. Board M.Sc. in Aerospace Engineering, School of Electrical Engineering at KTH as Ph.D., Computer Science, KTH member of Metallica Invest AB ­Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) well as board of Wireless@KTH M.Sc., Mechanical Engineering, Technical Shares in Saab: 10,000 University of Rijeka, Croatia Former employment and positions: Member of County Administrative Board, Other board commitments: Auditor Honorary Doctorate, Lappeenranta Chairman of Amexci AB ­University of Technology Jönköping County PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Board member of CGI Inc., Absolent Group Shares in Saab: 1,250 AB and Swedish Match AB Magnus Gustafsson Bo Hjalmarsson Other board commitments: Deputy board member since 2016 Former employment and positions: Authorised Public Accountant, Board member of FAM AB and the Institute President of the Local Swedish Association Chairman of EMA Technology AB and auditor in charge for Future Studies and the Scientific Advisoof Graduate Engineers at Saab AB in ­Absolent AB; Board member of Arcam ry Board, Max Planck Institute for Intelligent Linköping AB, Intrum AB, Rörvik Timber AB, Telelogic Systems; Member of the Royal Swedish Information on shareholdings includes Born 1965 AB and VKR Holding A/S; Deputy board holdings of closely affiliated natural persons Academy of Engineering Sciences (IVA), M.Sc. in Applied Physics and Electrical ­member of Sony Ericsson Mobile CommuDivision of Electrical Engineering and in the and legal entities, where applicable. ­Engineering, Linköping Institute of Technications AB; Senior Vice President of Group Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences (KVA) nology Function Strategy & Operational Excellence Former employment and positions: Shares in Saab: 744 and member of Group Management Team, Deputy Director, School of Computer LM Ericsson AB; Group Vice President and Science and Communication, KTH; member of Executive Management Group Member of the Young Academy of Sweden; of Assa Abloy AB; Partner at McKinsey & Chairman of STINT, Natural Sciences Co. Inc. and Technology, Researcher at Columbia University, Brown University, Johns Hopkins S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 75 A dmi n istratio n R eport Group Management Standing from left: Ellen Molin Seated from left: Senior Vice President and Head of Jonas Hjelm Business Area Support and Services Görgen Johansson Senior Vice President and Born 1973 Senior Vice President and Head of Business Area Aeronautics MBA Head of Business Area Dynamics Born 1971 Employed 2006 Born 1964 Employed 2006 Shares in Saab: 3,503 MBA Shares in Saab: 6,822 Employed 2004 Sebastian Carlsson Shares in Saab: 12,081 Magnus Örnberg Senior Vice President and Head Executive Vice President and of Group Communication Christian Hedelin Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Born 1984 Chief Strategy Officer Born 1965 Employed 2012 Born 1969 MBA Shares in Saab: 627 MSc Electronic Engineering Employed 2012 Employed 2018 Shares in Saab: 18,978 Micael Johansson Shares in Saab: 0 Deputy CEO and Senior Executive Vice President Born 1960 B.Sc. Employed 1985 Shares in Saab: 13,325 76 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 A dmi n istratio n R eport Standing from left: Anders Carp Seated from left: Senior Vice President and Håkan Buskhe Head of Business Area Surveillance Lena Eliasson President and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Born 1971 Senior Vice President and Member of the Board of Saab AB since 2011 Employed 2001 Head of Group Human Resources Born 1963 Shares in Saab: 5,115 Born 1967 M.Sc., Licentiate of Engineering M.Sc. in Engineering Employed 2010 Jessica Öberg Employed 2012 Shares in Saab: 68,425 Senior Vice President and Shares in Saab: 12,002 Head of Industrial Products and Services Annika Bäremo Born 1972 Gunnar Wieslander Senior Vice President and Head of Group Employed 1996 Senior Vice President and Legal Affairs, General Counsel, Shares in Saab: 3,825 Head of Business Area Kockums Secretary of the Board of Directors Born 1962 Born 1964 Naval officer LLB Employed 2015 Employed 2012 Shares in Saab: 10,158 Shares in Saab: 10,757 The following changes in the Group During the first quarter, Ann-Kristin Ado­Management took effect during 2018: lfsson took over as Head of Saab Ventures and stepped down from Group Management and her role as Chief Strategy Officer. Christian Hedelin took over as the new Chief Strategy Officer in the fourth quarter and joined Saab’s Group Management. S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 77 A dmi n istratio n R eport Other information Guidelines on remuneration operations and profits. As a result, long-term a maximum of six months’ notice. If employand other terms of employment incentives are particularly well-suited to Saab ment is terminated by Saab the notice period for senior executives 2018 and its shareholders, and consist of shareis six months, after which severance equal to Pursuant to the Swedish Companies Act, the based incentive programmes. one year’s salary is paid. An additional year’s Board of Directors shall propose to the Annual The CEO and senior executives are entitled salary may be paid in the event no new General Meeting remuneration guidelines for to participate in the long-term share based employment is obtained during the first 18 the company’s senior executives. The Annual incentive programmes adopted by the sharemonths from the time notice of termination General Meeting 2018 adopted the Board’s holders’ meeting. was served. proposed guidelines for senior executives as One-off agreements on variable cash With respect to employment agreements described below. remuneration may be made in extraordinary signed after 1 January 2005 that are termiThe senior executives comprise the Chief circumstances, provided that such agreenated by Saab, a maximum severance pay of Executive Officer (CEO) and other members of ments are made solely on an individual basis 18 months may be payable in addition to the the Group Management. The members of this for recruitment or retention purposes or as normal six-month notice period. The notice group are presented on the company’s website. compensation for extraordinary efforts above period and severance pay in total shall not In special cases these guidelines apply to Saab and beyond the individual’s ordinary duties. exceed 24 months. AB Board members, as described below. Such remuneration shall never exceed the Severance pay is normally reduced by Saab shall offer market terms in order to fixed annual salary and shall not be paid more income from other employment during the recruit and retain senior executives. To the greatthan once a year per individual. Resolutions on corresponding time. est extent possible, remuneration structures such cash remuneration shall be made by the shall be characterised by predictability with Board based on a proposal from the RemunerConsulting fees to Board members respect to both the cost for the company and ation Committee. In special cases Saab AB’s shareholder-­ the benefit for the employee. They shall be Variable cash remuneration shall not be elected Board members may receive a fee for based on factors such as position, competence, paid under any other circumstances. services rendered within their respective experience and performance. Benchmarking areas of expertise, separately from their Board against comparable industries and markets shall Other benefits duties and for a limited period of time. be practiced. All members of the Group Management may ­Compensation for these services shall be paid The guidelines are primarily based on agreebe entitled to other benefits in accordance at market terms. ments in effect between Saab AB and individual with local practice. The benefits shall help to executives. No board fees are paid to members facilitate the executive's ability to discharge of Information in the Annual Report note 9 of the Group Management for participation on his or her duties. These benefits shall not conNote 9 of the Annual Report includes a the boards of the business areas or Saab’s substitute a material part of total compensation description of current remuneration for senior sidiaries. and shall be equivalent to what is considered executives, including fixed and variable The Remuneration Committee is responsible reasonable in relation to market practice. ­compensation, long-term incentive profor developing and reviewing remuneration and Other benefits may for example include a grammes and other benefits. other employment terms for the Group Managecompany car, travel, overnight accommodament. tion and medical insurance. Incentive programme proposed The Board is entitled to divert from the to the Annual General Meeting 2018 ­guidelines if there are reasonable grounds to do Pension The Board of Directors proposed that the so in specific cases. The retirement age is minimum 62 under penAnnual General Meeting 2018 resolve to These guidelines apply as of the Annual sion agreements entered into after 1 January adopt long-term incentive programme 2019 ­General Meeting 2018. 2005. In addition to the ITP agreement, the (LTI 2019), consisting of Share Matching Plan pension is premium based and provisions are 2019, Performance Share Plan 2019 and Fixed remuneration made annually. For the CEO the provision is ­Special Projects Incentive 2019. In addition to Cash remuneration shall consist of a fixed sallimited to 35 per cent of fixed salary. For other LTI 2019, it was proposed that the Annual ary. The fixed salary shall be reviewed annually senior executives the percentage is based on General Meeting also decide on Special as per 1 January for all members of the Group “Saab Plan” regulation. According to this plan, ­Projects Incentive 2018. The Annual General Management. Fixed salary shall be set at market the percentage is dependent on the number Meeting resolved in accordance with the terms and based on factors such as position, of years remaining until retirement age upon Board’s proposal. competence, experience and performance. joining the plan. The aggregate insurance ­balance should cover a targeted pension from Board of Directors proposal for guidelines Variable remuneration age 65 of approximately 32.5 per cent of for remuneration and other terms of Saab’s operations are dominated by the ­salary levels between 20 and 30 basic income employment for senior executives, development of complex products and sysamounts and approximately 50 per cent of applicable as of the Annual General tems. The products are marketed, further segments above 30 basic income amounts. Meeting 2019 developed, produced and maintained over All senior executives may also be entitled The Remuneration Committee has evaluated long periods – in some cases, three or four to enhanced disability pension and survivors’ the remuneration for Saab AB senior execudecades – and normally involve significant pension. tives, including variable remuneration, the investments and long-term relationships with application of the remuneration guidelines and customers around the world. It is important Other terms other employment terms for senior executives therefore that senior executives share a longAll Group Management executives, including resolved at the Annual General Meeting 2018, term view and commitment to the company’s the CEO, may terminate their employment with 78 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 A dmi n istratio n R eport and the current remuneration structures and covers a maximum of 175 key employees, tion in the Performance Share Plan or the remuneration levels in the company. including the CEO. Participants can save up to Share Matching Plan. The programme entitles The Remuneration Committee has recom7.5 per cent of their base salary to purchase the employee to allotment of performance mended that the Board of Directors propose Series B shares during a twelve-month period, shares corresponding to 15-52.5 per cent of that the Annual General Meeting approve while participating in the Share Matching Plan the cash base salary for the current financial remuneration guidelines with the same terms as well, but only up to a maximum of 5 per cent year depending on group affiliation, provided and conditions as those adopted by the of base salary. Depending on which category that the employment remains for three years Annual General Meeting 2018. Against this they belong to, participants are entitled to 2–7 and that performance targets are reached. backdrop, the Board of Directors proposes performance shares for each purchased Performance shares are allotted after three that the Annual General Meeting 2019 adopt share. years based on the achievement during the guidelines for remuneration and other terms Participants are entitled to performance current financial year of eight equally weighted of employment for senior executives with matching shares, free of consideration, performance targets related to Saab’s special unchanged terms and conditions. ­provided that the performance targets are projects within selected product areas. For the achieved and the participants have retained CEO and other members of the Group ManIncentive programme proposed the purchased shares for three years after the agement, the total allotment of shares in the to the Annual General Meeting 2019 investment date and remain employed by the new programme and the Performance Share The Board of Directors proposes that the Saab Group. The number of performance Plan together amounts to a maximum of 75 Annual General Meeting resolve to adopt shares is linked to the performance targets per cent of the cash base salary for the CEO long-term incentive programme 2020 (LTI established by the Board of Directors. The and 60 per cent of the cash base salary for the 2020), which consists of three parts: Share terms for the performance matching are other members of the Group Management. Matching Plan 2020, Performance Share Plan based on three independent targets for a According to the resolution of the 2018 2020 and Special Projects Incentive 2020. ­one-year performance period: organic sales Annual General Meeting, the plan covers a The terms and conditions and costs of the growth, EBIT margin and free cash flow. The maximum of 130,000 shares. above-mentioned programmes are presented relative apportionment between the targets is The number of matching and performance in the Board's complete proposal to the as follows: 30 per cent of the allotment is shares has been restated for affected proAnnual General Meeting. attributable to organic sales growth, 40 per grammes due to the rights issue. cent to EBIT margin and 30 per cent to free The Annual General Meeting 2018 also Saab’s long-term incentive programmes cash flow. The performance targets are estabresolved to authorise the Board of Directors to and authorisation to repurchase shares lished by the Board of Directors with a minidecide on acquisition of a maximum of The Annual General Meeting of Saab has mum and maximum level for each target. The 1,470,000 Series B shares to secure delivery resolved over a number of years to offer a Board of Directors will decide on the perforof shares to participants in Saab’s long-term long-term incentive programme consisting of mance matching after the end of the one-year Share Matching Plan, Performance Share Plan two parts: Share Matching Plan and a Perforperformance period. According to the resoluand Special Projects Incentive, for subsequent mance Share Plan. The reason is that the tion of the 2018 Annual General Meeting, the transfers on the stock exchange to cover Board considers it important that Saab’s Performance Share Plan comprises a maxi­certain costs associated with LTI 2019 and employees share a long-term interest in the mum of 310,000 shares. If the performance Special Projects Incentive 2018, mainly social appreciation of the company’s shares. outcome falls short of the maximum level but security costs. Repurchases may be made on In April 2017, the Annual General Meeting exceeds the minimum level, a linear proporNasdaq Stockholm. also resolved to introduce a third programme, tionate ­performance matching will occur. No Further, the Annual General Meeting 2018 Special Projects Incentive, as a complement performance matching will occur if the perforresolved to authorise the Board of Directors to to the Performance Share Plan. The promance outcome is equal to or below the minidecide on acquisition of Series B shares up to grammes are now named based on the calenmum level. Before the performance matching a maximum of 10 percent of the total number dar year, corresponding to the vesting period. is ­ultimately determined, the Board of Direcof shares in the company. The purpose of the The long-term incentive programme tors will assess whether it is reasonable in relaauthorisation is to be able to adjust the com­comprises not more than 1,340,000 Series B tion to the company’s financial results and pany’s capital structure and thereby contribshares in Saab per year. Since 2007, Saab position, conditions in the stock market and ute to an increased shareholder value as well offers permanent employees the opportunity other circumstances. If it determines that this as to enable a continuous use of acquired to participate in the Share Matching Plan. is not the case, the Board of Directors will shares in connection with potential acquisiEmployees can withhold up to 5 per cent of reduce the number of performance shares tions of companies and for the company’s their gross base salary to purchase Series B that will be matched to the lower number of share-related incentive programmes. Repurshares on Nasdaq Stockholm during a twelveshares it ­considers appropriate. Performance chases may be made on Nasdaq Stockholm. month period. Provided that a participant shares are allotted three years after the investIn June 2018, the Board of Directors retains the purchased shares for three years ment. Currently, Performance Share Plans resolved to utilise its authorisation to repurafter the investment date and is still employed 2014-2019 are ongoing. chase not more than 500,000 Series B shares by the Saab Group, the participant will be In 2017, the Annual General Meeting in Saab to secure delivery of shares to partici­allotted a corresponding number of Series B resolved to introduce a new plan, the Special pants in Saab’s long-term Share Matching shares free of charge. Currently, Share Projects Incentive, as a complement to the Plan, Performance Share Plan and Special ­Matching Plans 2014–2019 are ongoing. Performance Share Plan. The Special Projects Projects Incentive. Series B shares in Saab Since 2008, Saab also has a Performance Incentive is directed at a maximum of 45 key were repurchased in July and August 2018 for Share Plan for senior executives and key employees, including the CEO. Participation in MSEK 203. employees. The Performance Share Plan now the new programme ­presupposes participaS AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 79 fi n a n cial stateme n ts Financial statements and notes FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Income Statement, Consolidated 81 Income Statement, Parent Company 87 Statement of Comprehensive Income, Comprehensive Income, Parent Company 87 Consolidated 82 Balance Sheet, Parent Company 88 Statement of Financial Position, Consolidated 83 Statement of Changes in Equity, Statement of Changes in Equity, Consolidated 85 Parent Company 89 Statement of Cash Flows, Consolidated 86 Statement of Cash Flows, Parent Company 89 NOTES 1 Accounting principles 90 19 Shares in associated companies 36 Financial risk management 2 Assumptions in the application and joint ventures 110 and financial instruments 120 of the accounting principles 92 20 Parent Company’s shares in associated 37 Assets pledged and contingent ­liabilities 126 3 Segment reporting 92 companies and joint ventures 112 38 Transactions with related parties 126 4 Sales 94 21 Receivables from Group companies 112 39 Group companies 126 5 Operating expenses 95 22 Financial investments 112 40 Untaxed reserves 128 6 Other operating revenue and expenses 96 23 Other long-term securities holdings 112 41 Statement of cash flows, 7 Lease agreements 96 24 Long-term receivables supplemental information 128 and other receivables 113 42 Information on Parent Company 129 8 Government grants 97 25 Inventories 113 43 Environmental report 129 9 Employees and staff costs 97 26 Accounts receivable 114 44 Non-recurring items 130 10 Auditors’ fees and compensation 102 27 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 114 45 New accounting principles 2018 130 11 Depreciation/amortisation and write-downs 102 28 Liquid assets 114 46 New accounting principles 2019 132 12 Financial income and expenses 103 29 Shareholders’ equity 114 47 Exchange rates used in financial 13 Appropriations 103 30 Interest-bearing liabilities 115 statements 133 14 Taxes 103 31 Liabilities to credit institutions 115 48 Definitions of key ratios 133 15 Earnings per share 105 32 Post-employment benefits 116 49 Significant events after the conclusion of the period 133 16 Intangible fixed assets 106 33 Provisions 118 17 Tangible fixed assets 108 34 Other liabilities 120 18 Biological assets 110 35 Accrued expenses and deferred income 120 80 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 fi n a n cial stateme n ts Consolidated income statement MSEK Note 2018 2017 ORDERS Order bookings amounted to MSEK 27,975 (30,841). Sales 4 33,156 31,666 During the year, Saab received a large order for Gripen Cost of goods sold -25,392 -24,123 development and operational support in Sweden Gross income 7,764 7,543 worth MSEK 1,350. Bookings of medium-sized orders grew strongly, up 44 per cent compared to 2017 to Other operating income 6 156 104 MSEK 13,331 (9,234). Small orders amounted to Marketing expenses -2,644 -2,430 MSEK 12,057 (10,873). Administrative expenses -1,466 -1,493 In 2018, index and price changes had a positive Research and development costs -1,267 -1,348 effect on order bookings of MSEK 1,237, compared to MSEK 812 in 2017. Other operating expenses 6 -263 -87 The order backlog at year-end amounted to Share in income of associated companies MSEK 102,184, compared to MSEK 107,233 at the and joint ventures 19 -14 -39 beginning of the year. In total, 67 per cent of the order Operating income 2,266 2,250 backlog is attributable to markets outside Sweden. Financial income 193 121 Order backlog duration: Financial expenses -663 -272 2019: SEK 28.0 billion Net financial items 12 -470 -151 2020: SEK 20.6 billion 2021: SEK 18.1 billion Income before taxes 1,796 2,099 2022: SEK 13.3 billion Taxes 14 -430 -591 After 2022: SEK 22.2 billion Net income for the year 1,366 1,508 Attributable to: SALES GROWTH Parent Company’s shareholders 1,313 1,477 Per cent 2018 2017 Non-controlling interest 53 31 Organic sales growth 4 11 Earnings per share before dilution (SEK) 15 11,27 12,79 Acquisitions 1 – Earnings per share after dilution (SEK) 15 11,21 12,70 Total sales growth 5 11 SALES PER REGION SALES PER MARKET SEGMENT SALES Sales amounted to MSEK 33,156 (31,666). The MSEK 2018 2017 MSEK 2018 2017 increase is related to a high activity level within the Sweden 13,519 13,216 Air 15,776 14,787 major development projects Gripen NG to Brazil and Rest of Europe 4,768 4,496 Land 5,590 6,735 GlobalEye to the United Arab Emirates. In addition, Surveillance had strong growth in C4I solutions and North America 3,155 2,778 Naval 6,910 5,466 Kockums in surface combatants. Latin America 3,821 2,653 Civil Security 2,263 2,099 Sales from markets outside Sweden amounted to Asia 6,148 7,041 Commercial ­Aeronautics 1,689 1,765 MSEK 19,637 (18,450), corresponding to 59 per cent Africa 361 449 Other 928 814 (58), of total sales. 85 per cent (84) of sales related to Australia, etc. 1,384 1,033 the defence market. Total 33,156 31,666 Total 33,156 31,666 INCOME, MARGIN AND PROFITABILITY sation and write-downs of capitalised development as planned in the fourth quarter. For example, efficienThe gross margin in 2018 was 23.4 per cent (23.8). expenditures amounted to MSEK 184 (160). The share cies were implemented in the Barracuda business unit Gross income was at a somewhat lower level mainly of income in associated companies and joint ventures within Dynamics, and in the business areas Surveildue to changes in the project mix sales within amounted to MSEK -14 (-39). lance and Support and Services the product portfolio ­Kockums and Surveillance. Operating income amounted to MSEK 2,266 (2,250) has been modified. See note 44 for more information. Total depreciation, amortisation and write-downs with an operating margin of 6.8 per cent (7.1). Current and deferred taxes amounted to MSEK -430 amounted to MSEK 916 (839). Depreciation of tangible Adjusted for non-recurring items of MSEK 298, (-591), equivalent to an effective tax rate of 24 per cent fixed assets amounted to MSEK 612 (555). ­operating income amounted to MSEK 2,564 (2,250) (28). The announced corporate tax cut in Sweden led Total R&D expenditures amounted to MSEK 7,562 with an operating margin of 7.7 per cent (7.1). The to a lower tax rate due to the restatement of deferred (7,348), or about 23 per cent (23) of sales. Internally operating margin strengthened mainly in Aeronautics, taxes. funded R&D expenditures amounted to MSEK 2,223 which had a higher activity level within the Gripen The pre-tax return on capital employed was 8.7 per (2,059), of which MSEK 1,140 (871) was capitalised. ­programmes and lower costs related to T-X. cent (10.5) and the after-tax return on equity was 8.1 Capitalised expenditures are mainly attributable to the The non-recurring items are related to efficiency per cent (10.9), both measured over a rolling 12-month development of Gripen E/F for future exports. improvements to increase productivity, the main part period. Amortisation and write-downs of intangible fixed of which relates to workforce reductions. The measassets amounted to MSEK 304 (284), of which amortiures were initiated in the third quarter and progressed S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 81 fi n a n cial stateme n ts Consolidated statement of comprehensive income MSEK 2018 2017 Revaluation of net pension obligations has had a ­pre-tax effect of MSEK -1,711 (-190) on net Net income for the year 1,366 1,508 ­comprehensive income for the year, see note 32 for Other comprehensive income/loss: more information. The after-tax effect of net gain/­losses of cash flow Items that will not be reversed in the income statement: hedges on net comprehensive income amounted to Revaluation of net pension obligations -1,711 -190 MSEK -105 (494), see note 36 for more information. Tax attributable to revaluation of net pension obligations 308 43 Total -1,403 -147 Items that may be reversed in the income statement: Translation differences 173 -255 Net gain/loss on cash flow hedges: Change in value -548 106 Reversed through profit or loss 401 525 Tax attributable to net gain/loss on cash flow hedges 42 -137 Total 68 239 Other comprehensive income/loss for the year -1,335 92 Net comprehensive income/loss for the year 31 1,600 of which Parent Company’s shareholders’ interest -11 1,553 of which non-controlling interest 42 47 FINANCIAL NET MSEK 2018 2017 Financial net related to pensions -67 -69 Net interest items -96 -100 Currency gains/losses -226 54 Other net financial items -81 -36 Total 470 -151 The financial net related to pensions is the financial and loss. In 2018, net income was negatively affected cost for net pension obligations recognised in the by changes in the market value of derivatives related to ­balance sheet. See note 32 for more information hedged tenders mainly in USD. regarding defined-benefit pension plans. Other net financial items consist of unrealised Net interest items refer to the return on liquid assets results from the market valuation of short-term and short-term investments as well as interest ­investments and derivatives as well as other currency expenses on shortand long-term interest-bearing effects, e.g. changes in exchange rates for liquid ­liabilities and realised derivative results. assets in currencies other than SEK. Derivatives are Currency gains/losses recognised in the financial used to reduce interest rate risk in the investment net are mainly related to hedges of the tender port­ portfolio, which consists of long-term interestfolio, which are measured at fair value through profit ing-bearing securities. 82 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 fi n a n cial stateme n ts Consolidated statement of financial position MSEK Note 31-12-2018 31-12-2017 ASSETS Fixed assets: Intangible fixed assets 16 9,057 7,862 Tangible fixed assets 17 6,129 5,311 Biological assets 18 349 352 Shares in associated companies and joint ventures 19 646 700 Financial investments 22 27 26 Long-term receivables 24 554 662 Deferred tax assets 14 382 238 Total fixed assets 17,144 15,151 Current assets: Inventories 25 9,276 8,247 Derivatives 36 1,096 1,139 Tax receivables 67 26 Accounts receivable 26 5,199 4,342 Contract assets 4 10,466 8,000 Other receivables 24 507 522 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 27 919 900 Short-term investments 22 9,003 4,469 Liquid assets 28 2,451 2,202 Total current assets 38,984 29,847 TOTAL ASSETS 56,128 44,998 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity 29 Capital stock 2,174 1,746 Other capital contributions 6,099 543 Other reserves 72 -21 Retained earnings 11,067 11,829 Equity attributable to Parent Company’s shareholders 19,412 14,097 Non-controlling interest 221 188 Total equity 19,633 14,285 Liabilities Long-term liabilities: Long-term interest-bearing liabilities 30 8,196 6,235 Other liabilities 34 190 210 Provisions for pensions 32 5,113 3,424 Other provisions 33 1,081 1,024 Deferred tax liabilities 14 16 274 Total long-term liabilities 14,596 11,167 Current liabilities: Short-term interest-bearing liabilities 30 1,068 92 Contract liabilities 4 8,890 9,512 Accounts payable 4,077 2,958 Derivatives 36 1,234 1,093 Tax liabilities 147 120 Other liabilities 34 770 805 Accrued expenses and deferred income 35 5,097 4,483 Provisions 33 616 483 Total current liabilities 21,899 19,546 Total liabilities 36,495 30,713 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 56,128 44,998 For information on the Group’s assets pledged and contingent liabilities, see note 37. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 83 fi n a n cial stateme n ts Consolidated statement of financial position STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION mainly due to a reduction in the discount rate used to mainly related to investments to develop Gripen E/F for At the end of December 2018, net debt was MSEK calculate the pension obligation to 2.25 per cent from future exports. 1,460, a decrease of MSEK 374 compared to year-end 2.50 per cent during the year and an increase in the To secure the delivery of shares to participants in 2017, when net debt amounted to MSEK 1,834. inflation assumption to 2.00 per cent from 1.75 per Saab’s various share matching plans, the authorisation Cash flow from operating activities amounted to cent. For further information on Saab’s defined-benefrom the Annual General Meeting to repurchase shares MSEK -490. fit pension plans, see note 32. was utilised. During the year, series B shares were Accounts receivable increased by MSEK 857 Tangible fixed assets amounted to MSEK 6,129 at repurchased for MSEK 203. In addition, a dividend of during the year as several business areas had larger year-end. As of 1 January 2018, investment properties MSEK 588 was paid to the parent company’s sharedeliveries late in the year. are no longer recognised as a separate item but are holders. As of 31 December 2018, short-term investDue to the level of completion of large projects, included in tangible fixed assets. ments and liquid assets amounted to MSEK 11,454, an ­contract assets increased by MSEK 2,466 during the Net investments during the year amounted to increase of MSEK 4,783 compared to year-end 2017. year at the same time that contract liabilities approximately MSEK 2,796 (2,132). Funding of MSEK 3,820 was raised in 2018. For further decreased by MSEK 622. Investments in tangible fixed assets amounted to information on Saab’s liabilities to credit institutions, Inventories increased by MSEK 1,029 during the MSEK 1,481 (1,093). The increase is mainly related to see note 31. A rights issue was carried out in fall 2018. year. The increase mainly relates to future deliveries production capacity. For more information, see page 46. within Dynamics. Investments in intangible fixed assets amounted to Capital employed increased by MSEK 9,704 during Net provisions for pensions, excluding the special MSEK 1,338 (1,064), of which MSEK 1,140 (871) the year to MSEK 33,003. In addition to the proceeds employer’s contribution, amounted to MSEK 4,099 as related to capitalised R&D expenditures and MSEK of the rights issue, the increase is mainly related to the of 31 December 2018, compared to MSEK 2,646 at 198 (193) to other intangible fixed assets. level of completion within airborne surveillance and year-end 2017. The change had a negative effect on Capitalised development expenditures on the the Gripen programmes. net debt of MSEK 1,453. The increase in provisions is ­balance sheet increased by MSEK 968. The increase is NET LIQUIDITY/DEBT MSEK Note 31-12-2018 31-12-2017 Assets Liquid assets 28 2,451 2,202 Short-term investments 22 9,033 4,469 Total liquid investments 11,454 6,671 Short-term interest-­bearing receivables 24 14 Long-term interest-­bearing receivables 24 449 454 Long-term receivables ­attributable to pensions 24 6 40 Total interest-bearing assets 11,909 7,179 Liabilities Liabilities to credit ­institutions 30 8,759 5,798 The average net liquidity/debt during 2018 amounted Liabilities to associated companies and joint ­ventures 30 43 45 to MSEK -4,674 (-2,193). Net liquidity/debt excluding interest-bearing receivables and net pension obligaOther interest-bearing ­liabilities 30 462 484 tions amounted to MSEK 2,190 (344) on 31 December Provisions for pensions1) 32 4,105 2,686 2018. Total interest-bearing liabilities 13,369 9,013 Net liquidity (+) / debt (–) -1,460 -1,834 1) Excluding provisions for pensions attributable to special employers’ ­contribution. 84 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 fi n a n cial stateme n ts Consolidated statement of changes in equity Other reserves Other Total parent Ongoing capital Net result of Translacompany’s NonTotal shareCapital rights contribucash flow tion Revaluation Retained shareholders’ controlling holder’s MSEK stock issue tions hedges reserve reserve earings interest interest equity Opening balance, 1 January 2017 1,746 543 -779 525 11 11,110 13,156 145 13,301 Effects of change in accounting principles, IFRS15 -164 -164 -164 Adjusted opening balance, 1 January 2017 1,746 543 -779 525 11 10,946 12,992 145 13,137 Net comprehensive income/ loss for the year 477 -255 1,331 1,553 47 1,600 Transactions with shareholders: Share matching plan 111 111 111 Dividend -559 -559 -4 -563 Closing balance, 31 December 2017 1,746 543 -302 270 11 11,829 14,097 188 14,285 Opening balance, 1 January 2018 1,746 543 -302 270 11 11,829 14,097 188 14,285 Effects of change in accounting principles, IFRS 9 14 -18 -4 -4 Adjusted opening balance, 1 January 2018 1,746 543 -288 270 11 11,811 14,093 188 14,281 Net comprehensive income/ loss for the year -98 177 -90 -11 42 31 Transactions with shareholders: Rights issue 428 5,578 6,006 6,006 Issue costs -22 -22 -22 Repurchase of shares -203 -203 -203 Share matching plan 143 143 143 Dividend -588 -588 -13 -601 Acquisition and sale of non-controlling interest -6 -6 4 -2 Closing balance, 31 December 2018 1,746 428 6,099 -386 447 11 11,067 19,412 221 19,633 For a definition of other reserves, see note 29. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 85 fi n a n cial stateme n ts Consolidated statement of cash flows MSEK Note 2018 2017 CAPITAL EXPENDITURES The cash flow effect of capital expenditures in tangible Operating activities: fixed assets amounted to MSEK 1,481 (1,093). Income after financial items 1,796 2,099 Investments in intangible fixed assets amounted Adjustments for items not affecting cash flow 41 1,808 1,479 to MSEK 1,338 (1,064), of which MSEK 1,140 (871) Dividend from associated companies and joint ventures 39 26 was related to capitalised development costs and MSEK 198 (193) to other intangible fixed assets. Income tax paid -479 -272 Cash flow from operating activities before CASH FLOW changes in working capital 3,164 3,332 Cash flow from operating activities, excluding taxes Cash flow from changes in working capital: and other financial items, amounted to MSEK 372 Contract assets and liabilities -3,039 -718 (3,520), see note 41. Inventories -1,057 -972 Operational cash flow amounted to MSEK -2,424 Other current receivables -1,044 925 (1,388). It is defined as cash flow from operating ­activities excluding taxes and other financial items, as Other current liabilities 1,965 704 well as acquisitions and divestments of intangible and Provisions -479 -107 tangible fixed assets. Cash flow is negative mainly as a Cash flow from operating activities -490 3,164 result of increased capital employed in major projects Investing activities: and utilisation of previously received advances and milestone payments. Investments in intangible fixed assets -198 -193 Free cash flow amounted to MSEK -3,195 (852). For Capitalised development costs -1,140 -871 more detailed information on cash flow, see note 41. Investments in tangible fixed assets -1,481 -1,093 Saab has an established programme to sell trade Sales and disposals of tangible fixed assets 23 25 receivables in order to strengthen its financial position Investments in and sales of short-term investments -4,554 63 and increase financial flexibility. The programme has not been utilised since 31 December 2016. Saab’s aim Investments in financial assets -48 -30 is to utilise this programme in situations where greater Sale of financial assets 62 104 financial flexibility is needed. Investments in operations 41 15 -170 Sale of subsidiaries 41 33 Cash flow from investing activities -7,288 -2,165 Financing activities: Repayment of loans -967 -1,301 Raising of loans 3,820 1,700 Rights issue 5,967 Repurchase of shares -203 Dividend paid to Parent Company’s shareholders -588 -559 Dividend paid to non-controlling interests -24 -4 Transactions with non-controlling interests -14 Cash flow from financing activities 7,991 -164 CASH FLOW FOR THE YEAR 41 213 835 Liquid assets at beginning of year 2,202 1,402 Exchange rate difference in liquid assets 36 -35 Liquid assets at year-end 41 2,451 2,202 86 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 fi n a n cial stateme n ts Parent company income statement MSEK Note 2018 2017 SALES AND INCOME The Parent Company includes units within the Sales 4 20,998 19,890 ­business areas Aeronautics, Surveillance, Support Cost of goods sold -16,287 -15,480 and Services, and Industrial Products and Services Gross income 4,711 4,410 as well as one unit within Dynamics. Group staff and Marketing expenses -1,589 -1,428 Group support are also included. Administrative expenses -876 -953 Research and development costs -1,757 -1,701 Other operating income 6 53 49 Other operating expenses 6 -263 -22 Operating income 279 355 Result from financial items: 12 Result from shares in Group companies 941 525 Result from shares in associated companies and joint ventures 51 6 Result from other securities and receivables held as fixed assets 144 24 Other interest income and similar items 125 120 Interest expenses and similar items -51 -156 Income after financial items 1,489 874 Appropriations 13 -114 -11 Income before taxes 1,375 863 Taxes 14 -300 -216 Net income for the year 1,075 647 Parent company comprehensive income MSEK 2018 2017 Net income for the year 1,075 647 Other comprehensive income/loss: Items that may be reversed in the income statement: Translation differences -4 Other comprehensive income/loss for the year -4 Net comprehensive income/loss for the year 1,075 643 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 87 fi n a n cial stateme n ts Parent company balance sheet MSEK Note 31-12-2018 31-12-2017 LIQUIDITY, FINANCING, CAPITAL EXPENDITURES AND NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES ASSETS The Parent Company’s net debt amounted to MSEK Fixed assets 564 at 31 December 2018 compared to MSEK 3,418 at 31 December 2017. Intangible fixed assets 16 617 542 Investments in tangible fixed assets amounted to Tangible fixed assets 17 3,709 3,228 MSEK 857 (549). Investments in intangible assets Financial fixed assets: amounted to MSEK 187 (170). Shares in Group companies 39 6,181 6,065 At year-end, the Parent Company had 9,672 employReceivables from Group companies 21 68 81 ees, compared to 9,357 at the beginning of the year. Shares in associated companies and joint ventures 20 366 369 Receivables from associated companies and joint ventures 21 391 370 Other long-term securities holdings 23 25 23 Other long-term receivables 24 18 19 Deferred tax assets 14 148 106 Total financial fixed assets 7,197 7,033 Total fixed assets 11,523 10,803 Current assets Inventories 25 6,159 5,581 Current receivables: Tax receivables 15 Accounts receivable 26 2,250 1,907 Receivables from Group companies 3,540 2,248 Receivables from associated companies and joint ventures 12 1 Contract assets 8,548 6,734 Other receivables 24 409 397 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 27 2,053 1,158 Total current receivables 16,812 12,460 Short-term investments 9,000 4,459 Cash and bank balances 1,623 1,181 Total current assets 33,594 23,681 TOTAL ASSETS 45,117 34,484 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity 29 Restricted equity: Capital stock 2,174 1,746 Revaluation reserve 669 675 Statutory reserve 543 543 Unrestricted equity: Share premium reserve 5,556 Retained earnings 4,218 4,225 Net income for the year 1,075 643 Total equity 14,235 7,832 Untaxed reserves 40 2,405 2,291 Provisions Provisions for pensions and similar commitments 32 242 252 Other provisions 33 1,085 837 Total provisions 1,327 1,089 Liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions 31 8,758 5,798 Liabilities to Group companies 6,121 5,667 Contract liabilities 4 5,205 6,594 Accounts payable 2,908 1,854 Liabilities to associated companies and joint ventures 43 44 Tax liabilities 53 Other liabilities 34 607 560 Accrued expenses and deferred income 35 3,455 2,755 Total liabilities 27,150 23,272 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 45,117 34,484 For information on the Parent Company’s assets pledged and contingent liabilities, see note 37. 88 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 fi n a n cial stateme n ts Statement of changes in equity for the parent company Restricted equity Unrestricted equity Share Net compreCapital Ongoing Revaluation Statutory premium Retained hensive income Total MSEK stock rights issue reserve reserve reserve earings for the year equity Opening balance, 1 January 2017 1,746 682 543 4,676 7,647 Effects of change in accounting principles, IFRS15 -8 -8 Adjusted opening balance, 1 January 2017 1,746 682 543 4,668 7,639 Items reported directly in equity: Change in revaluation reserve -7 7 Net comprehensive income/loss for the year 643 641 Transactions with shareholders: Dividend -559 -559 Share matching plan 111 111 Closing balance, 31 December 2017 1,746 675 543 4,225 643 7,832 Opening balance, 1 January 2018 1,746 675 543 4,868 7,832 Effects of change in accounting principles, IFRS 9 -9 -9 Adjusted opening balance, 1 January 2018 1,746 675 543 4,859 7,823 Items reported directly in equity: Change in revaluation reserve -6 6 Net comprehensive income/loss for the year 1,075 1,075 Transactions with shareholders: Rights issue 428 5,578 6,006 Issue costs -22 -22 Repurchase of shares -203 -203 Dividend -588 -588 Share matching plan 143 143 Closing balance, 31 December 2018 1,746 428 669 543 5,556 4,218 1,075 14,235 Parent company statement of cash flows MSEK Note 2018 2017 Operating activities Income after financial items 1,489 874 Adjustments for items not affecting cash flow 41 182 832 Income tax paid -265 -156 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 1,406 1,550 Cash flow from changes in working capital Amounts due from and to customers -3,078 -857 Inventories -601 -524 Other current receivables -1,293 1,252 Other current liabilities 1,801 -153 Provisions -329 -116 Cash flow from operating activities -2,084 1,152 Investing activities Shareholders’ contributions paid/repaid -114 4 Investments in intangible fixed assets -186 -170 Investments in tangible fixed assets -858 -549 Sale of tangible fixed assets 2 15 Sale of and investments in short-term investments -4,562 55 Investments in financial assets -77 -100 Sale of financial assets 146 46 Investments in operations 4 -230 Sale of subsidiaries 16 Cash flow from investing activities -5,645 -913 Financing activities Change in receivables/liabilities from Group companies -537 -1,052 Raising of loans 3,820 1,700 Repayment of loans -860 -1,169 Rights issue 5,967 Repurchase of shares -203 Dividend paid to shareholders -588 -559 Group contributions and dividends received 582 1,371 Cash flow from financing activities 8,181 291 CASH FLOW FOR THE YEAR 442 530 Liquid assets at beginning of year 1,181 651 Liquid assets at year-end 41 1,623 1,181 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 89 fi n a n cial stateme n ts NOTE 1 ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES OPERATIONS transitioned to IFRS 9’s hedge accounting, which is an option in the standard. Saab AB is a Swedish limited company with its registered address in Linköping. The new rules on classifying financial assets do not entail any changes except The company’s Series B shares are listed on Nasdaq Stockholm’s large cap list. that a loan to an associated company according to IFRS 9 is recognised at fair The operations of Saab AB with its subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated value through profit or loss rather than at amortised cost. companies (jointly referred to as Saab or the Group) were divided into six busiFor transition effects in connection with the transition to IFRS 9, see note 45. ness areas in 2018: Aeronautics, Dynamics, Surveillance, Support and Services, For accounting principles, see note 36. Industrial Products and Services and Kockums. In addition, Corporate comprises Group staff, Group departments, and secondary operations. The operations in NEW AND AMENDED STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS each business area are described in note 3. THAT HAVE NOT YET ENTERED INTO FORCE On 25 February 2019, the Board of Directors and the President approved this IASB has issued the following new and amended standards that have not yet annual report and consolidated accounts for publication, and it will be presented entered into force: to the Annual General Meeting on 11 April 2019 for adoption. Standards Will apply to financial years beginning: CONFORMITY TO STANDARDS AND LAWS IFRS 16 Leases 1 January 2019 (adopted by EU) The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the ­International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) issued by the International IFRS 16 Leases will apply as of the financial year beginning 1 January 2019. Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and the interpretations of the International IFRS 16 is a new standard for recognition of lease agreements that replaces Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) as approved by the EU. IAS 17 Leases. For more information, see note 46. The consolidated accounts have also been prepared in accordance with the None of the other IFRS or IFRIC interpretations that have not yet entered into Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s recommendation RFR 1 Supplementary force are expected to have a material effect on the Group. Accounting Rules for Groups, which contains certain additional disclosure requirements for Swedish consolidated accounts prepared in accordance with IFRS. CLASSIFICATION OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES The annual report for Saab AB has been prepared according to the Annual Current assets and current liabilities generally consist of amounts that can be Accounts Act, the Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s recommendation RFR 2 recovered or paid within twelve months of the closing day. Other assets and Reporting by Legal Entities and the pronouncements of the Swedish Financial ­liabilities are recognised as fixed assets or long-term liabilities. Reporting Board. Differences between the accounting principles applied by the Parent Company and the Group are the result of limitations on opportunities to CONSOLIDATION PRINCIPLES apply IFRS by the Parent Company owing to the Annual Accounts Act, the Act Group companies on Safeguarding Pension Commitments and in certain cases current tax rules. Group companies are companies in which Saab AB has a decisive influence Significant differences are described below under “Significant differences through a direct or indirect shareholding amounting to more than 50 per cent of the between the Group’s and the Parent Company’s accounting principles.” votes, other than in exceptional circumstances where it can be clearly demonstrated that such ownership does not constitute a decisive influence. Decisive ASSUMPTIONS IN THE PREPARATION OF THE FINANCIAL REPORTS influence also exists when the parent owns not more than half of the voting power The Parent Company’s functional currency is Swedish kronor (SEK), which is also of an entity but otherwise has a decisive influence over more than half the voting the reporting currency for the Parent Company and for the Group. The financial rights or the power to govern the company’s financial and operating policies under reports are presented in SEK. All amounts, unless indicated otherwise, are rounded a statute or agreement. When determining whether a decisive influence exists, off to the nearest million. potential voting shares that can be exercised or converted without delay are taken The preparation of the financial reports in accordance with IFRS requires the into account. Board of Directors and Management to make estimates and assumptions that Subsidiaries and acquired operations (business combinations) are recognised affect the application of the accounting principles and the carrying amounts of according to the purchase accounting method. This means that a business assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses. Estimates and assumptions are based combination is treated as a transaction whereby the Group indirectly acquires the on historical experience and knowledge of the industry that Saab operates in, and business’s assets and takes over its liabilities and contingent liabilities. The under current circumstances seem reasonable. The result of these estimates and Group’s cost is determined through an acquisition analysis with regard to the assumptions is then used to determine the carrying amounts of assets and liabiliacquisition of operating entities. Cost is comprised of the sum of the fair value of ties that otherwise are not clearly indicated by other sources. Actual outcomes what of is paid in cash on the acquisition date through the assumption of liabilities may deviate from these estimates and assumptions. or shares issued. Contingent consideration is included in cost and recognised at Estimates and assumptions are reviewed regularly, and the effect of changed its fair value on the acquisition date. The subsequent effects of revaluations of estimates is recognised in profit or loss. contingent consideration are recognised in profit or loss. Acquired identifiable Estimates made by the Board of Directors and Management in applying the assets and assumed liabilities are initially recognised at their acquisition-date fair accounting principles in compliance with IFRS that may have a significant impact value. The exceptions to this principle are acquired tax assets/liabilities, employee on the financial reports as well as estimates that may necessitate significant benefits, share-based payment and assets held for sale, which are valued in adjustments in financial reports in subsequent years are described in more detail accordance with the principles described in respective note disclosure. in note 2. ­Exceptions are also made for indemnification assets and repurchased rights. The accounting principles described below for the Group and the accounting Indemnification assets are valued according to the same principle as the indemprinciples concerning significant profit /loss and balance sheet items described nified item. Repurchased rights are valued based on the remaining contractual in the respective note disclosure have been applied consistently for all periods period regardless of whether other market players might consider opportunities presented in the Group’s financial reports, unless otherwise indicated. for contract extensions in connection with valuations. Recognised goodwill consists of the difference between, on the one hand, the APPLICATION OF NEW AND REVISED ACCOUNTING RULES cost of Group company’s interests, the value of non-controlling interests in the The Group applied the new accounting standards IFRS 15 Revenue from acquired company and the fair value of the previously owned interest and, on the ­Contracts with Customers and IFRS 9 Financial Instruments for the first time in other, the carrying amount of the acquired assets and assumed liabilities in the the financial year 2018. IAS 8 and the transition rules in each standard have been acquisition analysis. Non-controlling interests are recognised on the acquisition applied for effects from changes in accounting principles. date either at fair value or their proportionate share of the carrying amount of the The transition to IFRS 15 has been fully retroactive and the comparative year acquired company’s identified assets and liabilities. Acquisitions of non-controlling 2017 is restated. For a few customer contracts, the method for recognition has interests are recognised as transactions affecting the owners’ equity. been adjusted. The main reason for the change is that a few long-term customer The financial reports of Group companies are included in the consolidated contracts cannot recognise revenue over time due to non-compliance with the accounts from the point in time when a decisive influence arises (acquisition date) right to payment including earnings for work performed. For accounting princiuntil this influence ceases. When decisive influence over the Group company ples, see note 4. ceases but the Group retains an interest in the company, the remaining shares are The transition to IFRS 9 has not had a material effect on the Group’s income initially ­recognised at fair value. The gain or loss that arises is recognised in profit or statement or financial position. Hedge accounting is not affected, but Saab has loss. 90 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 fi n a n cial stateme n ts Note 1, cont. Associated companies and joint ventures Employee benefits Associated companies are companies over which the Group has a significant, but The Parent Company complies with the provisions of the Law on Safeguarding of not decisive, influence. Joint ventures are companies that the Group, through a Pension Commitments and the regulations of the Swedish Financial Supervisory cooperative agreement with one of more parties, shares a decisive influence Authority, since this is a condition for tax deductibility. over. Associated company and joint venture are recognised according to the equity method in the consolidated accounts. See note 19 for further information. Untaxed reserves The amounts allocated to untaxed reserves constitute taxable temporary Eliminated transactions ­differences. Due to the connection between reporting and taxation, the deferred Intra-Group receivables and liabilities, revenue or expenses, and gains or losses tax liability is recognised in the Parent Company as part of untaxed reserves. that arise from transactions between Group companies are eliminated in their entirety in the preparation of the consolidated accounts. Group contributions and shareholders’ contributions Gains that arise from transactions with associated companies and joint venShareholders’ contributions are recognised directly in the equity of the recipient tures are eliminated to an extent corresponding to the Group’s ownership interest and capitalised in the shares and participating interests of the contributor, to the in the company. Losses are eliminated in the same way as gains, but only to the extent write-down is not required. Group contributions received are recognised extent that there is no impairment loss. through profit or loss in financial income and expenses. Group contributions paid are capitalised in the shares and participating interests of the parent, to the extent FOREIGN CURRENCY write-down is not required. Functional currencies are the currencies in each primary economic environment where units of the Group conduct their operations. Transactions and assets and liabilities in foreign currency Transactions in foreign currency are recognised in the functional currency at the exchange rate on the transaction day. Monetary assets and liabilities are translated to the functional currency on the closing day at the exchange rate then in effect. Exchange rate differences that arise through these translations are recognised in profit and loss. Non-monetary assets and liabilities recognised at fair value are translated to the functional currency at the rate in effect at the time of valuation at fair value. Changes in exchange rates are then recognised in the same way as other changes in value of the asset or liability. Translation of financial reports of foreign operations to SEK Assets and liabilities in operations with a functional currency other than SEK are translated to SEK at the closing day exchange rate. Revenue and expenses in ­foreign operations are translated to SEK at the average rate. Translation differences that arise through currency translations are recognised directly in other comprehensive income. The amount is recognised separately as a translation reserve in equity. SIGNIFICANT DIFFERENCES BETWEEN THE GROUP’S AND THE PARENT COMPANY’S ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES The Parent Company follows the same accounting principles as the Group with the following exceptions. Business combinations Transaction costs are included in the cost of business combinations. Associated companies and joint ventures Shares in associated companies and joint ventures are recognised by the Parent Company according to the acquisition cost method. Revenue includes dividends received. Intangible fixed assets All development costs are recognised in profit or loss. Tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are recognised after revaluation, if necessary. Financial assets and liabilities and other financial instruments The Parent Company carries financial fixed assets at cost less write-down and financial current assets according to the lowest value principle. If the reason for write-down has ceased, it is reversed. The Parent Company does not apply the rules for setting off financial assets and liabilities. Derivatives and hedge accounting Derivatives that are not used for hedging are carried by the Parent Company ­according to the lowest value principle based on net value of different portfolios. For ­derivatives used for hedging, recognition is determined by the hedged item. This means that the derivative is treated as an off balance sheet item as long as the hedged item is recognised at cost or is not included on the balance sheet. Receivables and liabilities in foreign currency hedged with forward contracts are valued at the forward rate. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 91 fi n a n cial stateme n ts NOTE 2 ASSUMPTIONS IN THE APPLICATION OF THE ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES The Board of Directors and Group Management together have identified the follow­ Recovery of value of development costs ing areas where estimates and assumptions in the application of the accounting The Group has invested significant amounts in research and development. The principles may have a significant impact on the accounting of the Group’s results reported amounts in the statement of financial position are primarily due to developof operations and financial position and may result in significant adjustments ment projects relating to the airborne early warning and control system, GlobalEye, and in subsequent financial reports. Developments in these areas are monitored an export version of Gripen. Capitalised development costs amount to MSEK 3,328 ­continuously by Group Management and the Board of Directors’ Audit Committee. (2,360). The recognition of development expenditures as an asset on the statement of financial position requires an assumption that the product is expected to be technically UNCERTAINTIES IN ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS and commercially usable in the future and that future economic benefits are likely. Long-term customer contracts Depreciation of capitalised development costs is made on a straight-line basis over A majority of all long-term customer contracts contain significant development the period of use, up to a maximum of 10 years. The period of use is reviewed annually, aspects, which are associated with risks. Before a contract is signed with a customer which may result in necessitate impairment. See note 16 for further information. on delivery of a product or service, a thorough analysis is always made of the pre­ requisites and risks of the delivery through a project management process estabImpairment testing of goodwill lished within Saab. In the execution stage, continuous reviews are made of the work In the calculation of cash-generating units’ recovery value to determine whether in the project according to the same process. there is a need or impairment of goodwill, assumptions have been made with regard An important aspect is to identify risks and assess them and the measures that to the calculation of value in use, based on discounted cash flow projections. are taken to mitigate the risks with the help of a risk assessment method. A significant deviation in the conditions could necessitate impairment of goodwill. The Group recognise revenue over time for long-term contracts. An estimation of The carrying amount for goodwill amounts to MSEK 5,310 (5,177). See note 16 for total costs including an estimation of technical and commercial risks is critical in further information. ­revenue recognition. Changed estimations of the projects’ total costs cause retroactive effects that affect sales and revenue recognition. Today several of Saab’s Pensions major projects are still under development phase, which means greater uncertainSaab has two types of pension plans: defined-benefit and defined-contribution. In ties in risks to take into consideration in revenue recognition and estimation of total defined-benefit plans, post-employment compensation is based on a percentage costs. The accounting of long-term customer contracts also affects balance sheet of the recipient’s salary. The present value of defined-benefit obligations amounts to items such as contract assets and contract liabilities, accounts receivables, MSEK 10,752 (9,341). The value of the pension obligation is determined through a ­inventories and project loss provisions. Making delivery according to project plan number of actuarial assumptions, because of which the obligation can significantly and milestones are important for the cash flow since ­payments are made upon increase or decrease if the actuarial assumptions change. Changes in actuarial achievement of milestones or deliveries in projects. See note 4 for more information gains and losses directly affect the pension obligation and hence the Group’s regarding long-term customer contracts. financial position. See note 32 for further information. NOTE 3 SEGMENT REPORTING OPERATING SEGMENTS Surveillance Saab is a leading high-technology company, with its main operations in defence, Surveillance provides efficient solutions for safety and security, for surveillance and aviation and civil security. Operations are primarily focused on well-defined areas in decision support, and for threat detection, location, and protection. The portfolio defence electronics and missile systems as well as military and commercial aviation. covers airborne, ground-based and naval radar, electronic warfare, combat systems Saab is also active in technical services and maintenance. Saab has a strong position in and C4I solutions. Sweden and the main part of sales is generated in Europe. In addition, Saab has a local presence in South Africa, Australia, the US and other selected countries globally. Support and Services Segment information is presented based on management’s view, and operating Support and Services offers reliable, cost-efficient service and support for all of segments are identified based on internal reporting to the company’s chief Saab’s markets. This includes support solutions, technical maintenance and ­operating decision maker. Saab has identified the Chief Executive Officer as its chief ­logistics as well as products, solutions and services for military and civil missions. operating decision maker, while the internal reports used by the CEO to oversee operations and make decisions on allocating resources serve as the basis of the Industrial Products and Services information presented. The segments are monitored at the operating income level. The business units within Industrial Products and Services are focused on mainly The accounting principles for reportable segments conform to the principles civilian customers. The wholly owned, independent subsidiary Combitech are applied by the Group as a whole. Sales of goods and services between segments included in the business area. are made on market terms. Saab’s operations are divided into six business areas, which are also operating segments: Kockums • Aeronautics Kockums develops, delivers, and maintains world-class solutions for naval environ• Dynamics ments. Its portfolio includes submarines with the Stirling system for air independent • Surveillance propulsion, surface combatants, mine hunting systems and autonomous ­vessels. • Support and Services Kockums’ unique competence is in signature management, impact strength and • Industrial Products and Services advanced stealth technology. • Kockums Significant non-recurring items not affecting cash flow The business areas are described below. Complementing the six segments is During 2018, no significant non-recurring items not affecting cash flow were ­Corporate, which comprises Group staffs and departments as well as other ­recognised. ­non-core operations. Information on large customers Aeronautics In 2018, Saab had one customer that accounted for 10 per cent or more of the Aeronautics is a world-leading manufacturer of innovative aerial systems and is Group’s sales: the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration (FMV). FMV is a ­customer engaged in development of military aviation technology. It also conducts long-term of all business areas and total sales amounted to MSEK 10,521 (10,695) in 2017. future studies of manned and unmanned aircraft as preparation for new systems and further development of existing products. Information on geographical areas External sales are distributed to the market where the customer is domiciled, while Dynamics fixed assets are distributed to the market where the asset is geographically located. Dynamics offers a market-leading product portfolio comprising ground combat weapons, missile systems, torpedoes, unmanned underwater vehicles, systems for training and simulation, signature management systems for armed forces around Seasonal variation the world, and niche products for the civil and defence markets. A major part of Saab’s business is related to large projects where the revenue is ­recognised by using recognise revenue over time in relation to reprocessing. The costs incurred in these projects are normally lower during the third quarter ­compared with the other quarters. The fourth quarter is also usually affected by a higher number of deliveries, mainly within Dynamics. 92 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 fi n a n cial stateme n ts Note 3, cont. Industrial Support and Products and Group Aeronautics Dynamics Surveillance Services Services Kockums Corporate Eliminations Group MSEK 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 External order bookings 5,060 2,811 7,084 8,450 7,202 6,691 3,513 6,080 4,006 4,688 1,108 2,120 2 27,975 30,841 Internal order bookings 201 484 224 165 168 357 122 119 1,338 1,154 15 9 -2,068 -2,287 Total 5,261 3,295 7,308 8,615 7,370 7,048 3,635 6,199 5,344 5,842 1,123 2,129 2 -2,068 -2,287 27,975 30,841 External order backlog 47,316 49,940 13,477 11,379 14,532 14,420 10,634 12,470 9,694 10,270 6,645 8,814 -113 -61 102,184 107,233 Internal order backlog 43 214 168 218 199 344 56 43 1,310 1,427 1 1 -1,778 -2,246 Total 47,359 50,154 13,645 11,597 14,731 14,764 10,690 12,513 11,004 11,697 6,646 8,815 -113 -61 -1,778 -2,246 102,184 107,233 External sales 7,684 6,830 5,042 5,458 7,082 6,366 5,336 5,680 4,654 4,497 3,275 2,704 83 131 33,156 31,666 Internal sales 372 437 277 159 315 267 134 138 1,453 1,138 16 8 -2,567 -2,147 Total sales 8,056 7,267 5,319 5,617 7,397 6,633 5,470 5,818 6,107 5,635 3,291 2,712 83 131 -2,567 -2,147 33,156 31,666 Operating income before share in income of associated companies and joint ­ventures 695 477 487 645 631 632 685 702 203 117 160 157 -581 -441 2,280 2,289 Share in income of associated companies and joint ventures -15 1 48 35 -1 -1 13 -59 -74 -14 -39 Operating income 680 478 535 680 631 632 685 702 202 116 173 157 -640 -515 2,266 2,250 Financial income 1 3 4 17 13 1 3 34 1 266 195 -130 -93 194 121 Financial expenses -94 -81 -55 -48 -71 -58 -33 -32 -44 -30 -9 -8 -488 -108 130 93 -664 -272 Income before taxes 587 397 483 636 577 587 652 671 161 86 198 150 -862 -428 1,796 2,099 Taxes1) -142 -69 -68 -104 -95 -98 4 -45 -58 -31 -35 -32 -36 -212 -430 -591 Net income for the year 445 328 415 532 482 489 656 626 103 55 163 118 -898 -639 1,366 1,509 Assets 9,879 8,556 7,152 6,213 14,763 12,033 5,103 5,402 6,338 5,864 4,379 3,797 28,081 21,019 -19,567 -17,886 56,128 44,998 Of which shares in associated companies and joint ­ventures 78 86 223 177 4 4 1 23 341 409 646 700 Liabilities 9,084 8,122 4,978 4,128 9,115 7,220 3,071 3,552 4,539 3,921 3,278 2,815 14,287 11,397 -11,857 -10,442 36,495 30,713 Operational cash flow -1,096 1,264 -120 1,105 -1,085 -60 369 126 -351 -296 251 206 -392 -957 -2,424 1,388 Capital employed 3,110 2,191 3,774 3,232 7,781 6,103 3,307 3,222 4,515 4,178 1,181 1,016 9,335 3,357 33,003 23,299 Investments 917 413 187 155 589 544 121 274 67 75 65 101 873 595 2,819 2,157 Depreciation 56 50 75 85 273 293 69 19 88 97 30 23 325 272 916 839 1) Current taxes in the Parent Company are reported in Corporate Geographical areas Group Sweden Rest of Europe North America Latin America Asia MSEK 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 External sales 13,519 13,216 4,768 4,496 3,155 2,778 3,821 2,653 6,148 7,041 as % of sales 41 42 14 14 10 9 12 8 19 22 Fixed assets 15,450 13,527 449 412 495 466 2 4 143 143 Group Africa Australia, etc. Total MSEK 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 External sales 361 449 1,384 1,033 33,156 31,666 as % of sales 1 1 4 3 100 100 Fixed assets 469 469 136 130 17,144 15,151 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 93 fi n a n cial stateme n ts Note 3, cont. Sales by operating segment stones or deliveries. An expected loss is recognised in profit or loss as soon as it Parent Company is identified. MSEK 201 8 2017 Aeronautics 7,691 6,836 Products A percentage of Saab’s revenue is attributable to products where development, Dynamics 1,326 1,163 customisation and integration are relatively minor and relates for the most part Surveillance 5,305 5,107 only to the manufacture of products, as well as the resale of spare parts, for Support and Services 4,800 5,447 ­example. Revenue from these contracts is recognised at a given point in time, i.e. Industrial Products and Services 1,876 1,337 normally when control of the good has transferred to the customer in accordance Total 20,998 19,890 with the terms of the contract. Service assignments Sales by geographical market For Saab’s service assignments, which include the sale of consulting hours and Parent Company support services, at a fixed price or on current account, the customer normally MSEK 2018 2017 obtains the benefits when the obligation is satisfied. Revenue is mainly recogSweden 8,707 8,785 nised over time as the assignment is performed according to the contract. Rest of Europe 2,789 2,661 North America 1,688 1,406 Saab is active in the military defence market as well as the commercial aircraft and Latin America 3,653 2,550 security market. In 2018, sales of defence materiel accounted for 85 per cent (84) of Asia 3,818 3,964 Saab’s sales. Saab’s international sales represent more than half of its total operaAfrica 211 319 tions and as a rule entail considerable sums that stretch over long periods of time. Australia, etc. 132 205 In 2018, 59 per cent (58) of Saab’s sales was to markets outside Sweden. A large share of Saab’s sales comes from a limited number of customers and Total 20,998 19,890 ­relatively few contracts. The European market including Sweden is Saab’s most important market. The Swedish Defence Material Administration (FMV) is Saab’s most important customer, accounting for 32 per cent (34) of Saab’s sales in 2018. NOT 4 SALES Saab’s operations are distinguished by complex, multi-year development assignments on the cutting edge of technology. In its long-term customer projects, Saab implements and delivers cost-efficient high-tech solutions in accordance with the customer contract. The contract model for major development projects according ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES to which Saab is often engaged in development work is complex and entails risks. Sales Contracts are often signed where the customer orders a product with specifications The IASB standard IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers has been on its features and which problems it will solve. Saab then commits to deliver in applied as of 1 January 2018. IFRS 15 replaces IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 accordance with the specifications and produces the required product or system. ­Construction Contracts. IFRS 15 has a uniform model for all revenue recognition Consequently, when contracts are signed, the product in some cases has not been based on a contract for the sale of a good or service between two parties. The developed and will normally be delivered several years later. Most of the contracts company then recognises the revenue when it satisfies the obligation to deliver are signed with a fixed-price component. In 2018 Long-term customer contracts the promised goods or services to the customer, which means that revenue is accounted for 64 per cent (64) of total sales. recognised when the customer obtains control over the good or service and has The majority of Saab’s sales relates to projects that in most cases are recognised the ability to use or obtain the benefits from the good or service. The main in revenue and income over time. This places high demands on project planning and ­principles of revenue recognition are based on a five-step model: control as well as monitoring to ensure that at any given time the commitments and estimates of project costs and revenue provide a satisfactory basis for recognition 1. Identify the contract of sales and income. Saab continuously updates cost estimates for long-term 2. Identify the performance obligations ­customer contracts, which has a retroactive effect, both positive and negative, on 3. Determine the transaction price sales. The impact of retroactive effects during the year was insignificant in relation to 4. Allocate the transaction price to each obligation sales. Approximately 80 percent of sales is recognised over time in pace with project 5. Recognise revenue when the obligation is satisfied. completion. Accounting for long-term customer contracts affects balance sheet items such Long-term customer contracts as contract assets and contract liabilities as well as accounts receivable, for which A large part of the Group’s operations involves long-term customer contracts for the customary payment terms are applied. Many of Saab’s large contracts with the development and manufacture of complex systems that stretch over several ­customers are based on a payment model according to which the majority of the reporting periods. The analysis of these contracts according to the five-step payment is not made until or after the product or system has been delivered or parmodel has mainly meant determining the number of performance obligations tially delivered. Saab has several large customer projects in the development phase. (step 2) and when they are fulfilled (step 5), i.e. over time or at a given point in time. Due to the level of completion of major projects, contract assets increased by Since Saab’s long-term customer contracts involve considerable customisaMSEK 2 466 during the year at the same time that contract liabilities decreased by tion and integration of goods and services, it usually means that a performance MSEK 622. Opening contract liabilities as of 1 January 2018 were practically all obligation has been identified. A performance obligation is satisfied according to ­recognised in revenue in the financial year. the standard at a given point in time or over time. If a performance obligation is Provision for guarantees in connection with sold products or services is normally satisfied over time, one of the following criteria must be met: a) the customer recognised if a reliable calculation of the provision can be made; see note 33 for must obtain immediate benefits when the obligation is satisfied, b) the company’s ­further information. performance creates or improves an asset that the customer controls, or c) the The Group has no significant commitments or obligations relating to product company’s performance does not create an asset with an alternative use to the returns. company and the company has the right to payment for costs incurred to date, including profit, in the event that the customer terminates the contract for Future revenue from long-term customer contracts ­reasons other than the company’s failure to perform as promised. The order backlog is expected to be realised and recognised as revenue according Since Saab’s long-term customer contracts involve considerable customisato the following table: tion and integration of goods and services and because the cost to adapt the asset and sell it to a new customer would not be insignificant, the conclusion is that the asset is not deemed to have an alternative use. Since the contracts also Order backlog duration: contain clauses that include the right to payment plus a reasonable profit for MSEK 2018 2017 costs incurred, it means that the criteria for recognising long-term customer conWithin 1 year 27,954 25 ,371 tracts over time are satisfied. Revenue and costs are recognised in in the income Within 2 years 20,647 19,995 statement as before in relation to the contract’s stage of completion. The stage of completion is based on a determination of the relationship Within 3 years 18,138 16,991 between expenditures incurred for services rendered as of the closing day and Within 4 years 13,282 17,000 estimated total expenditures to satisfy the contract. Of the total revenue, the 4 years and forward 22,163 27,876 ­portion corresponding to the stage of completion is recognised in each period. Total 102,184 107,233 The stage of completion can also be determined in certain cases based on mile94 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 fi n a n cial stateme n ts Note 4, cont. Support Industrial and ­Products and Corporate/ Aeronautics Dynamics Surveillance Services Services Kockums elimination Group MSEK 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Sales per customer: Military customers 7,679 6,824 4,723 5,182 7,018 6,256 4,458 4,653 886 887 3,275 2,704 80 126 28,119 26,632 Civilian customers 5 6 319 276 64 110 878 1,027 3,768 3,610 3 5 5,037 5,034 Total external sales 7,684 6,830 5,042 5,458 7,082 6,366 5,336 5,680 4,654 4,497 3,275 2,704 83 131 33,156 31,666 Sales by significant source: Long-term customer contracts 6,967 6,219 1,935 2,044 4,926 4,699 2,237 2,411 2,513 2,329 2,512 2,375 81 131 21,171 20,208 Services 701 602 613 646 1,443 1,277 2,535 2,740 1,937 1,817 731 329 7,960 7,411 Products 16 9 2,494 2,768 713 390 564 529 204 351 32 2 4,025 4,047 Total external sales 7,684 6,830 5,042 5,458 7,082 6,366 5,336 5,680 4,654 4,497 3,275 2,704 83 131 33,156 31,666 Sales by domain: Air 7,684 6,824 289 341 3,757 3,255 3,624 3,941 367 338 55 88 15,776 14,787 Land 6 3,313 3,908 1,083 1,494 808 788 386 539 5,590 6,735 Naval 1,239 1,032 2,153 1,527 207 150 8 10 3,275 2,704 28 43 6,910 5,466 Civil Security 192 177 42 32 188 158 1,841 1,732 2,263 2,099 Commercial Aeronautics 1 486 643 1,202 1,122 1,689 1,765 Other 9 46 58 23 850 756 928 814 Total external sales 7,684 6,830 5,042 5,458 7,082 6,366 5,336 5,680 4,654 4,497 3,275 2,704 83 131 33,156 31,666 Sales recognition method: Over time 7,667 6,777 2,397 1,987 6,058 5,117 4,146 4,448 2,822 2,689 3,222 2,657 81 131 26,393 23,806 Point in time 17 53 2,645 3,471 1,024 1,249 1,190 1,232 1,832 1,808 53 47 2 6,763 7,860 Total external sales 7,684 6,830 5,042 5,458 7,082 6,366 5,336 5,680 4,654 4,497 3,275 2,704 83 131 33,156 31,666 Sales by customer Parent Company NOTE 5 OPERATING EXPENSES MSEK 2018 2017 Military customers 18,593 17,532 Civilian customers 2,405 2,358 Operating expenses The income statement is classified according to function as follows: Total 20,998 19,890 Cost of goods sold comprises costs for material handling and manufacturing costs, including salary and material costs, purchased services, premises, and the Sales by significant source Parent Company depreciation/amortisation and write-down of intangible and tangible fixed assets other than self-financed capitalised development cost (see below). Customer-­ MSEK 2018 2017 financed research and development is recognised in cost of goods sold. Long-term customer Administrative expenses relate to expenses for the Board of Directors, Group contracts 15,488 14,651 Management and staff functions as well as expenses attributable to business Services 4,361 4,293 area and business unit managements. Products 1,149 946 Marketing expenses comprise expenses for the in-house marketing and sales Total 20,998 19,890 organisation as well as external marketing and selling expenses. Research and development costs are recognised separately and comprise the Sales by domain cost of self-financed new and continued product development as well as amortiParent Company sation of capitalised development costs. MSEK 2018 2017 Air 15,374 14,409 Operating expenses classified by the type of cost, excluding other operating income Land 2,121 2,436 and expenses, are distributed as follows: Naval 1,251 870 Civil Security 589 457 Group Commercial Aeronautics 1,663 1,718 MSEK 2018 2017 Total 20,998 19,890 Materials and components 7,535 7,148 Purchased services 4,037 3,916 Sales recognition method Personnel costs 13,524 12,604 Parent Company Depreciation/amortisation and write-downs 1,039 884 MSEK 2018 2017 Other external costs 4,634 4,842 Over time 17,335 15,802 Total 30,769 29,394 Point in time 3,663 4,088 Total 20,998 19,890 Depreciation/amortisation and write-downs include write-downs and reversal of write-downs on inventory. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 95 fi n a n cial i n formatio n NOTE 6 OTHER OPERATING REVENUE NOTE 7 LEASE ­AGREEMENTS AND EXPENSES ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES Leasing is classified in the consolidated accounts as either finance or operating Other operating revenue and expenses leasing. Finance leasing exists when the economic risks and benefits tied to ownOther operating revenue and expenses relate to secondary activities, exchange ership are essentially transferred to the lessee; otherwise it is operating leasing. rate differences on items of an operating nature, changes in the value of ­derivatives of an operating nature and capital gains/losses on the sale of tangible fixed assets. Also included at the Group level are capital gains/losses on the sale Leasing fees for assets obtained via operating leases of subsidiaries and associated companies and joint ventures. Leasing fees refer mainly to premises, computers and cars. The Group also has a finance lease on a building and an aircraft, see note 17. Group Parent Company Group MSEK 2018 2017 2018 2017 Premises­ and Machinery­ and MSEK buildings equipment ­ Gain on sale of transfer activity 30 30 Outcome Exchange rate gains 2017 344 157 on operating ­ 2018 411 185 receivables/liabilities 29 10 Contracted Gain from other operating activities 21 20 2019 378 150 Gain on sale of Group 2020 313 75 ­companies 16 2021 265 26 Capital gain on realised 2022 225 3 ­accumulated translation 2023 206 1 ­differences 12 15 2024 and forward 1,163 Gain on sale of associated companies 11 Total contracted 2,550 255 Government grants 4 9 3 7 Insurance compensation 3 17 2 10 Parent Company Gain on sale of tangible Premises­ and Machinery­ and fixed assets 2 6 2 6 MSEK buildings­ equipment Trading results 1 8 8 Outcome Gain from revaluation 2017 250 108 of earn out liability 7 2018 280 121 Other 27 22 6 18 Contracted Total 156 104 53 49 2019 289 83 2020 256 38 Trading result refers to the result in Saab Treasury from trading in interest rate and currency instruments according to the risk mandate approved by the Board of 2021 221 12 ­Directors; see note 36. 2022 200 1 Other operating activities consist of results from subsidiaries that fall outside core 2023 190 operations and net rental income from property rentals. 2024 and forward 1,129 Total contracted 2,285 134 Other operating expenses Group Parent Company MSEK 2018 2017 2018 2017 Restructuring costs -200 -200 Change in value of derivatives and exchange rate losses on operating receivables/ l­iabilities -18 -55 -9 Loss on sale and disposal of ­tangible and intangible fixed assets -16 -22 -12 -13 Capital gain on realised accumulated translation ­differences -8 Loss from other operating ­activities -3 -2 Provision environmental reserve1) -48 Other -18 -8 -3 Total -263 -87 -263 -22 1) Enivromental reserve previously reported in the Group company Lansen Försäkrings AB has been transfered to the Parent Company during 2018. Other operating activities consist of results from subsidiaries that fall outside core operations. 96 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 fi n a n cial i n formatio n NOTE 8 GOVERNMENT GRANTS ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES Gender distribution of corporate management Parent Company Saab receives government grants, mainly various grants from EU related to research and development projects. These are recognised when there is Share of women, per cent 2018 2017 ­reasonable certainty that the grant will be received and that the Group will meet Board of Directors 40 40 the conditions associated with the grant. Government grants are systematically Other senior executives 31 38 ­recognised in the income statement in the same way and over the same periods as the expenses for which the grants are intended to compensate. Government grants related to assets are recognised in the statement of financial position Salaries, other remuneration and social security expenses as a reduction in the asset’s carrying amount. 2018 2017 Salaries Social Salaries Social For 2018, MSEK 121 (36) has been received. MSEK 99 (34) has been recognised and other security and other security MSEK remuneration expenses remuneration expenses through profit or loss by reducing research and development expenditures and as other operating income. In the statement of financial position at year-end, MSEK 51 Parent Company 5,218 2,506 4,914 2,482 (29) is recognised as prepaid income. of which pension Saab and the Ministry of Enterprise, Energy and Communications have reached costs1) 853 924 an agreement with the National Debt Office to co-finance Saab’s participation in the Group companies 4,396 1,404 4,055 1,153 Airbus A380 project. The co-financing is in the form of a royalty loan maximised at of which pension MSEK 350. Repayment will take the form of a royalty on each delivery to Airbus. costs2) 582 408 Through 2018, the National Debt Office has paid out a net amount of MSEK 263 Group, total 9,614 3,910 8,969 3,635 (263). The debt as of 31 December 2018 amounted to MSEK 130 (132), which reduces inventory in the financial statements. of which pension costs3) 1,435 1,332 No contingent liabilities or contingent assets are reported. 1) Of the Parent Company’s pension costs, MSEK 9 (14) referred to the Parent Company’s Board and President, including deputies and Executive Vice President. The company’s outstanding pension obliNOTE 9 EMPLOYEES AND STAFF COSTS gations for these individuals, amount to MSEK 13 (19), of which MSEK 13 (19) referred to former Board members and President, including deputies and Executive Vice Presidents. 2) Adjustment according to different accounting principles regarding defined-benefit plans between Parent Company and Group. See notes 1 and 32 for more information. The average number of employees in 2018 amounted to 16,520 (15,935), of whom 3) Of the Group’s pension costs, MSEK 20 (22) referred to the Group’s and Group companies’ Boards 77 per cent (78) were men. A complete list of the number of employees by country and Presidents. The Group’s outstanding pension obligations for these individuals amounted to MSEK has been sent to the Swedish Companies Registration Office and can be down13 (19), of which MSEK 13 (19) referred to former board members and Presidents. loaded at www.saabgroup.com, Investor, Financial Data. Salaries and other remuneration distributed between Board members, Average number of employees1) President and Executive Vice Presidents and other employees 2018 of whom men 2017 of whom men 2018 2017 Parent company Board, Board, President and President and Sweden 9,016 77% 8,837 78% Executive Vice Other Executive Vice Other Rest of Europe 44 89% 61 80% MSEK Presidents employees Presidents employees North America 9 100% 19 68% Parent Company 32 5,186 31 4,883 Latin America 24 83% 23 83% Group companies 84 4,312 70 3,985 Asia 52 83% 67 90% Group, total 116 9,498 101 8,868 Africa 44 89% 49 92% Parent company, total 9,189 77% 9,056 78% Of the salaries and remuneration paid to other employees in the Group, MSEK 29 (30) referred to senior executives other than Board members, the President and Group companies Executive Vice Presidents. Sweden 4,370 78% 4,075 78% For information on post-employment benefits, see note 32. Rest of Europe 880 81% 870 81% North America 703 74% 653 75% SENIOR EXECUTIVES’ BENEFITS Latin America 33 70% 24 63% Remuneration to Board members In accordance with the resolution of the Annual General Meeting, the fees paid to Asia 145 78% 141 78% members of the Board, for the term April 2018 – April 2019, amount to Africa 814 71% 797 71% SEK 6,625,000 (6,180,000), consisting of SEK 1,750,000 (1,550,000) to the ChairAustralia, etc 386 82% 319 82% man, SEK 675,000 (640,000) to the Deputy Chairman and SEK 600,000 (570,000) Group companies, total 7,331 77% 6,879 77% to each of the other members elected by the Annual General Meeting, with the Group, total 16,520 77% 15,935 78% ­exception of the President. For audit committee work during the term April 2018 – April 2019, committee 1) The average number of employees has been calculated as an average of the number of Full Time chairman Joakim Westh also received a fee of SEK 225,000 (225,000) and Equivalents (FTE). The term Full-Time Equivalents excludes long-term absentees and consultants. Fixed term employees and probationers are however included in the calculation. ­committee members Erika Söderberg Johnson and Daniel Nodhäll each received a fee of SEK 150,000 (150,000). For remuneration committee work, during the term April 2018 – April 2019, committee chairman Sten Jakobsson also received a fee of SEK 150,000 (135,000) and committee members Marcus Wallenberg and Bert Nordberg each received a fee of SEK 90,000 (80,000). Remuneration to Board members and committee members recognised as cost for fiscal year 2018 is shown in the table on page 99. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 97 fi n a n cial i n formatio n Note 9, cont. Remuneration to the President As of November 2008, all eligible executives participate in Saab’s Performance The remuneration to the President and CEO consists of a fixed salary. No short-term Share Plans resolved by each Annual General Meeting from 2009 through 2018 as variable remuneration is paid. The preparation process for compensation issues well as the Share Matching Plans 2011–2018. regarding the President is handled by the Board’s Remuneration Committee As of November 2017, all eligible executives participate in Saab’s Special Projects ­according to the principles laid down by the Annual General Meeting and then voted Incentive, a complement to the Performance Share Plan, approved by each Annual on by the Board. General Meeting from 2017 through 2018. In December 2017, the one-year per­ Håkan Buskhe has participated since 1 September 2010 in the Performance formance period concluded for Saab’s Special Projects Incentive 2017. The Board Share Plans approved by each Annual General Meeting from 2009 through 2018 determined that seven of the eight performance targets had been met, resulting in and in the Share Matching Plans for 2011-2018. As of May 2017, Håkan Buskhe has an outcome of 87.5 per cent. Performance shares will be allotted in May 2020. In participated in Saab’s Special Projects Incentive resolved by each Annual General December 2018, the one-year performance period concluded for Saab’s Special Meeting from 2017 through 2018 as a complement to the Performance Share Plan Projects Incentive 2018. The Board determined that eight of the eight performance 2016. In December 2017, the one-year performance period concluded for Saab’s targets had been met, resulting in an outcome of 100 per cent. Performance shares Special Projects Incentive 2017. The Board determined that seven of the eight will be allotted in February 2021. ­performance targets had been met, resulting in an outcome of 87.5 per cent. Per­ Outstanding matching rights in Saab’s Performance Share Plan and Share Matchformance shares will be allotted in May 2020. In December 2018, the one-year pering Plan 2014 amounted as of 31 December 2018 to SEK 591,956 (2,882,456) at formance period concluded for Saab’s Special Projects Incentive 2018. The Board estimated outcomes, in Saab’s Performance Share Plan and Share Matching Plan determined that eight of the eight performance targets had been met, resulting in an 2015 to SEK 3,868,426 (2,423,750) at estimated outcomes, in Saab’s Performance outcome of 100 per cent. Performance shares will be allotted in February 2021. Share Plan and Share Matching Plan 2016 to SEK 2,743,496 (703,555) at estimated Outstanding matching rights in Saab’s Performance Share Plan and Share Matchoutcomes, in Saab’s Performance Share Plan and Share Matching Plan 2018 to SEK ing Plan 2014 amounted to SEK 512,953 (2,462,517) as of 31 December 2018 at 1,333,523 at estimated outcomes and Saab’s Special Projects Incentive 2017 to estimated outcomes and in Saab’s Performance Share Plan and Share Matching SEK 3,935,661 (2,623,774) and Saab’s Special Projects Incentive 2018 to SEK Plan 2015 to SEK 3,301,254 (1,882,252) at estimated outcomes. Corresponding 4,075,205 at estimated outcomes. ­figures for Saab’s Performance Share Plan and Share Matching Plan 2016 are In 2018, other senior executives received salaries and other benefits totalling SEK 1,665,484 (422,275) at estimated outcomes, for Saab’s Performance Share SEK 55,148,280 (50,679,766), of which other benefits, including share related plans, Plan and Share Matching Plan 2018 are SEK 654,059 at estimated outcomes and amounted to SEK 16,010,185 (9,739,628). Saab’s Special Projects Incentive 2017 are SEK 1,971,485 (1,314,323) and Saab’s Special Projects Incentive 2018 are SEK 1,574,625 at estimated outcomes. Pension terms During the period 1 January through 31 December 2018, Håkan Buskhe received As of 1 January 2005, a pension age of 62 years applies to all other senior execu­ salary and other benefits totalling SEK 21,852,742 (18,814,165), of which other tives. However, two persons have a pension age according to existing law and ­benefits, including share related plans, amounted to SEK 7,745,450 (5,106,662). collective agreement. In addition to ITP, 10 members (10) of the group are affiliated with the Saab plan, Pension terms which is defined-contribution and vested. The Saab plan provides pension benefits The retirement age for the President is 62 years. The President has a defined-­ in addition to ITP or its equivalent on salary levels between 20 and 30 basic amounts contribution pension plan and may decide himself on the payment term, though as well as on salary segments over 30 basic amounts. The individuals themselves within the provisions of Swedish income tax law. The pension cost for Saab consists can decide on the payment term, though within the provisions of Swedish income of pension premiums amounting to 35 per cent of the fixed salary. Pension tax law. Moreover, an insurance policy finances the period between the agreed ­premiums are paid as long as the President remains an employee of the company, ­pension age, 62 years, and 65 years. but not beyond the age of 62. The pension cost for Saab consists of pension premiums, which are based on To this is added the cost of pension premiums according to the ITP plan. a percentage of qualifying salaries. The percentage rate is determined by each The pension commitment is vested. executive’s time remaning untill agreed pension age, 62 years, when joining the plan. For 2018, the cost of Håkan Buskhe’s pension, including ITP, was SEK 5,111,922 The aggregate insurance balance should cover a targeted pension from 65 years of (4,979,931). approximately 32.5 per cent of salary levels between 20 and 30 basic amounts and approximately 50 per cent of segments over 30 basic amounts of qualifying salaries. Severance terms Premium payments continue as long as the individuals remain in their positions or as If terminated by the company, the President will receive a salary and pension employees of the company. ­benefits for a period of six months (period of notice). Thereafter he will receive severPension obligations are vested. In 2018, pension costs for other senior execu­ ance pay equivalent to one year of salary, based on his current fixed salary. If the tives, including ITP and its equivalent, amounted to SEK 14,518,065 (14,748,622). President does not obtain new employment, he will receive an additional six months Other senior executives are entitled, or obliged if the company so requests, to of severance pay. The severance will be deducted from income received from other retire on pension as of the agreed retirement age of 62 years. employment during the same period. If the President resigns voluntarily, there is a six-month period of notice with salary and pension benefits, but no severance pay. Severance terms and severance pay The President’s agreement includes a non-compete clause. If terminated by the company, the group of other senior executives normally rece­ives salary and pension benefits for six months (period of notice). Thereafter 10 senior Remuneration to other senior executives executives receive severance pay, according to agreement, equivalent to a The group of other senior executives included 12 individuals (12) at 31 December ­maximum of 18 months of salary, based on their fixed salary. Severance is paid 2018: the Executive Vice Presidents, the Heads of the Business Areas and the monthly with the first payment in the month after the employment has ended. Heads of Group staffs. At 31 December 2018, Group Management was comprised ­Severance is not paid for the period falling after the contractual pension age. of Håkan Buskhe (President), Micael Johansson, Magnus Örnberg, Görgen Executives hired before 1 January 2005 who have reached the age of 55 are ­entitled ­Johansson, Anders Carp, Jonas Hjelm, Gunnar Wieslander, Christian Hedelin, Ellen to an additional six months of severance. Together, the term of notice and severance Molin, Annika Bäremo, Jessica Öberg, Sebastian Carlsson och Lena Eliasson. may not exceed 24 months. The remuneration paid to other senior executives consists of a fixed salary. No The severance will be deducted from income received from other employment short-term variable remuneration is paid. Compensation issues regarding the other during the same period. If they resign voluntarily, there is a six-month period of senior executives are prepared by the Head of Group Human Resources and notice with salary and pension benefits, but no severance pay. ­presented to the President, who makes a decision pending the approval of the ­Compensation Committee and the Board. Other benefits Of the other senior executives, one individual received cash settlements of a All senior executives have a company car and medical insurance. non-recurring nature upon recruitment according to a resolution 2018. An amount Several senior executives also have benefits in the form of overnight housing and totalling SEK 850,500 will be paid during a period of 36 months from the start of travel. employment. The payments are made monthly in the form of pension premiums and are conditional upon the recipients not giving notice of termination of employment. SEK 47,250 has been paid during 2018. 98 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 fi n a n cial i n formatio n Note 9, cont. Summary of compensation and other benefits during 2018 Outstanding matching rights in Base salary/ Variable Share share related Board and compensation related Other Pension plans at estimated SEK committee fee remuneration plans3) ­benefits2) cost Total outcomes3) Chairman of the Board Marcus Wallenberg 1,787,500 1,787,5001) Deputy Chairman Sten Jakobsson 812,500 812,500 Other Board members Sara Mazur 592,500 592,5001) Cecilia Stegö Chilò 592,500 592,5001) Joakim Westh 817,500 817,5001) Bert Nordberg 680,000 680,0001) Danica Kragic Jensfelt 592,500 592,500 Daniel Nodhäll 742,500 742,500 Erika Söderberg Johnson 742,500 742,5001) President and CEO Håkan Buskhe 14,107,292 7,571,858 173,592 5,111,922 26,918,251 9,679,861 Other senior executives 39,090,845 47,2504) 14,004,527 2,005,658 14,518,065 69,567,770 16,548,267 Total 60,558,137 47,250 21,576,385 2,179,250 19,629,987 103,846,021 26,228,128 1) Social security costs are additional, since the fees are invoiced through a limited company. Board members who invoice their Board and Committee fees through a limited company may on their invoices add social security contributions. The social security contributions included in the invoiced amount may not exceed the employer’s contribution that the company otherwise would have paid. 2) Including compensation for the additional costs incurred due to the benefits. 3) Share related plans relate to Share Matching Plans, Performance Share Plans and Special Projects Incentive. 4) Including remuneration to one senior executives, which, as agreed, was paid in the form of pension premiums. Guidelines for remuneration and other benefits for senior executives are described in the administration report. Summary of compensation and other benefits during 2017 Outstanding matching rights in Base salary/ Share share related Board and related Pension plans at estimated SEK committee fee plans3) Other ­benefits2) cost Total outcomes3) Chairman of the Board Marcus Wallenberg 1,600,000 1,600,0001) Deputy Chairman Sten Jakobsson 753,750 753,750 Other Board members Sara Mazur 567,500 567,5001) Johan Forssell 173,750 173,750 Per-Arne Sandström 190,000 190,0001) Cecilia Stegö Chilò 567,500 567,5001) Lena Treschow Torell 173,750 173,7501) Joakim Westh 770,000 770,0001) Bert Nordberg 627,500 627,5001) Danica Kragic Jensfelt 427,500 427,500 Daniel Nodhäll 540,000 540,000 Erika Söderberg Johnson 540,000 540,0001) President and CEO Håkan Buskhe 13,707,503 4,970,946 135,716 4,979,931 23,794,096 6,635,730 Other senior executives 40,940,138 7,918,850 1,820,788 14,748,622 65,428,388 9,266,537 Total 61,578,891 12,889,796 1,956,494 19,728,553 96,153,734 15,902,267 1) Social security costs are additional, since the fees are invoiced through a limited company. Board members who invoice their Board and Committee fees through a limited company may on their invoices add social security contributions. The social security contributions included in the invoiced amount may not exceed the employer’s contribution that the company otherwise would have paid. 2) Including compensation for the additional costs incurred due to the benefits. 3) Share related plans relate to Share Matching Plans, Performance Share Plans and Special Projects Incentive. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 99 fi n a n cial i n formatio n Note 9, cont. SHARE-BASED PAYMENT Performance shares are allotted three years after the investment. Currently, ­Performance Share Plans 2014-2019 are ongoing. ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES In 2017 the Annual General Meeting decided to introduced a new programme, the Share-based payment refers solely to remuneration to employees, including Special Projects Incentive, as a complement to the Performance Share Plan. The ­senior executives. Share-based payment settled with the company’s shares or programme is directed at a maximum of 45 key employees, including the President. other equity instruments is comprised of the difference between the fair value at Participation in the new programme presupposes participation in the Performance the time these plans were issued and the consideration received. This remuneraShare Plan or the Share Matching Plan. The programme entitles the employee to tion is recognised as staff costs during the vesting period. To the extent the allotment of performance shares corresponding to 15-52.5 per cent of the cash ­vesting conditions in the plan are tied to market factors (such as the price of the base salary for the current financial year depending on group affiliation, provided company’s shares), they are taken into consideration in determining the fair value that the employment remains for three years and that performance targets are of the plan. Other conditions (such as earnings per share) affect staff costs during reached. Performance shares are allotted after three years based on the achievethe vesting period by changing the number of shares or share-related instrument during the current financial year of eight equally weighted performance targets ments that are expected to be paid. related to Saab’s special projects within selected product areas. For the ­President Saab has a Share Matching Plan where all permanent employees are entitled to and other members of the Group Management, the total allotment of shares in the participate. The payroll expenses for matching shares in the plan are recognised new programme and the Performance Share Plan together amounts to a maximum during the vesting period based on the fair value of the shares. The employees of 75 per cent of the cash base salary for the President and 60 per cent of the cash pay a price for the share that corresponds to the share price on the investment base salary for the other members of the Group Management. According to the date. Three years after the investment date, employees are allotted as many Annual General Meeting 2018 the programme comprises a maximum of 130,000 shares as they purchased three years earlier, provided that they are still employshares. ees of the Saab Group and that the shares have not been sold. In certain counNumber of matching and performance shares have been restated for the tries, social security expenses are paid on the value of the employee’s benefit ­programs in accordance with the rights issue. when matching takes place. During the vesting period, provisions are allocated 1) Adjusted for acquisitions and divestments as well as exchange rate ­differences. for these estimated social security expenses. Share repurchases to fulfil the 2) Adjusted for acquisitions and divestments as well as non-recurring items. commitments of Saab’s Share Matching Plans are recognised in equity. 3) Adjusted for acquisitions and divestments as well as non-recurring items. In addition, there is a Performance Share Plan for senior executives and other key employees that entitles them to performance shares, depending on the EVENTS 2018 employee category to which they belong, as well as a Special Projects Incentive, 2014 Share Matching Plan and Performance Share Plan as a complement to the Performance Share Plan. The plans entitle the employee In the Share Matching Plan, shares have been matched three times in 2018 and to performance shares depending on group affiliation, provided that they are still once in February 2019. After the end of the one-year performance period for the employed after three years and that the performance targets were met. Performance Share Plan 2014, on 31 December 2015, it was determined that the targets had partly been achieved and the Board of Directors approved performance Long-term incentive programme match­ing as follows. Performance matching took place three times in 2018 and The Annual General Meeting of Saab has resolved for a number of years to offer a once in February 2019. ­long-term incentive programme consisting of three parts: a Share Matching Plan, a Performance Share Plan and a Special Projects Incentive . The Board considers it Outcome Performance Reported performance important that Saab’s employees share a long-term interest in the appreciation of the Share Plan 2014 outcome targets, % Weighted,% Allotment, % company’s shares. The plans are now designated by calendar year, which corresponds to the savings period. The long-term incentive programme comprises not more than Organic sales growth 11% 73 30 22 1,340,000 Series B shares in Saab per year. EBIT margin1) 6.7% 60 40 24 Since 2007, Saab offers permanent employees the opportunity to participate in the Free cash flow 2) MSEK -807 30 Share Matching Plan. Employees can withhold up to 5 per cent of their gross base Total allotment 46 ­salary to purchase Series B shares on Nasdaq Stockholm during a twelve-month 1) Adjusted for acquisitions and divestments as well as non-recurring items, including restructuring period. Provided that a participant retains the purchased shares for three years after costs related to the reorganisation of the former business area Security and Defence Solutions the investment date and is still employed by the Saab Group, the participant will be for the full year 2015. allotted a corresponding number of Series B shares free of charge. Currently, Share 2) Previously named operating cash flow. Adjusted for acquisitions and divestments of operations, Matching Plans 2014–2019 are in place. group and associated companies. Since 2008, Saab also has a Performance Share Plan for senior executives and key employees. The Performance Share Plan covers a maximum of 175 key employ2015 Share Matching Plan and Performance Share Plan ees, including the President. Participants can save up to 7.5 per cent of their base In the Share Matching Plan, shares will be matched three times in 2019 and once salary to purchase Series B shares during a twelve-month period, while participating in February 2020. After the end of the one-year performance period for the in the Share Matching Plan as well, but only up to a maximum of 5 per cent of base ­Performance Share Plan 2015, on 31 December 2016, it was determined that the salary. Depending on which category they belong to, participants are entitled to 2–7 targets had partly been achieved and the Board of Directors approved performance performance shares for each ­purchased share. Participants are entitled to matching matching as follows. Performance matching will take place three times in 2019 and of performance shares, free of consideration, provided that the performance targets once in February 2020. are achieved and the participants have retained the purchased shares for three years after the investment date and remain employed by the Saab Group. Outcome The number of performance shares is linked to the performance targets estabPerformance Reported performance lished by the Board of Directors. The terms for the performance matching are based Share Plan 2015 outcome targets, % Weighted,% Allotment, % on three independent targets for a one-year performance period: organic sales Organic sales growth 5% 73 30 22 growth1), EBIT margin2) and free cash flow3). The relative apportionment between EBIT margin 6.3% 10 40 4 the targets is as follows: 30 per cent of the allotment is attributable to organic sales Free cash flow MSEK 2,359 100 30 30 growth, 40 per cent to EBIT margin and 30 per cent to free cash flow. The performance targets are established by the Board of Directors with a minimum and maxiTotal allotment 56 mum level for each target. The Board of Directors decides on the performance matching after the end of the one-year performance period. According to the Annual 2016 Share Matching Plan and Performance Share Plan General Meeting 2018 the Performance Share Plan comprises a maximum of 310,000 In the Share Matching Plan, shares will be matched three times in 2020 and once shares. If the performance outcome falls short of the maximum level but exceeds the in February 2021. After the end of the one-year performance period for the minimum level, a linear proportionate performance matching will occur. No perfor­Performance Share Plan 2016, on 31 December 2017, it was determined that the mance matching will occur if the performance outcome is equal to or below the minitargets had partly been achieved and the Board of Directors approved performance mum level. Before the performance matching is ultimately determined, the Board of matching as follows. Performance matching will take place three times in 2020 and Directors will assess whether it is reasonable in relation to the company’s financial once in February 2021. results and position, conditions in the stock market and other circumstances. If it determines that this is not the case, the Board of Directors will reduce the ­number of performance shares that will be matched to the lower number of shares it ­considers appropriate. 100 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 fi n a n cial i n formatio n Note 9, cont. Outcome 2019 Share Matching Plan, Performance Share Plan Performance Reported performance and Special Projects Incentive Share Plan 2016 outcome targets, % Weighted,% Allotment, % In April 2018, Saab’s Annual General Meeting resolved as in previous years to offer employees the opportunity to participate in a Long-Term Incentive Programme, LTI Organic sales growth 10% 58 30 17 2019, consisting of a Share Matchning Plan, a Performance Share Plan and a Special EBIT margin 6.9% 40 Projects Incentive with the same terms as previous programmes. Any performance Free cash flow MSEK 852 100 30 30 shares in the Special Project Incentive 2019 will be alloted in February 2022. All the Total allotment 47 plans started in January 2019 and expire in February 2022. The performance period for the two performance related plans is the calendar year 2019. 2017 Special Projects Incentive Number of Series B shares purchased and number of participants, After the end of the one-year performance period for the Special Projects Incentive Share Matching Plans, 2014–2018 (SPI) 2017, on 31 December 2017, it was determined that seven of the eight Number of Number of ­performance targets had been met, resulting in an outcome of 87.5 per cent of the Share Matching Plan shares participants aggregate performance targets. The eight performance targets in SPI 2017 were operating goals and milestones 2014 448,921 4,997 related to the product areas Gripen, AEW&C and submarines. The milestones 2015 369,530 5,310 ­consisted, for example, of various steps in a development project that were essential 2016 348,290 6,501 to its implementation. The targets were tied to among other things construction and 2018 356,108 6,996 design approvals in the Critical Design Reviews and Test Readiness Reviews. There were also performance targets tied to the physical delivery of key subsystems or maiden flight of a new platform. Due to the nature of the defence industry, further Number of Series B shares purchased and number of participants, information on the individual performance targets cannot be provided. Performance Share Plans, 2014–2018 Number of Number of Performances have been reviewed by Saab’s internal audit and the external Performance Share Plan shares participants ­auditor, PwC. The Board of Directors resolved to allot 87.5 per cent of the maximum allotment of 2014 48,935 145 performance shares in the plan. The performance shares in SPI 2017 will be 2015 41,135 151 ­delivered in May 2020. A total of 66,687 shares will be alloted in the programme. 2016 35,168 155 2018 34,397 162 2018 Share Matching Plan, Performance Share Plan and Special Projects Incentive Share Matching Plan In the Share Matching Plan, shares will be matched three times in 2021 and once (number of shares in in February 2022. thousands) 2014 2015 2016 2018 Total After the end of the one-year performance period for the Performance Share Plan Number of matching shares 2018, on 31 December 2018, it was determined that the targets had partly been eligible at ­beginning of the achieved and the Board of Directors approved performance matching as ­follows. year 398 345 281 1,024 Performance matching will take place three times in 2021 and once in ­February Allotted during the year 2022. (purchased shares) 61 356 417 After the end of the one-year performance period for the Special Projects IncenEarly share matching -6 -8 -6 -2 -22 tive (SPI) 2018, on 31 December 2018, it was determined that all eight performance targets had been met. The eight performance targets in SPI 2018 were operating Ordinary share matching -320 -320 goals and milestones related to the product areas Gripen, AEW&C and submarines. Forfeited -10 -15 -17 -7 -49 The milestones consisted, for example, of various steps in a development project Restatement due to the that were essential to its implementation and the long term contracts. The targets rights issue 5 29 28 31 93 were tied to among other things construction and design approvals in the Critical Number of matching Design Reviews and First Article Acceptance Test. There were also performance shares eligible at year-end 67 351 347 378 1,143 ­targets tied to the physical delivery of key subsystems or maiden flight of a new Number of participants, ­platform. Due to the nature of the defence industry, further information on the 31-12-2018 4,034 4,574 5,806 6,697 ­individual performance targets cannot be provided. % of total number Performances have been reviewed by Saab’s internal audit and the external of employees 24 28 35 41 ­auditor, PwC. Average remaining The Board of Directors resolved to allot 100 per cent of the maximum allotment of maturity, years 0,8 1,8 2,8 performance shares in the plan. The performance shares in SPI 2018 will be ­delivered in February 2021. Outcome Performance Reported performance Share Plan 2018 outcome targets, % Weighted,% Allotment, % Organic sales growth 4% 68 30 20 EBIT margin 7.7 77 40 31 Free cash flow -3,195 78 30 24 Total allotment 75 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 101 fi n a n cial i n formatio n Note 9, cont. Performance Share Plan NOTE 10 AUDITORS’ FEES AND COMPENSATION (number of shares in thousands) 2014 2015 2016 2018 Total Group Parent Company Number of matching shares eligible at ­beginning MSEK 2018 2017 2018 2017 of the year 41 39 29 109 PwC Allotted during the year Audit assignments 22 20 11 11 (purchased shares) 6 34 40 where of PwC Sweden 14 14 Early share matching -1 -3 -2 -6 Audit work in excess of Ordinary share matching -34 -34 the audit assignment 4 2 4 2 Forfeited -1 -1 -2 where of PwC Sweden 4 2 Restatement due to Other services 1 1 1 1 the rights issue 3 3 3 9 where of PwC Sweden 1 1 Number of matching shares eligible at year-end 6 38 35 37 116 Other audit firms Number of participants, Audit assignments 3 3 31-12-2018 123 142 154 160 Total 30 26 16 14 Average remaining maturity, years 0.8 1.8 2.8 where of PwC Sweden 19 17 Total number of shares Audit assignments refer to expenses for the statutory audit, i.e. the work that was eligible at year-end necessary to issue the audit report as well as advice in connection with the audit (number of shares in assignment. thousands) 2014 2015 2016 2018 Total Audit work in excess of the audit assignment relates to expenses for opinions and Share Matching Plan 67 351 347 378 1,143 other assignments associated to a fairly high degree with audits and which are Performance Share Plan 6 38 35 37 116 ­normally performed by the external auditor, including consultations on advisory and reporting requirements, internal control and the review of interim reports. For 2018, Less: Shares included the external auditors’ assignment as mandated by law amounted to a negligible sum. in both plans -6 -38 -35 -37 -116 Other services relate to expenses that are not classified as audit assignments, Total 67 351 347 378 1,143 audit work in excess of the audit assignment and tax advice. Recognised expense for above-mentioned plans, ­including social security expenses, MSEK 2018 2017 Share Matching Plan 2013 34 NOTE 11  EPRECIATION/AMORTISATION D Share Matching Plan 2014 23 49 AND WRITE-DOWNS Share Matching Plan 2015 47 48 Share Matching Plan 2016 53 20 Group Share Matching Plan 2018 21 MSEK 2018 2017 Performance Share Plan 2013 6 Depreciation/amortisation Performance Share Plan 2014 6 7 Capitalised development costs -134 -160 Performance Share Plan 2015 9 9 Other intangible fixed assets -120 -124 Performance Share Plan 2016 7 3 Operating properties -95 -92 Performance Share Plan 2018 3 Plant and machinery -256 -240 Special Projects Incentive 2017 10 7 Equipment, tools and installations -261 -223 Special Projects Incentive 2018 12 Total -866 -839 Total 191 183 Write-downs The expense for the share matching plans is included in operating income and is Capitalised development costs -50 ­recognised in the balance sheet as equity and accrued expenses (social security Total -50 expenses). Administrative expenses for the share matching plans amounted to MSEK 5 (5) in 2018. The expense is based on the share price of the matching shares that are expected Parent Company to be allotted. The share price is determined at the time of the participants’ MSEK 2018 2017 ­investment adjusted by the dividend that does not accrue to the employee during Depreciation/amortisation the vesting period. Capitalised development costs -56 Goodwill -40 -40 Other intangible fixed assets -72 -75 Buildings -57 -57 Plant and machinery -146 -134 Equipment, tools and installations -163 -129 Total -478 -491 No write-downs were recognised in the parent company during 2018 or 2017. 102 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 fi n a n cial i n formatio n NOTE 12 FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSES NOTE 14 TAXES Group MSEK 2018 2017 ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES Interest income on loans receivable 55 49 Income taxes are recognised in profit or loss and consist of current tax and deferred tax. When the underlying transaction is recognised in other comprehenFinancial income from revaluation and disposal sive income, for example the revaluation of the net pension obligations, the of financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss 133 64 related tax effect is also recognised in other comprehensive income. Current tax is the tax paid or received for the current year, applying the tax rates Other financial income 5 8 that have been set as of the closing day. Adjustment is made for current tax Financial income 193 121 ­attributable to previous periods. Deferred tax is calculated according to the balance sheet method based on Interest expenses on loans and financial liabilities -151 -149 ­temporary differences. Temporary differences constitute the difference between Financial expenses from revaluation and disposal the carrying amount of assets and liabilities and their value for tax purposes. of financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value Deductible temporary differences are not taken into account in the initial through profit or loss -394 reporting of assets and liabilities other than a business combination and which, Financial expenses related to pensions -67 -69 at the time of the transaction, do not affect either the recognised or taxable result. Other financial expenses -51 -54 Moreover, temporary differences are not taken into account if they are attri­ butable to shares in subsidiaries, associated companies, and joint ventures that Financial expenses -663 -272 are not expected to be reversed within the foreseeable future. The valuation of Net financial income and expenses -470 -151 deferred tax is based on how assets or liabilities are expected to be realised or settled. Deferred tax is calculated by applying the tax rates and tax rules that have Result from shares in been set as of the closing day. Result from shares in associated companies/ Deferred tax assets from deductible temporary differences and tax loss carry Parent Company Group companies joint ventures forwards are only recognised to the extent it is likely that they will be utilised. The MSEK 2018 2017 2018 2017 value of deferred tax assets is reduced when it is no longer considered likely that Dividends 88 73 they can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are set off against deferred tax liabilities Group contributions when the receivable and liability refer to the same tax authority. ­received 849 470 Capital gain on sale Tax recognised through profit or loss of shares 51 6 Net tax is comprised of current tax and deferred tax. Current tax is calculated based Write-downs -13 on applicable tax laws in the countries in which parent company and subsidiaries are Other 4 -5 active and generate taxable income. Total 941 525 51 6 Group Result from other MSEK 2018 2017 ­securities and ­ Other interest ­ receivables held income and similar profit/ Current tax expense (–)/tax income (+) Parent Company as fixed assets loss items Taxes for the year -479 -412 MSEK 2018 2017 2018 2017 Adjustment for taxes related to previous years 14 6 Interest income, Total -465 -406 Group companies 95 82 Other interest income 30 38 Deferred tax expense (–)/tax income (+) Dividend 5 Deferred tax related to temporary differences 78 -99 Translation differences 11 29 Deferred tax related to value of tax loss carry forwards capitalised during the year 22 26 Net change in value from revaluation of financial Deferred tax expense due to utilisation of previously assets/liabilities 153 21 capitalised tax value in tax loss carry forwards -77 -108 Write-downs of financial Deferred tax related to previous years -5 -4 assets -5 Deferred tax related to changed tax rates 17 Other -15 -31 Total 35 -185 Total 144 24 125 120 Total recognised tax in the Group -430 -591 Interest expenses and Parent Company similar profit/loss items The Group’s overall deferred tax amounted to MSEK 35 (-185) and current tax expense for the year amounted to MSEK -465 (-406), producing a total recognised MSEK 2018 2017 tax of MSEK -430 (-591) in the consolidated income statement. Interest expenses, Group companies -15 -12 The table “Change in deferred tax in temporary differences and tax loss carry Other interest expenses -36 -144 ­forwards” for the Group, on page 104, specifies how deferred tax affected income. Total -51 -156 Parent Company MSEK 2018 2017 NOTE 13 APPROPRIATIONS Current tax expense (-)/tax income (+) Taxes for the year -354 -224 Adjustment for taxes related to previous years 14 17 Parent Company Total -340 -207 MSEK 2018 2017 Plant and machinery as well as equipment, Deferred tax expense (-)/tax income (+) tools and installations -98 -52 Deferred tax related to temporary differences 59 -1 Total difference between tax depreciation Deferred tax related to changed tax rates -19 and depreciation according to plan -98 -52 Deferred tax related to previous years -8 Tax allocation reserve -16 41 Total 40 -9 Total -114 -11 Total recognised tax in the Parent Company -300 -216 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 103 fi n a n cial i n formatio n Note 14, cont. Change in deferred tax in temporary differences and tax loss carry forwards Deferred Intangible Tangible Provisions Tax ContinTax loss tax assets/ fixed fixed Inven­ for Other allocation gency carry Tax liabilities, Group, MSEK assets assets tories pensions provisions reserves reserve 1) forwards Other Total set-off net Closing balance 31 Dec 2016 -409 -474 237 768 194 -409 -299 337 277 222 222 Effects of change in accounting principles 53 53 53 Opening balance 1 Jan 2017 -409 -474 237 768 194 -409 -299 337 330 275 275 Recognised in profit or loss -131 -12 -9 23 -9 8 79 -82 -52 -185 -185 Recognised in other comprehensive income 43 -137 -94 -94 Acquisition/divestment of operations -5 -4 -1 -10 -10 Translation differences 3 1 -6 -1 -2 -14 -3 -22 -21 Closing balance 31 Dec 2017 -542 -489 222 833 183 -402 -220 241 138 -36 -36 Of which, deferred tax assets 3 13 222 833 184 241 302 1,798 -1,560 238 Of which, deferred tax liabilities -545 -502 -1 -402 -220 -164 -1,834 1,560 -274 Effects of change in accounting principles 1 1 1 Opening balance 1 Jan 2018 -542 -489 222 833 183 -402 220 241 139 -35 -35 Recognised in profit or loss -163 -21 37 6 43 -5 113 -55 80 35 35 Recognised in other comprehensive income 308 42 350 350 Acquisition/divestment of operations -3 3 Translation differences -3 1 6 1 1 11 -1 16 16 Closing balance 31 Dec 2018 -711 -506 265 1,148 227 -407 -107 197 260 366 366 Of which, deferred tax assets 3 9 265 1,148 228 1 197 408 2,259 382 Of which, deferred tax liabilities -714 -515 -1 -408 -107 -148 -1,893 -16 1) Attributable to Lansen Försäkrings AB. The Group’s total deferred tax income/expense in the 2018 income statement is the amount of deferred tax on capitalised tax value in tax loss carry forwards, amounted to MSEK 35 (-185). The Group’s total deferred tax income/expense in the MSEK 22 (26), and deferred tax expense due to utilisation of previously ­capitalised statement of comprehensive income amounted to MSEK 350 (-94). The ­closing tax value in tax loss carry forwards, MSEK 77 (-108). ­balance on 31 December 2018, MSEK 366 (-36), consisted of deferred tax assets of Other numbers in the ”Recognised in profit or loss” row in the table above MSEK 382 (238) and tax liabilities of MSEK -16 (-274). amounted to MSEK 90 (-103), which is the amount of deferred tax related to The net change in the year’s tax loss carry forwards, excluding acquisition/divest­temporary differences and deferred tax attributable to previous years. ment of operations and translation differences, amounted to MSEK -55 (-82), which 104 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 fi n a n cial i n formatio n Note 14, cont. Reconciliation of effective tax Deferred Deferred tax Group Parent Company tax assets ­liabilities MSEK 2018 (%) 2018 2017 (%) 2017 MSEK 31-12-2018 31-12-2018 Net Income before taxes 1,796 2,099 Tangible fixed assets -209 -209 Tax according to current tax Inventories 98 98 rate for the Parent Company -22.0 -395 -22.0 -462 Accounts receivable 7 7 Effect of other tax rates for Provisions for pensions 118 118 foreign operations 0.2 4 -0.7 -14 Other provisions 85 85 Effect on changed tax rate 0.9 17 -3.8 -80 Long-term liabilities 2 2 Non-deductible expenses -2.9 -51 -2.0 -43 Accrued expenses and Tax-exempt income 1.7 30 1.4 30 deferred income 47 47 Revaluation of deferred tax Tax assets/liabilities, total 357 -209 148 assets -0.4 -7 -1.0 -20 Set-off -209 -209 Tax on utilisation of previously non-capitalised tax loss carry Tax assets/liabilities, net 148 148 forwards -2.2 -40 Tax related to previous years 0.5 9 0.1 2 Deferred Deferred tax Other 0.2 3 -0.2 -4 Parent Company tax assets ­liabilities MSEK 31-12-2017 31-12-2017 Net Reported effective tax -24.0 -430 -28.2 -591 Tangible fixed assets -218 -218 Inventories 98 98 Capital gains/losses from sale of Group companies, associated companies and other shares have affected tax-exempt income by MSEK 31 (0). Accounts receivable 3 3 Current and deferred taxes amounted to MSEK -430 (-591), equivalent to an Provisions for pensions 124 124 effective tax rate of 24 per cent (28). The announced corporate tax cut in Sweden Other provisions 52 52 led to a lower tax rate due to the restatement of deferred taxes. Long-term liabilities 2 2 Accrued expenses and Parent Company deferred income 45 45 MSEK 2018 (%) 2018 2017 (%) 2017 Tax assets/liabilities, total 324 -218 106 Income before taxes 1,375 863 Set-off -218 218 Tax according to current tax Tax assets/liabilities, net 106 106 rate for the Parent Company -22.0 -303 -22.0 -189 Effect on changed tax rate -1.4 -19 The change in deferred tax assets and liabilities in the Parent Company, Saab AB, Tax allocated to foreign has been recognised in profit or loss. operations 0.2 3 -2.0 -17 Non-deductible expenses -2.5 -35 -5.1 -44 Estimated utilisation dates of recognised deferred tax assets Tax-exempt income 2.9 40 3.0 26 MSEK Group Parent Company Tax related to previous years 1.0 14 0.9 8 Deferred tax assets expected to be Reported effective tax -21.8 -300 -25.1 -216 recovered within one year 167 85 Deferred tax assets expected to be Tax items recognised directly against other comprehensive income recovered after one year 2,092 272 Group MSEK 2018 2017 Estimated utilisation dates of recognised deferred tax liabilities Provisions for pensions 308 43 MSEK Group Parent Company Cash flow hedges 42 -137 Deferred tax liabilities due for payment Total 350 -94 within one year 114 25 Deferred tax liabilities due for payment Expiration of recognised and unrecognised tax loss carry forwards in the Group after one year 1,779 184 MSEK Recognised tax loss Unrecognised tax Expiration carry forwards loss carry forwards Unlimited expiration 588 322 NOTE 15 EARNINGS PER SHARE 2024 27 2031 106 2018 2017 2032 5 Net income for the year attributable to Parent Company’s shareholders (MSEK) 1,313 1,477 2034 146 Weighted average number of common shares Total tax loss carry forwards 872 322 ­outstanding­: Recognised deferred tax asset 197 before dilution (thousands) 116,468 115,445 after dilution (thousands) 117,145 116,310 Tax loss carry forwards attributable to the US operations can be utilised through Earnings per share, before dilution (SEK) 11,27 12,79 2034, but expire in part as of 2031. Earnings per share, after dilution (SEK) 11,21 12,70 At the close of 2018, the Saab Group’s unrecognised tax loss carry forwards amounted to MSEK 322 (153). The weighted average number of shares outstanding before dilution refers to the total number of shares in issue less the average number of repurchased treasury shares. The weighted average number of shares outstanding after dilution is based on the effects of all potential shares (Share Matching Plan and Performance Share Plan) that give rise to a dilution effect. The number of shares outstanding during the period, as in 2017, has been adjusted in accordance with IAS 33, Earnings per share, consistent with the terms of the rights issue. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 105 N otes NOTE 16 INTANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES Impairment of goodwill is not reversed. Impairment losses from other assets are Goodwill reversed if a change has occurred in the assumptions that served as the basis for Goodwill is distributed among cash-generating units and tested annually for impairdetermining recoverable value. Impairment is reversed only to the extent the ment in the fourth quarter. Goodwill arising through the acquisition of associated ­carrying amount of the assets following the reversal does not exceed the carrying companies and joint ventures is included in the carrying amount of the shares in the amount that the asset would have had if the impairment had not been recognised, associated company and joint venture. taking into account the depreciation or amortisation that would have been In acquisitions where the cost is less than, on the one hand, the net of the cost ­recognised. of the Group company’s shares, the value of non-controlling interests in the acquired company and the fair value of the previously owned interest and, on the other, the carrying amount of the acquired assets and assumed liabilities in the Group Parent Company acquisition analysis, the difference is recognised directly through profit or loss. MSEK 31-12-2018 31-12-2017 31-12-2018 31-12-2017 Goodwill 5,310 5,177 293 333 Research and development Capitalised development Expenditures for research undertaken in an effort to gain new scientific or costs 3,328 2,360 ­technological knowledge are expensed when incurred. Expenditures for development, where the research results or other knowledge Other intangible assets 419 325 324 209 is applied to new or improved products or processes, are recognised as an asset Total 9,057 7,862 617 542 in the statement of financial position from the time when the product or process in the future is expected to be technically and commercially usable, the company Goodwill has sufficient resources to complete development and subsequently use or sell Group Parent Company the intangible asset, and the product or process is likely to generate future MSEK 2018 2017 2018 2017 ­economic benefits. The carrying amount includes expenditures for material, direct expenditures for salaries and, if applicable, other expenditures that are Acquisition value ­considered directly attributable to the asset. Other expenditures for development Opening balance, 1 January 5,874 5,893 784 784 are recognised in profit or loss as an expense when they arise. Development Business combinations 34 75 ­expenditures are recognised in the statement of financial position at cost less Translation differences 99 -94 ­accumulated amortisation and any impairment losses. Customer-financed research and development is recognised in cost of goods sold rather than capitalised. Closing balance, 31 December­ 6,007 5,874 784 784 Other intangible fixed assets Amortisation and write-downs Other intangible fixed assets, which include acquired assets such as trademarks and customer relations, are recognised at cost less accumulated amortisation Opening balance, 1 January -697 -697 -451 -411 and any impairment losses. Amortisation for the year -40 -40 Closing balance, Amortisation 31 December­ -697 -697 -491 -451 Amortisation is recognised in profit or loss over the intangible fixed assets’ ­estimated periods of use, provided such periods can be determined. Intangible Carrying amount, 31 December­ 5,310 5,177 293 333 fixed assets, excluding goodwill and other intangible fixed assets with indeter­ minate periods of use, are amortised from the day they are available for use. ­Estimated periods of use and amortisation methods are as follows: Acquisitions through business combinations 2018 relates to C-­leanship A/S. • Patents, trademarks, customer relations and other technical rights: 5–10 years ­Acquisitions through business combinations 2017 relates to Applied on a straight line basis. ­Composites AB, Muskövarvet AB and N. Sundin Dockstavarvet AB. • Capitalised development costs: Self-financed capitalised development costs are amortised on a straight line basis over a maximum period of 10 years. Capitalised development costs Acquired development costs are amortised on a straight line basis over a Group Parent Company ­maximum of 10 years. MSEK 2018 2017 2018 2017 • Goodwill: In the Parent Company, goodwill is amortised over a maximum 20 years. Goodwill is not amortised in the Group. Acquisition value Periods of use are tested annually and unfinished development work is tested for Opening balance, 1 January 7,916 7,202 2,000 2,010 impairment at least once a year regardless of any indications of diminished value. Internally developed assets 1,140 871 Disposals and reclassifications­ 8 -140 -10 Impairment of goodwill, capitalised development costs Translation differences 20 -17 and other intangible assets The carrying amount of intangible fixed assets is tested on each closing day for Closing balance, any indication of impairment. If an indication exists, the asset’s recoverable 31 December­ 9,084 7,916 2,000 2,000 amount is calculated. Amortisation and ­write-downs For goodwill and other intangible fixed assets with an indeterminate period of Opening balance, 1 January -5,556 -5,550 -2,000 -1,954 use and intangible fixed assets not yet ready for use, recoverable values are calculated annually in the fourth quarter. Amortisation for the year -134 -160 -56 The recoverable amount of an asset is the higher of its fair value less selling Write-downs for the year -50 expenses and value in use. Value in use is measured by discounting future cash Disposals and reclassifications­ 140 10 flows using a discounting factor that takes into account the risk-free rate of interest Translation differences -16 14 plus supplemental interest corresponding to the risk associated with the ­specific Closing balance, asset. 31 December­ -5,756 -5,556 -2,000 -2,000 If essentially independent cash flows cannot be isolated for individual assets, the assets are grouped at the lowest levels where essentially independent cash flows Carrying amount, can be identified (cash-generating units). An impairment loss is recognised when 31 December­ 3,328 2,360 the carrying amount of an asset or cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable value. Impairment losses are charged against the income statement. Impairment losses attributable to a cash-generating unit (pool of units) are mainly allocated to goodwill, after which they are divided proportionately among other assets in the unit (the pool of units). 106 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 N otes Note 16, cont. Other intangible assets Goodwill is distributed by business area as follows: Group Parent Company MSEK 2018 2017 2018 2017 MSEK 31-12-2018 31-12-2017 Acquisition value Dynamics 674 671 Opening balance, 1 January 2,117 1,975 1,562 1,408 Surveillance 3,112 3,583 Business combinations 22 19 Support and Services 330 330 Investments 198 193 186 170 Industrial Products and Services 896 330 Disposals and reclassifications­ -77 -53 -18 -16 Kockums 264 263 Translation differences 16 -17 Corporate 34 Closing balance, 31 December­ 2,276 2,117 1,730 1,562 Total goodwill 5,310 5,177 Amortisation and write-downs Impairment testing for cash-generating units is based on the calculation of value in Opening balance, 1 January -1,792 -1,729 -1,353 -1,292 use. This value is based on discounted cash flow forecasts according to the units’ Amortisation for the year -120 -124 -72 -75 business plans. Saab’s assessment is that this does not cause any impairment. Business combinations -8 VARIABLES USED TO CALCULATE VALUE IN USE Disposals and reclassifications­ 77 47 19 14 Volume/growth Translation differences -14 14 Growth in the cash-generating units’ business plans is based on Saab’s expectaClosing balance, 31 December­ -1,857 -1,792 -1,406 -1,353 tions with regard to development in each market area and previous experience. It is also based on estimates of cash flows that are distributed over the long projects and Carrying amount, are dependent on the timing and size of advances and milestone payments. The first 31 December­ 419 325 324 209 five years are based on the five-year business plan formulated by Group Management and approved by the Board. For cash flows after five years, the annual growth Acquisitions through business combinations 2018 relates to C-­leanship A/S. rate has been assumed to be 0 (0) per cent. ­Acquisitions through business combinations 2017 relates to Muskövarvet AB and N. Sundin Dockstavarvet AB. Operating margin The operating margin is based on the units’ operating income after depreciation and Amortisation is included in the following lines in the income statement amortisation. Each unit’s operating margin is calculated against the backdrop of Group Parent Company ­historical results and Saab’s expectations with regard to the future development of markets where the units are active. All business areas have a substantial order MSEK 2018 2017 2018 2017 ­backlog of projects that stretch over a number of years. The risks and opportunities Cost of goods sold 120 123 112 115 affecting the operating margin are managed through continuous cost forecasts for Marketing expenses 1 all significant projects. The operating margin is based on current projections of final Research and costs. development­ costs 184 160 56 Capitalised development costs Development expenditures In the five-year business plans, consideration is given to additional investments in The total capitalisation largely relates to development projects for the GlobalEye development considered necessary for certain units to reach the growth targets ­Airborne Early Warning & Control system and an export version of Gripen. in their respective markets. Development expenditures are capitalised only in the consolidated accounts. In legal entities, all development expenditures are expensed. Capitalisation of Discount rate ­development expenditures in the Parent Company relates to acquired development Discount rates are based on the weighted average cost of capital (WACC). The expenditures. WACC rate that is used is based on a risk-free rate of interest in ten years adjusted for, among other things, market risks. The discount rate is in line with the external Other intangible fixed assets requirements placed on Saab and similar companies in the market. Of the carrying amount, MSEK 419, MSEK 358 is attributable to licenses for All units have sales of defence materiel, unique systems, products and support ­operating systems etc and MSEK 61 is attributable to acquired values which relate to solutions in the international market as their primary activity, and their business expenses incurred for customer relations, trademarks, patents and values in the risk in this respect is considered equivalent. order backlog. Recent years’ order bookings have increased the share of projects across ­business areas and changed the composition of the order backlog for certain units, Impairment tests for goodwill which complicates a differentiation of discount rates between business areas. In connection with business combinations, goodwill is allocated to the cash-generAs a result, Saab has decided to apply a uniform discount rate in the impairment ating units, or groups thereof, that are expected to obtain future economic benefits tests. The discount rate (WACC) used in 2018 was 10 per cent (10) pre-tax. in the form of, for example, synergies from the acquisition. Acquired operations ­normally have access to knowledge, technology and solutions that will benefit large Sensitivity analysis parts of the Group, and the acquired operations are usually integrated with other Group Management believes that reasonable possible changes in the above operations shortly after acquisition. Consequently, goodwill is allocated to and variables would not have such a large impact that any individually would reduce tested for impairment at the business area level, which also corresponds to the the recoverable amount to less than the carrying amount. ­lowest level at which goodwill is monitored in internal governance. For the business area Industrial Products and Services, however, it is considered that there are no ­significant synergy effects between the business units, impairment testing is therefore done directly at business unit level. Goodwill in the Parent Company relates to goodwill arising from the purchase of the net assets of Saab Microwave Systems. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 107 N otes NOTE 17 TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES Group Parent Company Tangible fixed assets are recognised as an asset in the statement of financial MSEK 31-12-2018 31-12-2017 31-12-2018 31-12-2017 position if it is likely that the future economic benefits will accrue to the Group Operating properties/ and the cost of the asset can be reliably estimated. buildings and land1) 2,051 2,059 1,420 1,456 Tangible fixed assets are recognised at cost after deducting accumulated Plant and machinery 1,854 1,595 925 818 depreciation and any write-down. Cost includes the purchase price and costs Equipment, tools directly attributable to putting the asset into place and condition to be utilised in and ­installations 1,000 805 648 474 accordance with the purpose of the purchase. Examples of directly attributable expenditures included in cost are delivery and handling, installation, title and Construction in progress 1,224 852 716 480 ­consulting services. Total 6,129 5,311 3,709 3,228 The cost of fixed assets produced by Saab includes expenditures for material, 1) In the Group, the reported amount refers to operating properties. In the Parent Company, expenditures for employee benefits and, where applicable, other production costs the reported amount refers to buildings and land. considered directly attributable to the fixed asset. The cost of tangible fixed assets includes estimated costs for disassembly and removal of the assets as well as Operating properties/buildings and land1) ­restoration of the location or area where these assets are found. Group Parent Company The carrying amount of a tangible fixed asset is excluded from the statement MSEK 2018 2017 2018 2017 of financial position when the asset is sold or disposed of or when no future economic benefits are expected from its use. The gain or loss that arises on the Acquisition value sale or disposal is comprised of the difference between the sales price and the Opening balance, asset’s carrying amount less direct selling expenses. Such gains and losses are 1 January 5,057 4,958 2,140 2,088 recognised as other operating income/expenses. Business combinations 55 Investments 123 66 30 41 Incremental expenditures Reclassifications 6 -5 11 Incremental expenditures are added to cost only if it is likely that the future economic benefits tied to the incremental expenditures will accrue to the Group Divestments -40 -5 -4 and the expenditures can be reliably estimated. All other incremental expendi­ Translation differences -1 -17 tures are recognised as costs in the period they arise. Closing balance, The determining factor whether an incremental expenditure is added to cost 31 December­ 5,145 5,057 2,161 2,140 is whether it relates to the replacement of identifiable components, or parts ­thereof. If so, the cost is capitalised. Even in cases where a new component is Depreciation and write-downs ­created, the expenditure is added to cost. Any undepreciated carrying amount of replaced components, or parts of components, is disposed of and expensed Opening balance, 1 January -2,998 -2,874 -1,581 -1,518 in connection with the replacement. Repairs are expensed as incurred. Depreciation for the year -95 -92 -57 -57 Depreciation Business combinations -35 Depreciation is booked on a straight-line basis based on the asset’s cost less Divestments and estimated residual value at the end of the period of use, over the asset’s Reclassifications 8 2 -6 ­estimated period of use. Land is not depreciated. Component depreciation is Translation differences -9 1 applied, which means that fixed assets consisting of various components or where significant parts have different periods of use are depreciated as separate Closing balance, assets based on their periods of use. 31 December­ -3,094 -2,998 -1,638 -1,581 Revaluations Estimated periods of use: Opening balance, • Operating properties/buildings: 20–90 years. 1 January 897 897 • Plant and machinery: 5–10 years. Closing balance, • Equipment, tools, installations and computers: 3–10 years. 31 D­ecember 897 897 Each asset’s residual value and period of use are estimated annually. Carrying amount, Impairment of tangible assets 31 D­ecember 2,051 2,059 1,420 1,456 The carrying amount of fixed assets, with the exception of assets stated at fair 1) In the Group, the reported amount refers to operating properties. In the Parent Company, value, is tested on each closing day for any indication of impairment. If an the reported amount refers to buildings and land. ­indication exists, the asset’s recoverable amount is calculated. The recoverable amount of an asset is the higher of its fair value less selling Acquisitions through business combinations 2017 relates to Applied expenses and value in use. Value in use is measured by discounting future cash ­Composites AB, Muskövarvet AB and N. Sundin Dockstavarvet AB. flows using a discounting factor that takes into account the risk-free rate of Operating properties include a property leased by Saab Sensis in the US through ­interest plus supplemental interest corresponding to the risk associated with the a financial lease. The financial lease extends through 2025. The carrying amount specific asset. If essentially independent cash flows cannot be isolated for is MSEK 72. The property is depreciated on a straight-line basis over its period ­individual assets, the assets are grouped at the lowest levels where essentially of use through 2025. independent cash flows can be identified (cash-generating units). An impairment Total future minimum lease fees amount to MSEK 92, of which MSEK 13 is due loss is recognised when the carrying amount of an asset or cash-generating unit within one year, MSEK 52 after one year but within five years, and MSEK 27 after five exceeds its recoverable value. Impairment losses are charged against the income years. The present value of future minimum lease fees is MSEK 81. statement. Impairment losses are reversed if a change has occurred in the assumptions that served as the basis for determining recoverable value. Impairment is reversed only to the extent the carrying amount of the assets following the reversal does not exceed the carrying amount that the asset would have had if the impairment had not been recognised, taking into account the depreciation or amortisation that would have been recognised. 108 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 N otes Note 17, cont. Plant and machinery Equipment, tools and installations Group Parent Company Group Parent Company MSEK 2018 2017 2018 2017 MSEK 2018 2017 2018 2017 Acquisition value Acquisition value Opening balance, Opening balance, 1 January 5,103 4,835 2,866 2,686 1 January 2,442 2,158 1,469 1,313 Business combinations 66 Business combinations 20 57 Investments 516 403 250 295 Investments 458 336 342 208 Reclassifications -13 -2 5 -11 Reclassifications 10 -2 -1 Divestments -61 -132 -43 -104 Divestments -159 -93 -63 -52 Translation differences 44 -67 Translation differences 8 -14 Closing balance, Closing balance, 31 December 5,589 5,103 3,078 2,866 31 December­ 2,779 2,442 1,747 1,469 Depreciation Depreciation and write-downs and write-downs Opening balance, Opening balance, 1 January -3,508 -3,365 -2,048 -1,991 1 January -1,637 -1,484 -955 -917 Depreciation for the year -256 -240 -146 -134 Depreciation for the year -261 -223 -163 -129 Business combinations -61 Business combinations -11 -27 Reclassifications 12 1 Divestments 144 90 59 51 Divestments 58 97 41 77 Reclassifications -15 Translation differences -41 60 Translation differences 1 7 Closing balance, Closing balance, 31 December­ -3,735 -3,508 -2,153 -2,048 31 December­ -1,779 -1,637 -1,099 -995 Carrying amount, Carrying amount, 31 December 1,854 1,595 925 818 31 December­ 1,000 805 648 474 Acquisitions through business combinations 2017 relates to Applied Acquisitions through business combinations 2018 relates to C­-leanship A/S. ­Comp­osites AB and N. Sundin Dockstavarvet AB. ­Acquisitions through business combinations 2017 relates to Applied Plant and machinery includes an aircraft that is leased through a finance lease. ­Composites AB, Muskövarvet AB and N. Sundin Dockstavarvet AB. The finance lease extends through 2020. The carrying amount is MSEK 369. The aircraft is depreciated on a straight-line basis over its period of use. Construction in progress Total future minimum lease payments amount to MSEK 436, of which MSEK 42 Group Parent Company is due within one year and MSEK 395 is due later than one year but within five years. The present value of the future minimum lease fees amounts to MSEK 381. MSEK 2018 2017 2018 2017 Acquisition value Opening balance, 1 January 852 623 480 475 Investments 384 228 236 5 Divestments -9 Translation differences -3 1 Carrying amount, 31 December­ 1,224 852 716 480 Investments in construction in progress refer to a net of new investments and reclassifications to other asset classes. Collateral On 31 December 2018 property with a carrying amount of MSEK 0 (0) was ­pledged as collateral for bank loans. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 109 N otes NOTE 18 BIOLOGICAL ASSETS NOTE 19  HARES IN ASSOCIATED COMPANIES S AND JOINT VENTURES ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES Biological assets in the form of forests are carried at fair value after deduction ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES of estimated selling expenses. Fair value is based on the valuation of an Associated companies are companies over which the Group has a significant, independent appraiser. but not decisive, influence over operating and financial controls, usually through a shareholding of between 20 and 50 per cent of the votes. Joint ventures are ­companies in which the Group, through a cooperative agreement with one or more Group parties, shares a decisive influence over operating and financial controls. As of MSEK 2018 2017 the date that significant influence in an associated company and shared decisive Living forest influence in a joint venture arises, the shares in the associated company or joint Carrying amount, 1 January 352 291 venture are recognised according to the equity method in the consolidated accounts. The equity method is applied until the date when significant or shared Investments 61 decisive influence ceases. Change in fair value 13 13 The equity method means that the carrying amount of the shares in associated Less fair value logging -16 -13 companies and joint ventures corresponds to the Group’s share of the associCarrying amount, 31 December 349 352 ated companies’ and joint ventures’ equity based on an application of the Group’s accounting principles as well as Group goodwill and any remaining Group surplus Of which fixed assets 349 352 or deficit values. “Share in income of associated companies and joint ventures” in the income statement comprises the Group’s share of the net income after tax On 31 December 2018, biological assets consisted of approximately 383,000 m³sk and the non-controlling interests in associated companies and joint ventures of spruce, 740,000 m³sk of pine and 91,000 m³sk of hardwood. Forest growth is adjusted for any amortisation/depreciation, write-downs or dissolution of estimated at 45,000 m³sk per year. During the year, approximately 43,000 m³sk of acquired surplus and deficit values determined in the same way as for business timber was felled, which had a fair value in the Group, after deduction of selling combinations. Dividends received from associated companies and joint ventures expenses, of MSEK 16 on the felling date. reduce the carrying amount of the investment. The valuation of forests has been done with the help of independent appraisers. If the Group’s share of the accumulated deficit in an associated company or The forestry property has been valued according to the market comparison joint venture exceeds the carrying amount of the shares in the Group, the value of method. In the valuation according to the market comparison method, the the shares is reduced to zero. Losses are also offset against long-term uncollatenvironmental impact from a firing range within the property has not been taken eralised financial balances that in their economic significance represent part of into account. An adjustment for the environmental impact has therefore been the owner-company’s net investment in the associated company or joint venture. made by reducing fair value by an amount corresponding to the market value Subsequent losses are not recognised as a liability in the consolidated accounts of the size of the firing range (4,457 hectares) less the value of the timber. as long as the Group has not issued any guarantees to cover losses arising in the associated company or joint venture. When significant influence over the associated company or shared decisive influence over the joint venture ceases but the Group retains an interest in the company, the remaining shares are initially recognised at fair value. The gain or loss that arises is recognised in profit or loss. Associated companies and joint ventures Group MSEK 2018 2017 Carrying amount, 1 January 700 788 Acquisition of associated companies and joint ventures 18 3 Sales of associated companies and joint ventures -50 Share in income of associated companies and joint ventures 1) -14 -39 New share issues/infusion of capital 10 12 Repayment of contributed capital -3 -20 Adjustment against receivable 5 9 Translation differences and internal gains 19 -27 Dividends -39 -26 Carrying amount, 31 December 646 700 1) Share in associated companies’ and joint ventures’ net income and non-controlling interests. The Group’s associated companies and joint ventures are held for operating purposes, i.e., they are related to operations of the business areas or in the venture portfolio and are therefore recognised in operating income. In 2018, Saab acquired Robowaste AB, an associated company. Aggregate net income for Saab’s associated companies amounted to MSEK -46 (-130) and other comprehensive income/loss to MSEK 47 (-62), producing net ­comprehensive income/loss of MSEK 1 (-192). For Saab’s joint ventures, net income amounted to MSEK 27 (13) and other ­comprehensive income/loss to MSEK 12 (-17), producing net comprehensive income/loss of MSEK 39 (-4). Saab’s share in income of associated companies and joint ventures amounts to MSEK -14 (-39). Shares in associated companies and joint ventures as of 31 December 2018 include goodwill of MSEK 114 (141). The Group’s share of sales, income, assets, liabilities, equity, and the carrying amount of shares in associated companies and joint ventures is as follows. 110 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 N otes Note 19, cont. Carrying Share in amount, income of shares in associated associated companies companies Ownership and joint and joint 2018, MSEK Country Sales Income Assets Liabilities Equity interest, %1) ventures ventures Associated companies Akaer Participacões S.A. Brazil 163 -55 469 191 278 28.2 -15 78 AVIA SATCOM Co., Ltd Thailand 39 453 48 405 25.1 102 FFV Services Private Limited India 48 4 157 21 136 49.0 2 67 S.N. Technologies SA Switzerland 91 23 89 17 72 50.0 11 36 Taurus Systems GmbH Germany 348 53 1,014 921 93 33.0 18 31 UMS Skeldar AG Switzerland 18 -99 534 417 117 47.0 -46 55 Wah Nobel (Pvt) Ltd Pakistan 279 62 351 66 285 27.0 17 77 Other associated companies, mainly in the ventures portfolio 591 -34 609 388 221 -15 70 Total associated companies 1,577 -46 3,676 2,069 1,607 -28 516 Joint ventures Fortis Marine Solutions Pte Ltd Singapore 26 49.0 13 1 Järfälla-Veddesta Holdings AB Sweden 704 704 35.0 Saab Grintek Technologies Ltd South Africa 305 108 40 68 70.0 47 Vricon Inc. USA 184 1 206 41 165 50.0 1 82 Total joint ventures 489 27 1,018 785 233 14 130 Total 2,066 -19 4,694 2,854 1,840 -14 646 1) The ownership interest of each holding represents both ownership and voting rights. Carrying Share in amount, income of shares in associated associated companies companies Ownership and joint and joint 2017, MSEK Country Sales Income Assets Liabilities Equity interest, %1) ventures ventures Associated companies Akaer Participacões S.A. Brazil 115 -23 530 197 333 25.0 -6 83 AVIA SATCOM Co., Ltd Thailand 89 447 70 377 36.6 138 FFV Services Private Limited India 93 41 134 2 132 49.0 20 65 S.N. Technologies SA Switzerland 48 3 53 4 49 50.0 2 25 Taurus Systems GmbH Germany 2,204 15 1,810 1,771 39 33.0 5 13 UMS Skeldar AG Switzerland 11 -92 314 112 202 47.0 -43 95 Wah Nobel (Pvt) Ltd Pakistan 146 24 263 34 229 27.2 7 62 Other associated companies, mainly in the ventures portfolio 523 -98 651 457 194 -30 67 Total associated companies 3,229 -130 4,202 2,647 1,555 -45 548 Joint ventures Fortis Marine Solutions Pte Ltd Singapore 73 25 48 49.0 24 Gripen International KB Sweden 13 5 5 50.0 6 2 Järfälla-Veddesta Holdings AB Sweden 705 705 35.0 Saab Grintek Technologies Ltd South Africa 350 160 87 73 70.0 51 Vricon Inc. USA 119 263 114 149 50.0 75 Total joint ventures 469 13 1,206 931 275 6 152 Total 3,698 -117 5,408 3,578 1,830 -39 700 1) The ownership interest of each holding represents both ownership and voting rights. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 111 N otes NOTE 20  ARENT COMPANY’S SHARES P NOTE 21 RECEIVABLES FROM IN ASSOCIATED COMPANIES GROUP COMPANIES AND JOINT VENTURES Long-term receivables from associated Parent Company Long-term receivables companies and MSEK 2018 2017 Parent Company from Group companies joint ventures Accumulated acquisition value MSEK 2018 2017 2018 2017 Opening balance, 1 January 369 398 Accumulated acquisition value Acquisitions 24 9 Opening balance, 1 January 81 50 370 311 Divestments -25 Adjusted opening balance IFRS 9 -6 Dividends -2 -44 Settled receivables -24 -60 Shares from net income for the year in joint ventures 6 Additional receivables 11 31 76 67 Closing balance, 31 December 366 369 Translation differences 11 -8 Closing balance, 31 December 68 81 391 370 Carrying amount, 31 December 366 369 Specification of Parent Company’s (co-owner’s) directly owned holdings of shares in associated companies and joint ventures NOTE 22 FINANCIAL INVESTMENTS 2018 % of votes Carrying MSEK and capital amount Group Associated companies MSEK 31-12-2018 31-12-2017 Akaer Participacões S.A., Brazil 28.2 113 Financial investments held as fixed assets Kedtech Holding AB, 556945-3748, Stockholm 23.0 23 Financial assets measured at fair value through Skill Scandinavia AB, 556060­5478, Linköping 33.0 2 profit or loss: AVIA SATCOM Co Ltd, Thailand 25.1 54 Shares and participations 27 26 Aerostructures Assemblies India Pvt Ltd 50.0/26.0 6 Total 27 26 UMS Skeldar AG, CHE-113.226.140, Switzerland 47.0 56 Short-term investments held as current assets Combient AB, 556985-1560, Järfälla 24.9 29 Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss: Joint ventures Interest-bearing securities 9,003 4,469 Vricon Inc., USA 50.0 83 Total 9,003 4,469 Järfälla-Veddesta Holdings AB, 559025-4024, Linköping 35.0 Industrigruppen JAS AB, 556147-5921, Stockholm 80.0 Total 366 NOTE 23 OTHER LONG-TERM SECURITIES HOLDINGS 2017 % of votes Carrying MSEK and capital amount Parent Company Associated companies MSEK 2018 2017 Akaer Participacões S.A., Brazil 25.0 97 Accumulated acquisition value Kedtech Holding AB, 556945-3748, Stockholm 23.0 23 Opening balance, 1 January 40 40 Skill Scandinavia AB, 556060­5478, Linköping 33.0 2 Acquisitions 3 AVIA SATCOM Co Ltd, Thailand 36.6 78 Divestments -1 Aerostructures Assemblies India Pvt Ltd 50.0/26.0 6 Closing balance, 31 December 42 40 UMS Skeldar AG, CHE-113.226.140, Switzerland 47.0 56 Combient AB, 556985-1560, Järfälla 24.9 22 Accumulated write-downs Opening balance, 1 January -17 -17 Joint ventures Closing balance, 31 December -17 -17 Vricon Inc., USA 50.0 83 Järfälla-Veddesta Holdings AB, Carrying amount, 31 December 25 23 559025-4024, Linköping 35.0 Acquisition in 2018 refers to AMEXCI AB. Gripen International KB, 969679-8231, Linköping 50.0 2 Divestment in 2018 refers to liquidation of PortWise AB. Industrigruppen JAS AB, 556147-5921, Stockholm 80.0 Total 369 112 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 N otes NOTE 24 LONG-TERM RECEIVABLES NOTE 25 INVENTORIES AND OTHER RECEIVABLES Group ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES MSEK 31-12-2018 31-12-2017 Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Net realisable Long-term receivables held as fixed assets value is the estimated selling price in continuing operations after deducting ­estimated expenses for completion and expenses incurred in selling. Receivables from associated companies, Cost is calculated by applying the first-in first-out method (FIFO) or the interest-bearing 226 172 weighted average method and includes expenses to acquire inventory assets Receivables from joint ventures, interest-bearing 223 282 and bring them to their present location and condition. For finished and Receivables attributable to pensions, interest-bearing 6 40 ­semi­finished goods, cost consists of direct manufacturing expenses and a Other non interest-bearing receivables 99 168 ­reasonable share of indirect manufacturing expenses as well as expenses to Total 554 662 ­customise products for individual customers. Calculations take into account ­normal ­capacity utilisation. Parent Company MSEK 31-12-2018 31-12-2017 Group Other long-term receivables MSEK 31-12-2018 31-12-2017 Non interest-bearing receivables 18 19 Raw materials and consumables 3,778 3,249 Total 18 19 Work in progress 4,346 3,806 Finished goods and goods for resale 1,152 1,192 Parent Company Total 9,276 8,247 MSEK 31-12-2018 31-12-2017 Other receivables held as current assets Saab and the Swedish Ministry of Enterprise, Energy and Communications have Non interest-bearing receivables 409 397 reached an agreement with the National Debt Office to co-finance Saab’s partici­ Total 409 397 pation in the Airbus A380 project. The co-financing is in the form of a royalty loan maximised at MSEK 350. Repayment will take the form of a royalty on each delivery Parent Company to Airbus. Through 2018, the National Debt Office has paid out MSEK 263 (263). The debt as of 31 December 2018 amounted to MSEK 130 (132), which reduced MSEK 2018 2017 inventory in the financial statements. Long-term receivables The Group’s cost of goods sold includes inventory write-downs of MSEK 169 (82). Accumulated acquisition value The reversal of previous write-downs amounted to MSEK 46 (38). Opening balance, 1 January 19 7 Parent Company Additional receivables 15 MSEK 31-12-2018 31-12-2017 Settled receivables -1 -3 Raw materials and consumables 2,146 1,987 Closing balance, 31 December 18 19 Work in progress 3,052 2,573 Finished goods and goods for resale 913 949 Advance payments to suppliers 48 72 Total 6,159 5,581 Cost of goods sold for the Parent Company includes inventory write-downs of MSEK 159 (82) after the reversal of previous write-downs of MSEK 44 (34). S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 113 N otes NOTE 26 ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE NOTE 27 PREPAID EXPENSES AND ACCRUED INCOME ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES Group Parent Company Accounts receivable are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently at MSEK 31-12-2018 31-12-2017 31-12-2018 31-12-2017 amortised cost at the amount expected to be received based on an individual Prepaid expenses 802 585 708 468 ­valuation. Accounts receivable have a short expected maturity, due to which they Capitalised changes in are normally recognised at their nominal amount without discounting. value related to forward Starting 1 January 2018, the Group applies IFRS 9’s revised principles for contract rollovers 1,149 543 ­provisions and write-downs of credit losses. The previously applied model, which Other accrued income 117 315 196 147 was based on incurred credit losses, has been replaced by a model based on expected credit losses. Total 919 900 2,053 1,158 Impairment losses on accounts receivable from defence-related operations Prepaid expenses primarily relate to pension premiums, rents, licenses and are tested based on expected credit losses due to defaults within the coming insurance. twelve months. These tests are done individually by counterparty. Impairment losses on accounts receivable from commercial operations are tested based on a probability-weighted outcome for expected credit losses. The NOTE 28 LIQUID ASSETS calculation is based on incurred customer losses in the last ten financial years, from which a worst-case scenario, default scenario and best-case scenario have been calculated. The default scenario has been calculated using the average of established credit customer losses during these ten years. The other two sce­ ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES narios have been calculated based on historical information as well as forward-­ Liquid assets consist of cash and cash equivalents, immediately accessible looking information such as future confidence and economic forecasts. Each balances with banks and similar institutions, and short-term liquid investments ­scenario has been assigned a probability, where the default scenario is weighted with a maturity from acquisition date of less than three months, which are 80 per cent in the calculation and the other two scenarios 10 per cent each. exposed to no more than an insignificant risk of fluctuation in value. Contract assets recognised in the balance sheet for work to be billed have essentially the same risk characteristics as work already billed for the same type Group of contract. The Group therefore applies the same assessment for expected MSEK 31-12-2018 31-12-2017 credit losses in contract assets as for account receivables. Cash and bank balances 1,300 1,463 Impairment of accounts receivable is recognised in operating expenses. Bank deposits 1,151 739 Saab has a trade receivable sales programme with an independent party. Total according to statement of financial position 2,451 2,202 When a receivable is sold, the entire credit risk is transferred to the counterparty, because of which accounts receivable are reduced by the proceeds received. Total according to statement of cash flows 2,451 2,202 Bank deposits relate to short-term investments, with a maturity of less than three The Group’s outstanding accounts receivable amounted to MSEK 5,199 (4,342) as of months. The Group’s unutilised account overdraft facility amounted to MSEK 43 (42) 31 December 2018. Saab has an established programme to sell trade receivables to at year-end. With regard to the Group’s other loan facilities, refer to notes 31 and 36. strengthen its financial position and increase financial flexibility. The programme has not been utilised since 31 December 2016. Saab’s aim is to utilise this programme in situations where greater financial flexibility is needed. NOTE 29 SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY Defence-related sales accounted for 85 per cent (84) of total sales, where the counterparties in most accounts receivable are nations with high creditworthiness. The shares in the Parent Company are divided into two series, A and B. Both The Group’s receivables are mainly within the EU, which accounted for 58 per cent classes of shares carry equal rights, with the exception that each Series A share is (54) of the total. Where counterparties’ creditworthiness is deemed unsatisfactory, entitled to ten votes and each Series B share one vote. The shares have a quota bank or insurance guarantees or guarantees from EKN are secured. value of SEK 16. Write-downs of accounts receivable amounted to MSEK 41 (27) as of 31 ­Dec­ember 2018, corresponding to 0.8 per cent (0.6) of total accounts receivable. Outstanding shares at Number of Number of Number of Accounts receivable in the Parent Company amounted to MSEK 2,250 (1,907). 31 December 2018 shares shares, % votes, % During the year, receivables were written down by MSEK 17 (7). Reversals of previous Series A shares 2,383,903 1.8% 15.4% write-downs amounted to MSEK 3 (0). Series B shares 131,098,977 98.2% 84.6% Total 133,482,880 100.0% 100.0% Write-downs of accounts receivable Group MSEK 2018 2017 Outstanding shares at Number of Number of Number of 31 December 2017 shares shares, % votes, % Write-downs, 1 January -27 -14 Series A shares 1,907,123 1.8% 15.4% Write-downs for calculated losses -23 -14 Series B shares 104,916,659 98.2% 84.6% Reversal of previous write-downs 9 1 Total 106,823,782 100.0% 100.0% Actual credit losses Translation differences Change in number of Write-downs, 31 December -41 -27 outstanding shares 2018 Series A Series B Total Number of outstanding shares at 1 January 1,907,123 104,916,659 106,823,782 Age analysis of the Group’s overdue receivables Group Repurchase of shares -500,000 -500,000 MSEK 31-12-2018 31-12-2017 Early share matching 23,140 23,140 <30 days 772 366 Ordinary share matching 440,455 440,455 30 to 90 days 107 198 Rights issue 476,780 26,218,723 26,695,503 91 to 180 days 80 110 Number of outstanding shares at 31 December 2,383,903 131,098,977 133,482,880 >181 days 462 407 Accounts receivable overdue 1,421 1,081 In 2018, 500,000 Series B shares were repurchased on the market to secure Saab’s Accounts receivable not overdue 3,778 3,261 Share Matching Plans and Performance Share Plans. During the year, 463,595 shares were matched in Saab’s Share Matching Plan. Transferred shares correspond Total accounts ­receivable 5,199 4,342 to 0.3 per cent of the share capital. The completed rights issue during the year has increased total number of shares with 26,695,503 shares allocated to 476,780 series A shares and 26,218,723 series B shares. A total of 2,363,299 shares are held in treasury. 114 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 N otes Note 29, cont. NOTE 30 INTEREST-BEARING LIABILITIES The dividend to shareholders amounted to MSEK 588 (559), or SEK 5.50 (5.25) Group per share. MSEK 31-12-2018 31-12-2017 Proposed disposition of earnings 2018 Long-term liabilities The Board of Directors and the President propose that the unappropriated Liabilities to credit institutions 7,773 5,798 earnings in the Parent Company at disposal of the Annual General Meeting, Other interest-bearing liabilities 423 437 ­amounting to: Total 8,196 6,235 SEK Current liabilities Retained earnings 4,216,961,639 Liabilities to credit institutions 986 Share premium reserve 5,557,130,127 Liabilities to associated companies and joint ventures 43 45 Net income for the year 1,075,469,016 Other interest-bearing liabilities 39 47 Total 10,849,560,782 Total 1,068 92 be disposed as follows: Total interest-bearing liabilities 9,264 6,327 To the shareholders, a dividend of SEK 4.50 per share 600,672,960 To share premium reserve 5,557,130,127 Terms and repayment schedules Funds to be carried forward 4,691,757,695 Collateral for bank loans amounts to MSEK 0 (0). Of the long-term liabilities, Total 10,849,560,782 MSEK 6,270 (5,684) falls due between one and five years of the closing day and MSEK 1,926 (551) later than five years of the closing day. Liabilities to credit institutions consist of Medium Term Notes (MTN) and SchuldManagement of the Group’s capital schein loans. For more information on financial risk management, see note 36. The Group’s capital under management consists of equity. The Group’s capital The fair value of MTNs and Schuldschein loans exceeds book value by MSEK 173 ­management goal is to facilitate continued operating growth and to remain prepared (85). Saab otherwise considers that there is no significant difference between book to capitalise on business opportunities. Saab’s equity/asset goal is at least 30 and fair value. per cent. Net result of cash flow hedges The net result of cash flow hedges comprises the effective share of the cumulative NOTE 31 LIABILITIES TO CREDIT INSTITUTIONS net change in fair value of a cash flow hedging instrument attributable to hedge transactions that have not yet taken place. Parent company MSEK 31-12-2018 31-12-2017 Translation reserve The translation reserve comprises exchange rate differences that arise from the Current liabilities translation of financial reports from operations that have prepared their reports in Overdraft facilities: Available credit/limit 30 28 a currency other than the currency of the Group’s financial reports. The Parent Short-term portion of bank loans: Unutilised portion -30 -28 ­Company and the Group present their financial reports in SEK. The translation Utilised credit amount reserve at year-end amounts to 447 (270). Of the translation reserve MSEK 5 (15) has been reclassified to gains. Credit facilities: Commercial paper 5,000 5,000 Unutilised portion of commercial paper -5,000 -5,000 Revaluation reserve Utilised credit amount The revaluation reserve comprises the difference between the fair value and Credit facility: Medium Term Notes (MTN) 986 carrying amount of operating properties reclassified as investment properties. Total 986 Of the revaluation reserve, MSEK 0 (0) has been transferred to retained earnings upon the sale of investment properties in 2018. Long-term liabilities Credit facilities: Available credit/limit PARENT COMPANY (revolving credit facility) 6,000 6,000 Restricted reserves Unutilised portion of revolving credit facility -6,000 -6,000 Restricted reserves may not be reduced through profit distributions. Utilised credit amount Revaluation reserve Credit facility: Medium Term Notes (MTN) 6,745 4,812 When a tangible or financial fixed asset is revaluated, the revaluation amount Credit facility: Schuldschein (SSD) 1,027 985 is allocated to a revaluation reserve. Premium/Discount 1 Total 7,772 5,798 Statutory reserve Provisions to the statutory reserve have previously amounted to at least 10 per cent Total liabilities to credit institutions 8,758 5,798 of net income for the year, until the statutory reserve corresponded to at least 20 per cent of the Parent Company’s capital stock. As of 2006 provisions are voluntary and Since 2009, Saab has a Medium Term Note programme (MTN) to enable the the Parent Company makes no provisions to the statutory reserve. ­issuance of long-term loans on the capital market. During the first quarter 2018, the MTN programme was increased from MSEK 6,000 to MSEK 10,000. Unrestricted equity Under the terms of this programme, Saab has issued fixed rate bonds as well Share premium reserve as Floating Rate Notes (FRN). After partly repurchased two loans and at the same Amounts exceeding the quota value per share received in connection with the rights time issued two new loans in September 2018, no new activities has been made. issue. The amount is available for distribution to the shareholders. During December loans where maturing to an amount of MSEK 210. As a result, ­outstanding loans under the MTN programme totalled MSEK 7,731. In December Retained earnings 2015, Saab signed Schuldschein loan agreements amounting to MEUR 100. Retained earnings consist of previous year’s unrestricted equity after profit ­distribution and Group contributions paid. Retained earnings together with net income for the year comprise unrestricted equity, i.e., the amount available for ­distribution to the shareholders. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 115 N otes NOTE 32 POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS The Saab Group’s post-employment benefits refer to pensions. These pensions USA comprise both defined-contribution and defined-benefit plans. A defined-contribuThe US has a defined-benefit plan for certain employees and a supplementary plan tion plan is a pension plan according to which the Group pays fixed fees to a sepafor individuals in executive positions. The plans are company-specific according to rate legal entity that assumes the obligations to employees. Other pension plans are an agreement in 1986 between the employees and the company and include retiredefined-benefit and refer to pension obligations that are retained by the Group, ment and survivor’s pensions. secured through its own pension funds or through insurance. The pension is not vested during the first five years of employment, and the ­retirement age is 65. Payments corresponding to accrued pensions are made yearly ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES GROUP to an external trustee to cover the obligation. Payments during 2018 amounted to Defined-contribution plans MSEK 1 (0). Obligations for fees to defined-contribution plans are expensed through the income statement. Switzerland Switzerland has a defined-benefit plan that includes all employees and where Defined-benefit plans ­minimum benefits are prescribed by law. The company is affiliated with a collective Saab has around ten different types of defined-benefit plans. Defined-benefit foundation for the purpose of insuring its employees’ retirement and survivor’s plans mainly relate to the Swedish operations, where the ITP2 plan accounts for pension, and payments are made annually. Provisions for pensions are made by both 92 per cent (92) of the total obligation. employer and employees. The employee may elect to receive the full pension as a The Group’s net obligation for defined-benefit plans is calculated separately lump sum at retirement. for each plan by estimating the future compensation that employees have earned through employment in present and previous periods. This compensation is Other countries ­discounted to present value. Most of the liability is met through provisions to a The pension plans in other countries are of insignificant amounts and are therefore pension fund. The net obligation on the closing day is estimated as the net of the reported together with Sweden below. fair value of the fund assets and the present value of the pension liability. The discount rate to estimate the obligation at present value is based on the Disclosures regarding defined-benefit plans interest rate on the closing day for a first-class mortgage bond with a maturity corresponding to the pension obligation. The calculation is made by qualified 31-12-2018 Group actuaries using the Projected Unit Credit Method. MSEK Sweden USA Switzerland Total When the compensation terms in a plan are improved, the portion of the Wholly or partially funded obligations increased compensation attributable to the employees’ service in previous Present value of defined-benefit periods is expensed through the income statement. obligations 10,195 327 230 10,752 If the obligation calculated on the closing day deviates from the estimated Fair value of assets under management -6,098 -319 -236 -6,653 obligation, actuarial gains or losses arise and are recognised directly in other Present value of net obligation 4,097 8 -6 4,099 comprehensive income. The same interest rate is used to calculate financial income on assets under management as to discount pension liabilities. Share funded 60% 98% 103% 62% If pension obligations are lower than assets under management, this amount Average duration of pension obligation 19 14 16 is recognised as an asset. When there is a difference between how the pension cost is determined for a legal entity and for the Group, a liability or receivable is recognised for the special The net amount and the special ­employer’s contribution is reported employer’s contribution based on this difference. in the following items in the statement of financial position Provisions for pensions (excluding The following tables provide information on defined-benefit pension plans. special employer’s contribution) 4,097 8 4,105 Provisions for pensions (related to Sweden special employer’s contribution) 1,008 1,008 The predominant plan in Sweden is the ITP plan under collective agreements Long-term receivables 6 6 between the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and the Negotiation Cartel for Salaried Employees in the Private Business Sector (PTK). The ITP2 plan, which is based on an employee’s final salary, covers individuals born 1978 and before and is 31-12-2017 Group a defined-benefit plan, while the ITP1 plan is a defined-contribution plan and covers MSEK Sweden USA Switzerland Total individuals born 1979 and after. Wholly or partially funded obligations Saab’s defined-benefit pension plans in Sweden are secured either through Present value of defined-benefit transfers to the Group’s own pension fund, as liabilities in the balance sheet or are obligations 8,830 320 191 9,341 funded through insurance mainly with Alecta. The Saab Pension Fund, which Fair value of assets under management -6,144 -354 -197 -6,695 secures part of the ITP2 plan, had assets of MSEK 6,051 (6,098) as of 31 December 2018, compared to an obligation of MSEK 9,939 (8,572), calculated according to IAS Present value of net obligation 2,686 -34 -6 2,646 19, which means that the solvency margin amounted to 61 per cent (71). Share funded 70% 111% 103% 72% The following applies to the portion of the defined-benefit pension obligation for retirement and family pensions secured through insurance with Alecta. According to Average duration of pension obligation 18 14 16 a pronouncement by the Swedish Financial Reporting Board, this is a defined-benefit plan for multiple employers. Alecta is unable to provide the information that would The net amount and the special allow Saab to report these obligations as a defined-benefit plan, owing to which they ­employer’s contribution is reported in the following items in the statement are reported as a defined-contribution plan. All newly earned pensions are secured of financial position through the pension fund solution. As a result, no additional premiums are paid to Alecta. Provisions for pensions (excluding special employer’s contribution) 2,686 2,686 The collective funding ratio is calculated as the market value of Alecta’s assets as a percentage of the insurance obligations calculated according to Alecta’s ­actuarial Provisions for pensions (related to methods and assumptions, which differ from IAS 19. The collective ­funding ratio is special employer’s contribution) 738 738 normally permitted to range between 125 and 155 per cent. At year-end 2018, Long-term receivables 34 6 40 ­Alecta’s surplus in the form of the collective funding ratio was 161 per cent (154). 116 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 N otes Note 32, cont. Cost reported in the income statement Changes in net obligation for defined-benefit plans reported in the statement of financial position 2018 Group Group MSEK Sweden USA Switzerland Total MSEK 2018 2017 Current service costs 266 14 6 286 Net obligation for defined-benefit plans, 1 January 2,646 2,424 Net interest expense 68 -1 67 Compensation paid -315 -284 Cost of defined-benefit plans Deposits to pension fund and other funding -128 -10 in the income statement 334 13 6 353 Cost reported in the income statement 353 348 Cost of defined-contribution plans 830 Income (-) /cost (+) reported in other comprehensive income 1,383 152 Special employer’s contribution 252 Settlement/translation differences -4 6 Total cost of post-employment benefits 1,435 Withdrawals from pension funds 164 10 Net obligation for defined-benefit plans, 31 December 4,099 2,646 2017 Group MSEK Sweden USA Switzerland Total Change in pension obligation Current service costs 259 14 6 279 Group Net interest expense 71 -2 69 MSEK 2018 2017 Cost of defined-benefit plans Fair value, 1 January 9,341 8,608 in the income statement 330 12 6 348 Benefits vested during the year 285 278 Cost of defined-contribution plans 725 Benefits vested previous years Special employer’s contribution 259 Interest expense 233 237 Total cost of post-employment Pension disbursements -315 -284 benefits 1,332 Settlement 1 -8 Actuarial gain (-)/loss (+) 1,162 552 Items included in the statement of cash flow Translation differences 45 -42 2018 Group Fair value, 31 December 10,752 9,341 MSEK Sweden USA Switzerland Total Deposits to pension fund Change in assets under management and other funding -122 -1 -5 -128 Group Payments -271 -53 9 -315 MSEK 2018 2017 Withdrawals 120 53 -9 164 Fair value, 1 January 6,695 6,184 Total impact on cash flow -273 -1 -5 -279 Financial income 167 170 Withdrawals -164 -10 2017 Group Settlement -12 MSEK Sweden USA Switzerland Total Contributions 128 10 Deposits to pension fund Actuarial gain (+)/loss (-) -221 400 and other funding -3 -7 -10 Translation differences 48 -47 Payments -274 -5 -5 -284 Fair value, 31 December 6,653 6,695 Withdrawals 5 5 10 Total impact on cash flow -277 -7 -284 Interest expense on the pension obligation less financial income on assets under management is classified as financial expense. Other pension costs are divided by Estimated payments during 2019 amount to approximately MSEK 315. function in the income statement in relation to how payroll expenses are charged to the various functions. Actuarial gains and losses are reported in other comprehensive income. ­Actuarial losses related to pensions amounted to MSEK 1 383 in 2018 primarily due to the Sensitivity analysis (excluding special employer’s contribution) ­following. Group The return on assets under management was lower than expected, which Change in ­produced an actuarial loss of MSEK 221. MSEK Change obligation The actuarial loss on pension obligations amounted to MSEK 1,162, of which MSEK 908 related to 25 basis points lower discount rate and 25 basis points higher Discount rate 0.25% -483 inflation assumptions. Remaining actuarial loss of MSEK 254 relate to experience -0.25% 518 adjustments. Changes in demographic assumptions have not had a significant Inflation 0.25% 502 effect. The actuarial loss related to special employer’s contribution amounted to -0.25% -470 MSEK 328 in 2018. Salaries 0.25% 111 -0.25% -106 Life span + 1 year 436 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 117 N otes Note 32, cont. Return on assets under management Long-term salary increase assumption: The long-term salary increase assumpGroup tion corresponds to a real salary increase of 1 per cent plus an inflation assumption MSEK 2018 2017 of 2 per cent, rendering a future salary increase of 3 per cent. Actual return on assets under management -54 570 Long-term inflation assumption: The long-term inflation assumption is based on market pricing of inflation on maturities corresponding to the pension liability’s Financial income on assets under management -167 -170 ­duration. For 2018, the assumption is 2 per cent. Actuarial result from assets under management Mortality: Mortality is the same assumption recommended by the Financial during the year -221 400 ­Supervisory Authority (FFFS 2007:31). Employee turnover: The employee turnover is assumed to be 3 per cent per year. Governance The pension fund is governed by the Pension Board, which resumes 4–5 times per year and has the following responsibilities: ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES PARENT COMPANY • Appoint the members of the Investment Committee The parent company’s accounting principles differ from IAS 19 in the following ways: • Appoint the Fund Manger • The calculation does not take into account future salary increases • Annually establish the Investment Policy • The discount rate is determined by PRI • Decide on strategic (long-term) and tactical (short-term) asset allocation and allow • Changes in the discount rate and other actuarial assumptions are recognised deviations in accordance with the terms of the SAA and TAA mandate directly in the income statement and balance sheet • Annually approve the benchmark indices to track the fund’s performance • Surplus in the pension plan cannot be recognised as an asset while the deficit • Annually approve the stop loss limit should either be expensed or recovered through contributions to the pension fund Investment strategy and risk management The pension fund manages the allocation and investment of assets with an aim to Parent Company’s pension obligations increase the consolidation level over time. Certain risks are accepted in order to Funds allocated for pensions according to the balance sheet correspond to the net achieve the desired return. The investment horizon is long-term and the allocation present value of existing pension obligations less funds that are secured by Saab’s ensures that the investment portfolio is well diversified. pension fund. The Fund’s investments are subject to a number of restrictions and limitations, the purpose of which is to limit investment losses. Treasury Operations continuously MSEK 31-12-2018 31-12-2017 monitors the Fund’s management and reports its findings to the Chairman of the Pension obligations ITP 2 4,455 4,278 Board and the Investment Committee. Less funds secured in pension fund -4,455 -4,278 Total ITP 2 and the book reserve method Assets under management divided by asset class Other pensions 97 91 Group Other provisions for pensions 145 161 of which of which listed on listed on Total 242 252 an active an active Of which credit guarantees in PRI Pensionsgaranti 38 44 Per cent 2018 market 2017 market Interest-bearing assets 37 100 39 100 MSEK 2018 2017 Share-related assets 33 100 36 100 Amount related to pension obligations ITP 2 Hedge funds 11 9 ­expected to be settled within 12 months 197 190 Property 19 14 Liquid assets 2 Total assets 100 70 100 75 NOTE 33 PROVISIONS Assumptions for defined-benefit obligations Group ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES Per cent 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 A provision is recognised in the statement of financial position when the Group Significant actuarial assumptions has a legal or informal obligation owing to an event that has occurred and it is as of closing day (expressed as likely that an outflow of economic resources will be required to settle the weighted averages)1) ­obligation and a ­reliable estimate of the amount can be made. Where it is Discount rate, 31 December 2.25 2.50 2.75 3.25 2.50 ­important when in time payment will be made, provisions are estimated by Future salary increase 3.00 2.75 2.75 2.75 2.50 ­discounting projected cash flow at a pre-tax interest rate that reflects current Future increase in pensions 2.00 1.75 1.75 1.75 1.50 market estimates of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks Employee turnover 3.00 3.00 3.00 3.00 3.00 associated with the liability. 1) Refers to Sweden since essentially all defined-benefit plans are in Sweden. Provisions for incremental costs for industrial cooperations Some of Saab’s contracts with customers contain requirements on technology The following assumptions serve as the basis of the valuation of Saab’s and knowledge transfers as well as various forms of industrial cooperation. The pension liability: related costs are included in the project’s expenditures and expensed in relation to the stage of completion. The expenditures are then set against this provision, Discount rate: The valuation has been based on Swedish covered mortgage bonds which can also occur after the delivery of goods and services under the contract. (AAA), taking into account the duration of all cash flows. A nominal government bond whose duration corresponds to the average duration of Onerous contracts the pension obligation is used as a basis. A premium is then added equal to the A provision for an onerous contract is recognised when anticipated benefits are ­difference between the interest rate on a mortgage bond and a nominal government less than the unavoidable costs to fulfill the obligations as set out in the contract. bond with similar maturities. The same discount rate has been used for all future ­disbursements. Guarantees A provision for guarantees is normally recognised when the underlying products or services are sold if a reliable calculation of the provision can be made. The provision is based on historical data on guarantees for the products or similar products and an overall appraisal of possible outcomes in relation to the likelihood associated with these outcomes. 118 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 N otes Note 33, cont. Restructuring Guarantees A provision for restructuring is recognised when a detailed, formal restructuring Parent plan has been established and the restructuring has either begun or been p ­ ublicly MSEK Group Company announced. No provision is made for future operating losses. Opening balance, 1 January 2018 174 89 A provision is recognised in connection with termination of personnel only if Provisions allocated during the year 58 18 the company is obligated to terminate an employment before the customary Amount utilised during the year -67 -25 time, e.g., when compensation is paid in connection with a voluntary termination offer. In cases where the company terminates personnel, a detailed plan is drafted Reversal of unutilised amount -4 -2 containing at the minimum the workplaces, positions and approximate number of Reclassification -8 -4 individuals affected as well as compensation for each personnel category or Closing balance, 31 December 2018 153 76 position and a schedule for the plan’s implementation. Expenditures for restructuring measures Soil remediation Parent In accordance with the Group’s publicly announced environmental policy and MSEK Group Company applicable legal requirements, periodic estimates are made of Saab’s obligations Opening balance, 1 January 2018 27 20 to restore contaminated soil. Anticipated future payments are discounted to present value and recognised as an operating expense and a provision. ­Provision Provisions allocated during the year 248 248 for environmental commitments is included in other provisions below. Amount utilised during the year -82 -82 Reversal of unutilised amount -4 Group Reclassification -1 MSEK 31-12-2018 31-12-2017 Closing balance, 31 December 2018 188 186 Provisions that are long-term liabilities Incremental costs for industrial cooperations 567 497 Other provisions Parent Onerous contracts 39 81 MSEK Group Company Guarantees 56 60 Opening balance, 1 January 2018 540 98 Expenditures for restructuring measures 42 9 Provisions allocated during the year 118 6 Other 377 377 Amount utilised during the year -122 -15 Total 1,081 1,024 Reversal of unutilised amount -3 -1 Reclassification 38 76 Provisions that are current liabilities Translation differences and other -4 Incremental costs for industrial cooperations 15 10 Closing balance, 31 December 2018 567 164 Onerous contracts 168 183 Guarantees 97 114 Total provisions Expenditures for restructuring measures 146 18 Parent Other 190 158 MSEK Group Company Total 616 483 Opening balance, 1 January 2018 1,512 837 Provisions allocated during the year 814 556 Parent Company Amount utilised during the year -614 -382 MSEK 31-12-2018 31-12-2017 Reversal of unutilised amount -7 2 Incremental costs for industrial cooperations 567 497 Reclassification -5 72 Onerous contracts 92 133 Translation differences and other -3 Guarantees 76 89 Closing balance, 31 December 2018 1,697 1,085 Expenditures for restructuring measures 186 20 Other 164 98 Incremental costs for industrial cooperations Total 1,085 837 Some of Saab’s contracts with customers contain requirements on technology and knowledge transfers as well as various forms of industrial cooperation. Provision for incremental costs for industrial cooperations relates to costs to Incremental costs for industrial cooperations meet future obligations for industrial cooperations in accordance with these Parent ­contracts. The expenditure is expected to occur during the term of the projects but MSEK Group Company also after the delivery of goods and services under the contracts in accordance with Opening balance, 1 January 2018 507 497 the contract and the regulation for industrial cooperation. Provisions allocated during the year 201 196 Amount utilised during the year -126 -126 Restructuring Closing balance, 31 December 2018 582 567 Structural costs primarily relate to costs to adapt resources and transformation costs. The expenditure is expected to occur 2019. Onerous contracts Onerous contracts Parent Provisions for onerous contracts on the closing day relate to certain military MSEK Group Company ­projects. Opening balance, 1 January 2018 264 133 The provisions are utilised in pace with the project’s completion. Provisions allocated during the year 189 88 Amount utilised during the year -217 -134 Other provisions Other provisions primarily relate to provisions for remaining costs in projects, Reversal of unutilised amount 4 5 for environmental commitments as well as for royalty. Reclassification -34 No provision has been made for liability risks associated with the production Translation differences and other 1 of civil aircraft or the production of sub-components for civil aircraft. Closing balance, 31 December 2018 207 92 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 119 F I n a n cial stateme n ts NOTE 34 OTHER LIABILITIES NOTE 36 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT AND FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Group MSEK 31-12-2018 31-12-2017 Saab’s financial assets and liabilities and contractual obligations give rise to Other long-term liabilities financial risks. These risks are managed to a large extent with various financial Liabilities to previous owners and minority owners 83 123 ­instruments. Group Treasury is responsible for managing the financial risks. The Board of Liabilities related to employees 50 52 ­Directors of Saab has established a Group Treasury Policy, which provides an overall Other 57 35 description of the management of the financial risks and Treasury operations. Total 190 210 The goal is to identify and actively manage the financial risks in order to reduce Of which liabilities due for payment any negative impact on the Group’s results, competitive strength and financial more than five years after closing day 112 159 ­flexibility. Other current liabilities The financial risks are defined as follows: Value-added tax 271 316 • Foreign currency risk Employee withholding taxes 274 265 • Liquidity risk • Refinancing risk Liabilities to associated companies and joint ventures 4 20 • Interest rate risk Other 221 204 • Commodity price risk Total 770 805 • Credit and counterparty risk • Pension obligations Parent Company MSEK 31-12-2018 31-12-2017 Group Treasury has a risk mandate expressed as VaR (Value at Risk) of MSEK 50 (50). The mandate is divided between management of the financial risks related Value-added tax 83 181 to fixed price tenders and to a limited extent trading. Risks are managed through Employee withholding taxes 169 161 various portfolios and are reported daily according to defined risk measures. Other 355 218 Management of the Group’s funding and investment of liquid assets, customer Total 607 560 financing, guarantees and insurance is centralised in Group Treasury. In certain limited cases, insurance is managed by the Group’s insurance company, Lansen Of which liabilities due for payment more than five years after closing day 13 13 Försäkrings AB. ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES Saab considers that there is no significant difference between book and fair value. Recognition and valuation of financial assets and liabilities A financial asset or liability is recognised in the statement of financial position NOTE 35 ACCRUED EXPENSES when the company becomes party to the instrument’s contractual terms. Accounts receivable are recognised in the statement of financial position when AND DEFERRED INCOME an invoice has been sent. A financial asset is removed from the statement of financial position when the Group Parent Company rights in the contract are realised, expire or the company loses control over the MSEK 31-12-2018 31-12-2017 31-12-2018 31-12-2017 asset. The same applies to part of a financial asset. A financial liability is removed Accrued expenses from the statement of financial position when the obligation in the agreement has been discharged or otherwise extinguished. The same applies to part of a finanAccrued project costs 2,049 1,459 1,127 527 cial liability. Vacation pay liability 1,160 1,126 780 760 On each reporting date, Saab evaluates whether there are objective indications Social security expenses 749 775 604 614 that a financial asset or pool of financial assets, which are not recognised at fair Expected invoices 436 407 275 263 value through profit or loss, are in need of write-down. Financial assets and liabilities Personnel liabilities 286 301 178 206 are offset and recognised as a net amount in the statement of financial position when there is a legal right to a set-off and when the intent is to settle the items with a Royalties and net amount or to realise the asset and settle the liability at the same time. commissions 26 31 21 27 Financial instruments are initially recognised at cost, corresponding to the Claims reserve 17 90 1 ­instrument’s fair value plus transaction expenses. The same applies to all financial Other 159 128 67 61 instruments with the exception of those in the category financial assets and liabiliTotal accrued ties at fair value through profit or loss, where cost excluding transaction expenses expenses 4,882 4,317 3,052 2,459 equals fair value. The instruments are subsequently recognised at fair value or amortised cost, depending on how they have been classified as follows. The fair Deferred income value of listed financial assets and liabilities is determined using market prices. Capitalised changes in Saab also applies various valuation methods to determine the fair value of financial value related to forward assets and liabilities traded on an inactive market or that are unlisted holdings. contract rollovers 326 231 These valuation methods are based on the valuation of similar instruments, Other 215 166 77 65 ­discounted cash flows or accepted valuation models such as Garman-Kohlhagens. Amortised cost is determined based on the effective interest rate calculated on the Total deferred income 215 166 403 296 acquisition date. Total 5,097 4,483 3,455 2,755 Classification of financial assets and liabilities The Group’s financial assets and liabilities are classified according to the Saab considers that there is no significant difference between book and fair value. ­following categories, which determine how each item is valued. Financial assets and liabilities at amortised cost: Financial assets in this category are assets that are held to collect contractual cash flows that consist of principal and interest, such as liquid assets, accounts receivable, loans receivable, other receivables and contract assets in accordance with IFRS 15. Interest income is recognised as financial interest income by applying the effective interest method. Gains and losses that arise upon derecognition from the balance sheet are recognised directly in profit or loss together with FX effects. Financial liabilities in this category refer to interest-bearing liabilities, accounts payable and other liabilities that are initially recognised at fair value, which corre120 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 F I n a n cial stateme n ts Note 36, cont. sponds to the amount received after deducting transaction costs. Previous accounting principle and transition to IFRS 9 After acquisition, the liabilities are measured at amortised cost according to the Saab has applied the IASB standard IFRS 9 Financial instruments for the first time effective interest method. in the fiscal year 2018. IFRS 9 addresses the classification, measurement and recognition of financial assets and liabilities and introduces new rules on hedge Financial assets and liabilities at fair value accounting and impairment of financial receivables, and replaces the majority of through other comprehensive income: the guidance in IAS 39. Financial assets in this category are assets that result in payments related only to The transition to IFRS 9 has not had a material effect on the Group’s income principal and interest on the outstanding principal and where the financial asset is statement or financial position. Hedge accounting is not affected, but Saab is held under a business model whose purpose is achieved both by holding financial transitioning to IFRS 9’s hedge accounting, which is an option in the standard. assets to collect contractual cash flows and selling financial assets. These assets The new rules for classifying financial assets do not entail any changes other than are subsequently measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in that a loan to an associated company according to IFRS 9 is recognised at fair other comprehensive income (OCI), except effective interest, impairments and value through profit and loss rather than at amortised cost. The loan amounted to their reversal as well as exchange rate gains and losses, which are presented in MSEK 26 as of 1 January 2018. The effect on the opening equity balance in 2018 profit or loss. When the asset is derecognised from the balance sheet, accumuwas MSEK -4, which is attributable to impairment of receivables from associated lated gains and losses in OCI are reclassified to profit or loss. companies and joint ventures. For more information, see note 45. For the Parent Company, Saab AB, the opening equity balance in 2018 was Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss: affected by MSEK -8, attributable to impairment of receivables from subsidiaries, Assets that do not satisfy the requirements to be recognised at amortised cost associated companies and joint ventures. or fair value through other comprehensive income are measured at fair value through profit or loss. Gains or losses on assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss that are not included in a hedging relationship are netted in profit or FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS loss in the period the gain or loss arises. Derivatives included in a hedging Financial instruments within the Group mainly consist of liquid assets, accounts ­relationship are recognised in other comprehensive income for the portion receivable, shares, loans receivable, bonds receivable, derivatives with positive ­determined to be an effective hedge. Equity instruments such as shares and ­market values, certain accrued income and other receivables. The liability side ­participations are measured continuously at fair value with changes in value includes accounts payable, loans payable, derivatives with negative market values, ­recognised in profit or loss. certain accrued expenses and other liabilities. Impairment of financial assets: Accounts receivable and contract assets are tested for impairment on each Classification and categorisation ­closing date using a model based on expected credit losses. Impairment losses of financial assets and liabilities 2) Carrying amount are recognised in profit or loss. Derecognition from the balance sheet occurs 31-12-2018 31-12-2017 when there is no longer a reasonable expectation of collecting payment. See also Financial assets note 26. Valued at amortised cost4): Hedge accounting Accounts receivable, contract assets and other receivables 16,254 13,133 To meet the requirements for hedge accounting there must be an economic ­relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item and the Liquid assets 2,451 2,202 ­hedging relationship must be effective until the hedge matures. Long-term receivables 548 481 To cover the Group’s risks associated with changes in exchange rates and Valued at fair value through profit and loss3): exposure to interest rates, derivatives, consisting of forward exchange contracts, Short-term investments 9,003 4,469 options and swaps, are utilised. They are recognised initially and in subsequent revaluations at fair value, that is, at each reporting date. Derivatives for trading 148 109 Changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not meet the requirements for Financial investments 27 26 hedge accounting are recognised directly in profit or loss. If the underlying hedged Derivatives identified as hedges 948 1,030 items relate to operations-related receivables or liabilities, the effect on earnings is Total financial assets 29,379 21,450 recognised in operating income, while the corresponding effect on earnings related to financial receivables and liabilities is recognised in financial net. Financial liabilities The Group applies hedge accounting to cash flow hedges as follows. Valued at amortised cost: Interest-bearing liabilities¹⁾ 9,264 6,327 Cash flow hedges Other liabilities4) 8,626 6,934 Forward exchange contracts (hedge instruments) entered into mainly to hedge Valued at fair value through profit and loss3): future receipts and disbursements against currency risks and classified as cash flow hedges (primarily related to contracted sales volumes) are recognised in the Derivatives for trading 74 86 statement of financial position at fair value. Changes in value are recognised in Derivatives identified as hedges 1,160 1,007 other comprehensive income and separately recognised in the hedge reserve in Total financial liabilities 19,124 14,354 equity until the hedged cash flow meets the operating income, at which point the cumulative changes in value of the hedging instrument are transferred to profit or 1) Fair value 9,437 6,412 loss to meet the effects on earnings of the hedged transaction. 2) Derivatives with positive values are recognised as assets and derivatives with negative values When the hedged future cash flow refers to a transaction that will be capitalare recognised as liabilities. Derivatives with a legal right of offset amount to MSEK 947. ised in the statement of financial position, the hedge reserve is dissolved when 3) The impact of credit risk on these instruments is considered low given the limits in the current the hedged item is recognised in the statement of financial position. If the hedged ­investment policy. item is a non-financial asset or liability, the reversal is included in the original cost 4) Carrying amount, in Saab’s assessment, essentially corresponds to fair value. of the asset or liability. If the hedged item is a financial asset or liability, the hedge reserve is dissolved gradually through profit or loss at the same rate that the Valuation of financial instruments at fair value are divided into the following three hedged item affects earnings. ­valuation levels: When a hedging instrument expires, is sold, terminated or exercised, or the Level 1 company otherwise revokes the designation as a hedging relationship before the According to listed (unadjusted) prices on an active market on the closing date: hedged transaction occurs and the projected transaction is still expected to • Bonds and interest-bearing securities occur, the recognised cumulative gain or loss remains in the hedge reserve in • Electricity derivatives equity and is recognised in the same way as above when the transaction occurs. • Interest rate forwards If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the hedging ­instrument’s cumulative gains and losses are immediately recognised in profit or loss in accordance with principles described above for derivatives. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 121 F I n a n cial stateme n ts Note 36, cont. Level 2 In 2018, about MSEK 35, expressed as VaR, was allocated to the tender portfolio, According to accepted valuation models based on observable market data from and at year-end VaR amounted to MSEK 4.4 (17). Hedge accounting is not applied to Reuters Datascope: the portfolio’s hedges, due to which the Group’s result is affected by the outcome of • Forward exchange contracts: Future payment flows in each currency are the tenders and the exchange rate for the underlying currency pair. The portfolio’s ­discounted by current market rates to the valuation day and valued in SEK at effect on the Group’s result in 2018 was MSEK -266 (54). ­period-end exchange rates. • Options: The Garman-Kohlhagens option-pricing model is used in the market Translation exposure ­valuation of all options. Comprehensive income is affected when the results and net assets of foreign • Interest rate swaps and cross currency basis swaps: Future variable interest rates ­subsidiaries are translated to SEK. The value of net assets exposed to transaction are calculated with the help of current forward rates. These implicit interest exposure amounted to MSEK 5,237 (4,951) at year-end; see the following table. ­payments are discounted to the valuation date using current market rates. The market value of interest rate swaps is obtained by contrasting the discounted Net assets translated to SEK ­variable interest payments with the discounted present value of fixed interest MSEK 31-12-2018 31-12-2017 ­payments. USD 2,015 2,057 Level 3 EUR 862 778 According to accepted principles, e.g. for venture capital firms: AUD 775 651 • Unlisted shares and participations ZAR 475 392 GBP 334 307 As of 31 December 2018, the Group had the following financial assets and liabilities DKK 138 78 at fair value: BRL 142 142 Assets at fair value Other currencies 496 546 MSEK 2018 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 5,237 4,951 Bonds and interest-bearing securities 9,003 9,003 The effect on net assets as of 31 December 2018 of a change in exchange rates of Forward exchange contracts 961 961 +/– 10 per cent would be a change in value of MSEK 524. Foreign currency risk due to translation effects on the net assets of foreign Currency options 4 4 subsidiaries is not hedged. Cross currency basis swaps 97 97 Electricity derivatives 34 34 Transaction exposure Shares and participations 27 27 Contracted flows in the order backlog are exposed to transaction exposure. Total 10,126 9,037 1,062 27 Saab hedges the currency exposure in the order backlog with currency derivatives (mainly forward exchange contracts), which means that changes in exchange rates do not affect the Group’s future results with respect to the current order backlog. Liabilities at fair value To reduce the transaction exposure, amounts in foreign currency are netted as well. MSEK 2018 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Hedges are normally arranged for each specific contract. The average Forward exchange contracts 1,151 1,151 forward rate is then used as the contract’s rate for revenue recognition. Currency options 4 4 In 2018, countries outside Sweden accounted for 59 per cent (58) of Saab’s sales. Since a large share of production takes place in Sweden with expenses denomiInterest rate swaps 79 79 nated in SEK, Saab has a large net exposure in foreign currencies. Total 1,234 1,234 The predominant contract currencies in the order backlog of SEK 102.2 billion (107.2) are SEK, USD, EUR and GBP. Of the total order backlog, 66 per cent (2) 56 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT is in fixed prices with or without indexing, while the remaining 34 per cent (44) Foreign currency risk contains variable prices with index and/or currency clauses. Foreign currency risk refers to the risk that fluctuations in exchange rates will In the event the cash flow is far in the future, an extension strategy can be applied, negatively affect income or net assets. the currency hedge can be shifted to an earlier date than when the cash flow is expected and hedge accounting for that time period is then applied to changes in Economic exposure the spot price. Income is affected when sales and the cost of goods and services sold are in Impairment of unprofitable contracts in foreign currency that are not hedged currencies other than the functional currency. Foreign currency risk also arises when against foreign currency risk is based on the valuation of future cash flows at the fixed-price tenders are issued in foreign currency. spot rate. These contracts mainly refer to anticipated future orders as part of Outstanding fixed-price tenders in foreign currency are usually managed in a ­long-term commercial aircraft programmes in USD. special portfolio, the tender portfolio. The following table shows outstanding Framework agreements contain both transaction and economic exposure and ­nominal net hedges for the most predominant currencies as of year-end. mainly apply to the various commercial aircraft programmes. Hedge accounting according to IFRS 9 is applied to derivatives that hedge the Forward transaction exposure. The hedge is effective when the hedging relationship is contracts1) Options2) Total hedge included and periodically evaluated to ensure that the criteria for effectiveness are Net hedges ­(million) 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 still met. The factors that are examined to ensure the effectiveness are currency, ­timing of payment flows and amount. If the flow generated by the hedging instrument USD -39 -45 -30 -172 -69 -217 matches the flow from the hedged item in currency, timing and amount, the hedging EUR 39 -74 -55 -105 -94 -179 relationship is considered effective. Until maturity, value changes in effective are GBP 4 -3 4 -3 ­recognised in other comprehensive income and recognised separately in the hedge DKK -26 -26 reserve in equity. Value changes in ineffective hedges are recognised in profit or loss. The ineffectiveness can arise if the timing and/or amount of the planned/projected ZAR 40 40 flow changes. Since portions of the portfolio extend over long periods, effects from 1) Also including sold calland put options. forward points could also be a source of ineffectiveness. Hedging relationships are 2) Net of bought calland put options. arranged such that adjustments are made continuously to avoid this effect. ­Inefficiency affecting net income for the year amounted to MSEK 0 (0). The tender portfolio’s external hedges are measured in relation to the benchmark in The market value of existing hedges of the order backlog and framework agreeorder to allocate VaR. The benchmark corresponds to the external hedge that would ments amounted to MSEK -167 (73). Currency sensitivity, i.e. the effect of a change optimally be done to entirely eliminate the exchange rate risk that a tender gives rise in exchange rates of +/10 per cent, would affect the market value of derivatives as to in relation to the likelihood that a business contract is received. If the two correof 31 December 2018 by +/MSEK 619 (223). The inefficiency in the cash flow spond, the tender portfolio will by definition be risk-neutral – i.e. its VaR measure will hedges that affected net income for the year amounted to MSEK 0 (0). be zero. 122 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 F I n a n cial stateme n ts Note 36, cont. The following table shows the cash flows for derivatives recognised as cash flow hedges, expressed in millions in local currency. EUR GBP USD Million Outflow Inflow Net Outflow Inflow Net Outflow Inflow Net 2019 -118 218 100 -108 71 -37 -432 503 71 2020 -139 64 -75 -73 29 -44 -334 755 421 2021 -3 24 21 -51 7 -44 -387 786 399 2022 -1 23 22 -42 8 -34 -146 112 -34 2023 -1 12 11 -39 7 -32 -99 24 -75 2024 and forward 20 20 -7 10 3 Total flows 2018 -262 361 99 -320 132 -188 -1,398 2,180 782 Total flows 2017 -276 294 18 -246 103 -143 -1,457 1,886 429 Currency exposure The Group’s total outstanding currency derivatives related to all currency risks are shown in the following table. The Group’s outstanding derivatives Currency derivatives Fair value 2018 2017 Million Currency Local currency Asset SEK Liability SEK Net Local Currency Net Maturity up to 1 year EUR -205 49 69 -20 -249 -36 GBP 42 23 34 -11 -20 12 USD -323 325 370 -45 -687 -99 Other 19 37 -18 -8 Subtotal 416 510 -94 -131 Maturity 1 to 3 years EUR 51 94 45 49 59 8 GBP 82 19 55 -36 66 -18 USD -798 331 412 -81 -105 229 Other 13 4 9 10 Subtotal 457 516 -59 229 Maturity 3 to 5 years EUR -34 2 14 -12 -9 -4 GBP 65 1 89 -88 55 -86 USD 120 89 18 71 -96 96 Other 1 -1 Subtotal 92 122 -30 6 Maturity over 5 years EUR -20 5 -5 GBP 5 2 -2 20 -34 USD 82 -21 Subtotal 7 -7 -55 Currency derivatives, total1)2) 965 1,155 -190 49 1) Retained premiums on open currency contracts amount to MSEK -3 (-19). 2) Of which derivatives used as cash flow hedge MSEK 67 (-1). The Parent Company’s outstanding derivatives Currency derivatives Fair value 2018 2017 Million Currency Local currency Asset SEK Liability SEK Net Local Currency Net EUR -62 175 145 30 -122 -16 GBP 188 47 208 -161 656 121 USD -777 748 760 -12 102 -136 Other 32 44 -12 -2 Currency derivatives, Parent Company total 1,002 1,157 -155 -33 Liquidity risk Saab has access to the following credit facilities: Liquidity risk refers to the risk of not being able to meet payment obligations due to Loan facilities insufficient liquidity. The company consistently maintains unutilised credit facilities MSEK Facility Utilised Available or liquid assets corresponding in value to MSEK 4,000, adjusted for loans with matuRevolving credit facility (maturity 2022) 6,000 6,000 rity dates within 12 months but never less than 10 per cent of sales (total sales). Overdraft facility (maturity 2019) 43 43 In addition Treasury closely monitor all guarantees issued by banks and calculate a risk weighted amount to be held in liquid assets. Total confirmed credit facilities 6,043 6,043 Liquidity risk is minimised by diversifying financing sources and maturities. For Commercial paper 5,000 5,000 maturity analysis of the Group’s financial liabilities, see tables for each class of derivaMedium Term Notes (MTN) 10,000 7,731 2,269 tives in this note as well as information on interest-bearing liabilities in note 30. The Total loan programmes 15,000 7,731 7,269 Group’s other financial liabilities include accounts payable with credit terms normally within 30-90 days as well as other operating liabilities which are classified as current. Total loan facilities 21,043 7,731 13,312 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 123 F I n a n cial stateme n ts Note 36, cont. Saab has two revolving credit facilities with an equivalent value of MSEK 6,000 Investment portfolio divided between eight banks. Both facilities have a term of five years to 2022. Saab The investment portfolio consists of investments in interest-bearing securities and also has a commercial paper programme with a limit of MSEK 5,000 (5,000) and a interest rate derivatives. The portfolio’s average duration falls in the range of 3–24 Medium Term Note (MTN) programme with a limit of MSEK 10,000 (6,000). As of months (3–24). As of year-end, the duration was 3 months (10). An increase in 31 December 2018, MSEK 0 (0) in commercial paper and MSEK 7,731 (4,812) in ­market interest rates of 0.10 per cent would affect financial income by ­-3 MSEK. MTN had been issued. A corresponding decrease in market interest rates of 0.10 per cent would positively In addition to these credit facilities, as part of efforts to diversify funding sources, affect financial income by ­3 MSEK based on the investment portfolio as of Saab has borrowed MEUR 100 under a Schuldschein documentation. In addition, 31 December 2018. Saab has an established programme for the sale of trade receivables with a framework of MSEK 1,425, of which MSEK 0 (0) was utilised at 31 December 2018. Saab’s aim is Investments in interest-bearing securities and bank deposits to utilise this programme in situations where greater financial flexibility is needed. MSEK (Nom) No financial covenants are attached to any of Saab’s credit facilities. Maturities Fixed interest 1) Tied-up capital 1 year 10,126 6,866 Refinancing risk Refinancing risk refers to the risk that Saab cannot replace maturing loans with either 2 years -300 200 new loans or its own funds. To minimise this risk, Saab maintains a diversified loan 3 years 100 1,310 maturity structure; see the table under funding. Capital is tied up in Saab’s loan 4 years 120 420 ­portfolio for an average in the range of 24-60 months. As of 31 December 2018 this 5 years and forward 300 1,550 amounted to 43 months. Total 10,346 10,346 As part of the effort to minimize refinancing risk, MTN loans with maturity in December 2018 has been repurchased at a nominal amount of MSEK 691 and 1) Effects of derivative agreements entered are included in the fixed interest. replaced with new MTN loans maturing in 2021 at a nominal amount of MSEK 950 and loans maturing in 2023 at a nominal amount of MSEK 120. Forward exchange contracts Forward exchange contracts used to hedge commercial currency flows contain Interest rate risk an interest component. In certain cases, Saab may decide to shift the hedge to an Interest rate risk refers to the risk that Saab will be negatively affected by changes in earlier date than when the cash flow is expected. This primarily refers to very longinterest rate levels. Interest rate futures and swaps are used to manage interest rate term customer contracts, which then generate an interest rate risk. The underlying risks and achieve the desired interest rate duration. Lending to subsidiaries in foreign cash flows that are exposed to extensions through forward exchange contracts currency is normally financed in SEK and converted to the subsidiary’s currency amounted to MUSD 84 (271) at year-end. through swaps. Interest rate risk and foreign currency risk is managed with cross currency basis swaps. Interest rate derivatives Saab is exposed to interest rate risk when the market value of certain items in the The table below shows the Group’s outstanding interest rate derivatives. statement of financial position is affected by changes in underlying interest rates. The item with the largest exposure is pension obligations due to the liability’s long duration. Interest rate derivatives Fair value 2018 2017 Local Asset Liability Local Changes in market rates affect Saab’s net financial items. Million Currency currency SEK SEK Net Currency Net Maturity up to 1 year SEK 1,475 15 -15 150 -3 Loan portfolio The loan portfolio consists of loans and interest rate derivatives. The portfolio’s Subtotal 15 -15 -3 average duration falls in the range of 12-48 months (12-48). As of year-end, the loan Maturity 1 to 3 years SEK 1,125 14 -14 2,200 -46 portfolio’s duration was 31 months (31). EUR2) 80 80 80 85 48 The interest rates on long-term floating-rate funding are primarily hedged at fixed Subtotal 80 14 66 2 rates through interest rate swaps. Outstanding interest rate swaps cover approxiMaturity 3 to 5 years SEK 1,750 13 -13 1,750 -12 mately 83 per cent of outstanding floating-rate loans as of 31 December 2018. Cash flow hedging is applied in the financial statements. The effectiveness of a EUR2) 20 17 17 15 3 hedge is evaluated when the hedging relationship is included and periodically Subtotal 17 13 4 -9 ­evaluated to ensure that the relationship meets the requirement. The factors that are Maturity over 5 years SEK 1,500 36 -36 evaluated to ensure effectiveness are the timing of payment flows and amount of Subtotal 36 -36 interest payments as well as the nominal amount of the hedging instrument and the hedged item. If the nominal amount of the hedging instrument does not exceed the Interest derivatives, total 1)3) 97 78 19 -10 nominal amount of the hedged item and the flows generated by the hedging ­instrument do not exceed the flows from the hedged item in timing and amount, the 1) Market value includes accrued interest of MSEK -20 (-6). hedging relationship is considered effective. Until maturity, value changes in effec2) Refers to cross currency basis swaps (CCY). 3) Of which derivatives used for cash flow hedges MSEK -57 (-53). tive hedges are recognised in other comprehensive income and recognised separately, in the hedge reserve in equity. The value change is recognised in the financial Commodity price risk net when it is transferred to profit or loss. Value changes in ineffective hedges are Commodity price risk refers to the risk that Saab will be negatively affected by recognised in profit or loss. Inefficiency affecting net income for the year amounted changes in commodity prices. Purchasing costs for raw materials are managed prito MSEK 0 (0). An increase or decrease in market interest rates of +/0.10 per cent marily through contract clauses with customers and suppliers. Electricity costs are would affect financial income by +/1 MSEK and other comprehensive income by managed through hedging instruments. Electricity directives are managed through +/-23 MSEK based on the loan portfolio as of 31 December 2018. a discretionary management mandate. The market value of electricity derivatives at year-end was MSEK 34 (7). Hedge accounting is applied to electricity derivatives. Financing (refers to utilised credit facilities) Projected electricity consumption is hedged using a model where 100 per cent of Of which effect the coming quarter’s consumption is hedged; the hedge ratio then drops on a from derivative straight-line basis to 0 per cent in quarter 13. The effectiveness of the hedge is MSEK (Nom) agreements ­periodically evaluated to ensure that the relationship meets the requirement. Maturities Fixed interest 1) entered Tied-up capital To ensure that the hedge is effective, an evaluation is made to determine that the 1 year 3,493 -4,161 986 hedged volume per quarter does not exceed the projected volume. Value changes 2 years 1,025 425 1,275 in derivatives that exceed the projected volume in a quarter are recognised in profit or loss. Inefficiency affecting net income for the year amounted to MSEK 0 (0). 3 years 400 400 2,091 4 years 1,700 1,350 1,746 5 years and forward 2,039 1,900 2,559 Total 8,657 8,657 1) Effects of derivative agreements entered are included in the fixed interest. 124 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 F I n a n cial stateme n ts Note 36, cont. The Group’s outstanding electricity derivatives Net Master Collateral Electricity derivatives Fair value 2018 2017 amount in netting received/ 2017 Gross balance arrangeassets Net MegaAsset Liability MegaMSEK amount Set-off sheet ments pledged amount watt MSEK MSEK Net watt Net Currency Maturity up to 1 year 13 25 25 12 4 derivatives 1,081 1,081 -853 -4 224 Subtotal 25 25 4 Interest rate Maturity 1 to 3 years 10 9 9 10 3 derivatives Subtotal 9 9 3 CCY1) 51 51 51 Electricity Electricity ­derivatives, total1) 34 34 7 derivatives 7 7 7 1) Of which derivatives used for cash flow hedges MSEK 34 (7). Assets 1,139 1,139 -853 -4 282 Currency Credit and counterparty risks derivatives 1,032 1,032 -853 179 Credit risk is the risk that the counterparty in a transaction will not be able to fulfil the Interest rate financial obligations of a contract. In the course of its day-to-day operations, Saab is derivatives 61 61 61 exposed to credit risks as a result of transactions with counterparties in the form of CCY1) customers, suppliers and financial players. The Group’s aggregate credit risks Electricity ­consist of commercial credit risks and financial credit risks. derivatives Liabilities 1,093 1,093 -853 240 Commercial credit risks Commercial credit risks consist of outstanding accounts receivable and advances 1) Cross currency basis swaps. paid to suppliers. This type of credit risk is identified and managed on a case-by-case basis. Credit risks that arise in customer contracts are managed by utilising The exposure as of 31 December 2018 amounted to MSEK 10,881 (5,855), whereof available banking or insurance products. In some cases, export credit institutions lending to banks, mortgage institutions, companies and the Swedish government may be used as well. Commercial credit risks that arise through advances paid to amounted to MSEK 10,562 (5,462). The exposure is calculated using the market value of suppliers are managed by maintaining bank-guaranteed collateral. At 31 December assets and derivatives with each counterparty. 2018, the Group had paid advances to suppliers of MSEK 42 (44). Hedge reserve Accounts receivable represent a commercial credit risk. Where counterparties’ The hedge reserve before tax amounted to MSEK -461 (-379), of which the creditworthiness is deemed unsatisfactory, bank or insurance guarantees or ­unrealised value of derivatives was MSEK 44 (-46) and the realised effects arising guarantees from EKN are secured to ensure that payment will be received. Since from rollovers of derivatives was MSEK -505 (-333). accounts receivable are generally secured through bank or insurance guarantees or The change in the hedge reserve in 2018 of MSEK 17 consists of a reversal to are attributable to states, the commercial credit risk is low. For more information on profit or loss of MSEK 401, change in the value of existing derivatives of MSEK -26, the Group’s accounts receivable, see note 26. the market value of hedges obtained during the year of MSEK -248, and change that arose due to derivative rollovers of MSEK -226. For information on the amount recogFinancial credit risks nised in other comprehensive income, see consolidated net comprehensive income. Financial credit risk consists of exposures to financial institutions through deposits, The inefficiency in cash flow hedges that affected net income for the year securities investments and/or the market value of outstanding derivatives. amounted to MSEK 0 (0). The Group’s policy for managing financial credit risks is to ensure that all financial counterparties have a long-term credit rating of no lower than Afrom Standard and Effects in the hedge reserve per derivative Poor’s or A3 from Moody’s. Consequently, the risk of credit losses is considered low and there was no need for credit reserves at year-end. 2018 Currency Interest rate Electricity Each financial counterparty is assigned a credit limit based on its long-term MSEK derivatives derivatives derivatives credit rating. Recognised amount in hedge Saab has entered into ISDA master agreements with financial counterparties to reserve 67 -57 34 net the positive and negative market values of outstanding derivatives; see the Nominal amount 7,283 5,550 23 Megawatt tables below. Saab has only CSA contract with a counterparty that gives Saab a Maturity date 2019-2027 2019-2025 2019-2021 ­unilateral right to collateral. Hedge ratio 1:1 1:1 1:1 Change in value of outstanding Market value of financial assets and liabilities subject to netting derivatives since 1 January 68 -4 26 arrangements Net Master Collateral Change in value of hedged asset to amount in netting received/ determine effectiveness -68 4 -26 2018 Gross balance arrangeassets Net MSEK amount Set-off sheet ments pledged amount Trading Currency Proprietary trading is permitted to a limited extent in fixed income and currency derivatives 965 965 -947 18 instruments. The main purpose of this trading is to gain access to qualitative Interest rate market information and maintain a high level of market expertise. derivatives The Board of Directors has issued a risk mandate for trading in fixed income and CCY1) 97 97 97 ­currency instruments. In 2018, MSEK 2 was allocated to trading, expressed as VaR. The mandate has not been utilised during the year. Electricity derivatives 34 34 34 Pension obligation Assets 1,096 1,096 -947 149 The Saab Pension Fund was established in 2006 to secure the main part of the Currency Group’s pension obligation. The fund has a long-term real yield requirement that derivatives 1,155 1,155 -947 208 ­corresponds annual financial cost of pension liability to PRI Pensionsgaranti. InvestInterest rate ment guidelines indicate asset allocation as follows 0-40 per cent equities, 0-15 per derivatives 79 79 79 cent alternative assets, 25-100 per cent interest-bearing products and 0-20 per CCY1) cent real estate. Investments are made in interest-bearing securities from issuers with a credit rating of no lower than BBB according to Standard & Poor’s and Baa Electricity derivatives according to Moody’s. Of the fund’s capital at year-end, 54 per cent (53) was invested in interest-bearing assets and property, of which 19 (14) per cent consist of Liabilities 1,234 1,234 -947 287 property related investments, the remaining 46 per cent (47) in equitiesand alter­ 1) Cross currency basis swaps. native investments. The market value of the fund’s assets as of 31 December 2018 was MSEK 6,051 (6,098) and the annual return was -1 per cent (9). In 2018, the fund was capitalised by MSEK 120 (0) and MSEK 120 (0) in refunds was paid. The table below shows the solvency margin for the pension fund. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 125 F I n a n cial stateme n ts MSEK 31-12-2018 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 NOTE 38 TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED PARTIES Fair value of assets under management 6,051 6,098 5,579 5,316 The Group’s financial agreements conform to market principles. Saab has not had Present value of any significant transactions with Investor, Board members or members of Group defined-benefit Management. For information on remuneration, see note 9. ­obligations1) 9,916 8,554 7,811 7,006 Of the Parent Company’s sales, 7 (6) per cent referred to sales to Group companies, Solvency margin 61% 71% 71% 76% while 21 (20) per cent of the Parent Company’s purchases were from Group Pension obligation companies. according to PRI 5,776 5,522 5,369 5,237 Sales to and purchases from the Group’s associated companies and joint ventures Solvency margin 105% 110% 104% 102% amounted to approximately MSEK 47 (114) and MSEK 136 (113), respectively. For information on receivables from and liabilities to associated companies and joint 1) Refers to the pension obligation that the assets under management are designed to cover. ventures, see notes 24 and 34. NOTE 37 A  SSETS PLEDGED NOTE 39 GROUP COMPANIES AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Significant Group company holdings Ownership share, per cent ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES Group company’s A contingent liability exists if there is a possible commitment stemming from Group company ­registered office, country 2018 2017 events whose occurrence is dependent on one or more uncertain future events Combitech AB Växjö, Sweden 100 100 and there is a commitment that is not recognised as a liability or provision Combitech Oy Finland 100 100 because it is unlikely that an outflow of resources will be required or the size of the Saab Australia Pty Ltd Australia 100 100 obligation cannot be estimated with sufficient reliability. Information is provided Saab Barracuda AB Västervik, Sweden 100 100 as long as the likelihood of an outflow of resources is not extremely small. Saab Barracuda LLC USA 100 100 Saab Czech s.r.o. Czech Republic 100 100 Saab Defense and Group Parent Company Security USA LLC USA 100 100 MSEK 31-12-2018 31-12-2017 31-12-2018 31-12-2017 Saab Dynamics AB Karlskoga, Sweden 100 100 Contingent liabilities Saab Danmark A/S Denmark 100 100 Guarantees to insurance Saab Grintek company, Defence (Pty) Ltd South Africa 75 75 PRI Pensionsgaranti 116 111 116 111 Saab Kockums AB Malmö, Sweden 100 100 Guarantees for Group Saab Medav ­companies’ commitments Technologies GmbH Germany 100 100 to customers 4,655 4,285 Saab Seaeye Ltd UK 100 100 Sureties for joint Saab Sensis Corporation USA 100 100 ventures 8 8 Saab Technologies B.V. The Netherlands 100 100 Sureties for associated companies 11 11 386 292 Total ownership of non-controlling interests amounted to MSEK 221 (188). Total 135 130 5,157 4,688 No non-controlling interests are considered material. Parent Company In the ordinary course of business, Saab is occasionally involved in disputes and MSEK 2018 2017 legal proceedings arising as a result of the company’s operations worldwide. These ­disputes and legal proceedings are not expected, either individually or collectively, Accumulated acquisition value to have any significant negative effect on Saab’s financial result or position. Opening balance, 1 January 18,718 18,501 New issues/shareholders’ contributions 121 The table below shows the total sum of guarantees that do not represent contingent Acquisitions 250 liabilities and a distribution by category and issuer. Adjusted purchase price -5 Per cent Per cent Repaid shareholders’ contributions -5 MSEK 31-12-2018 of total 31-12-2017 of total Sales and liquidations -28 Bank Guarantees: Closing balance, 31 December 18,834 18,718 On demand 18,181 99 18,714 99 Accumulated write-downs Award 173 1 168 1 Opening balance, 1 January -12,653 -12,653 Bank Guarantees total 18,354 100 18,882 100 Write-downs for the year -13 Type of Bank Guarantee: Sales and liquidations 13 Advance Payment 9,614 52 10,299 54 Closing balance, 31 December -12,653 -12,653 Performance 7,872 43 7,897 42 Others 868 5 686 4 Carrying amount, 31 December 6,181 6,065 Bank Guarantees total 18,354 100 18,882 100 Write-down reversals and write-downs for the year are reported in the income statement on the line “Result from shares in Group companies”. In the ordinary course of business, Saab AB issue Parent Company guarantees to subsidiaries and joint ventures on a case by case basis. These guarantees may cover all or part of the relevant subsidiary’s or joint venture’s general obligations, or be a defined amounts for a specific purpose. With regard to the Group’s so-called fulfilment guarantees for commitments to customers, the likelihood of an outflow of resources is extremely small and, as a result, no value is recognised in the table of contingent liabilities. 126 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 F I n a n cial stateme n ts Note 39, cont. Specification of Parent Company’s holdings of shares in Group companies 31-12-2018 Share, Carrying amount, Group company/Corp. ID no./Registered office No. of shares per cent MSEK Celsius AB, 556194-4652, Linköping, Sweden 5,000 100 144 Celsius Invest AB, 556164-6588, Stockholm, Sweden 1,720,000 100 158 Combitech AB, 556218-6790, Växjö, Sweden 100,000 100 1,064 EMC Services Elmiljöteknik AB, 556315-6636, Mölndal, Sweden 2,000 100 3 Fastighets AB Linköping Malmen 27, 556354-6349, Linköping, Sweden 20,000 100 4 Fastighets AB Stensholm-Huskvarna, 556030-2746, Jönköping, Sweden 150,000 100 42 Fastighets AB Tannefors 1:114, 559043-3206, Linköping, Sweden 500 100 6 FFV Ordnance AB, 556414-8194, Karlskoga, Sweden 100,000 100 10 Lansen Försäkrings AB, 516401-8656, Linköping, Sweden 500,000 100 51 Muskövarvet AB, 556675-3496, Haninge, Sweden 1,002 100 61 N. Sundin Dockstavarvet AB, 556193-6138, Kramfors, Sweden 5,100 100 85 Nordic Defence Industries A/S, Denmark 100 22 Saab Aircraft Leasing Holdings AB, 556124-3170, Linköping, Sweden 30,000 100 4 Saab Airport AB, 556366-8333, Linköping, Sweden 5,000 100 3 Saab Applied Composites AB, 556326-2988, Linköping 10,000 100 82 Saab Asia Pacific Co. Ltd, Thailand 100 12 Saab Barracuda AB, 556045-7391, Västervik, Sweden 200,000 100 101 Saab Canada Inc., Canada 100 1 Saab Czech s.r.o., Czech Republic 100 25 Saab Danmark A/S, Denmark 100 103 Saab Digital Air Traffic Solutions AB, 559060-0747, Linköping, Sweden 295 59 35 Saab Dynamics AB, 556264-6074, Karlskoga, Sweden 500,000 100 357 Saab France S.A.S, France 100 Saab India Technologies Private Limited, India 100 Saab International AB, 556267-8994, Stockholm, Sweden 50,000 100 14 Saab Kenya Ltd, Kenya 100 Saab Kockums AB, 556205-5623, Malmö, Sweden 500,000 100 340 SAAB LTD, United Arab Emirates 100 Saab Medav Technologies GmbH, Germany 100 317 Saab Microwave Systems AB, 556028-1627, Mölndal, Sweden 300,000 100 49 Saab North America, Inc., USA 100 2,043 Saab Seaeye Holdings Ltd, UK 100 194 Saab South Africa (Pty) Ltd, South Africa 100 443 Saab Surveillance Systems AB, 556577-4600, Järfälla, Sweden 1,000 100 Saab Technologies B.V., The Netherlands 100 295 Saab Technologies BVBA, Belgium 100 29 Saab Technologies Ltd., Canada 100 18 Saab Technologies s.r.o., Czech Republic 100 Saab Technologies Norway AS, Norway 100 3 Saab Technologies UK Limited, UK 100 Saab Training Systems GmbH, Germany 100 3 Saab Transpondertech AB, 556535-9790, Linköping, Sweden 1,000 100 Saab Ventures AB, 556757-5211, Linköping, Sweden 1,000 100 Dormant companies etc. 60 Carrying amount at year-end 6,181 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 127 F I n a n cial stateme n ts NOTE 40 UNTAXED RESERVES FREE CASH FLOW VERSUS CASH FLOW Parent Company FOR THE YEAR IN STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS MSEK 2018 2017 MSEK 2018 2017 Tax allocation reserve: Free cash flow -3,195 852 Opening balance, 1 January 1,809 1,850 Investing activities – interest-bearing: Provision for the year 530 309 Short-term investments -4,554 63 Reversal for the year -514 -350 Other financial investments and receivables -29 84 Closing balance, 31 December 1,825 1,809 Financing activities: Accumulated accelerated/under depreciation Repayment of loans -967 -1,301 Buildings and land: Raising of loans 3,820 1,700 Opening balance, 1 January -2 -2 Rights issue 5,967 Accelerated/under depreciation for the year Repurchase of shares -203 Closing balance, 31 December -2 -2 Dividend paid to the Parent Company’s shareholders -588 -559 Dividend paid to non-controlling interest -24 -4 Machinery and equipment: Transactions with non-controlling interest -14 Opening balance, 1 January 484 432 Cash flow for the year 213 835 Accelerated depreciation for the year 98 52 Closing balance, 31 December 582 484 SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION ON STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS Total untaxed reserves, 31 December 2,405 2,291 Liquid assets Group NOTE 41 STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS, MSEK 31-12-2018 31-12-2017 SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION The following components are included in liquid assets: Cash and bank balances 1,300 1,463 The Group’s free cash flow, and a reconciliation between free cash flow Bank deposits 1,151 739 and cash flow for the year from the statement of cash flows, are stated below. Total according to the statement of financial position 2,451 2,202 FREE CASH FLOW Group Total according to statement of cash flows 2,451 2,202 MSEK 2018 2017 Cash flow from operating activities before Parent Company changes in working capital, excluding taxes and other financial items 4,026 3,688 MSEK 31-12-2018 31-12-2017 The following components are included Cash flow from changes in working capital: in liquid assets: Contract assets and liabilities -3,039 -718 Cash and bank balances 472 442 Inventories -1,057 -972 Bank deposits 1,151 739 Other current receivables -1,044 925 Total according to balance sheet 1,623 1,181 Other current liabilities 1,965 704 Provisions -479 -107 Total according to statement of cash flows 1,623 1,181 Change in working capital -3,654 -168 Interest paid and dividends received Cash flow from operating activities, Group Parent Company excluding taxes and other financial items 372 3,520 MSEK 2018 2017 2018 2017 Investing activities: Dividends received 39 26 111 1,090 Investments in intangible fixed assets -1,338 -1,064 Interest received 38 40 34 141 Investments in tangible fixed assets -1,481 -1,093 Interest paid -122 -145 -146 -159 Sales and disposals of tangible fixed assets 23 25 Total -45 -79 -1 1,072 Cash flow from investing activities1) -2,796 -2,132 Operational cash flow -2,424 1,388 Adjustments for items not affecting cash flow Taxes and other financial items -862 -356 Group Parent Company Sale of and investments in financial assets 43 -10 MSEK 2018 2017 2018 2017 Investments in operations 15 -170 Depreciation Sale of subsidiaries 33 and amortisation­ 866 839 478 491 Capital gains/losses from Free cash flow -3,195 852 sales of Group companies, associated compa1) Cash flow from investing activities excluding change in short-term investments and other interest-­ nies and other shares -27 bearing financial assets and excluding sale of and investment in financial assets, investments in ­operations and sale of subsidiaries. If investments in and sale of financial fixed assets are considered Provisions 673 378 565 283 to be of operating nature, the item is included in investing activities. Write-downs 50 13 Share of profits in associated companies and joint ventures 14 39 Dividends and Group ­contributions from/to Group companies -936 -78 Other 232 223 75 123 Total 1,808 1,479 182 832 128 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 F I n a n cial stateme n ts Note 41, cont. Reconciliation of cash flows arising from liabilities in financing activities Non-cash changes Foreign exchange Interest-bearing liabilities, MSEK 31-12-2017 Cash flows1) Acquisitions movement 31-12-2018 Liabilities to credit institutions 5,798 2,919 42 8,759 Liabilities to associated companies and joint ventures 45 -2 43 Other interest-bearing liabilities 484 -64 1 41 462 Total interest-bearing liabilities 6,327 2,853 1 83 9,264 1) These amounts refer to cash flows arising from liabilities in Financing activities in the Consolidated statement of cash flows. Investments in operations Group NOTE 42 INFORMATION ON PARENT COMPANY MSEK 2018 2017 Saab AB (publ) is a limited company registered in Sweden, with its registered Acquired assets and liabilities office in Linköping. The Parent Company’s B shares are registered on the ­ Intangible fixed assets 51 94 Nasdaq Stockholm. The address of the head office is Saab AB, Olof Palmes gata 17, Tangible fixed assets 9 57 5th floor, SE-111 22 Stockholm, Sweden. Inventories 70 The consolidated accounts for 2018 comprise the Parent Company and its Group Current receivables 18 86 companies, together referred to as the Group. The Group also includes the holdings in associated companies and joint ventures. Liquid assets 11 42 Saab AB also operates a small business in a South Korean branch. Total assets 89 349 Long-term liabilities 24 NOTE 43 ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT Provisions 5 Deferred tax liability 5 11 Operations subject to licensing in the Parent Company Interest-bearing liabilities 1 10 Production of aircraft and aircraft components by the Parent Company, Saab AB, in Current liabilities 36 67 the Tannefors industrial zone in the municipality of Linköping is subject to licensing Total liabilities 42 117 pursuant to the Swedish Environment Code due to aeronautics operations, surface Purchase price paid 212 treatment processes, manufacturing of composite materials, handling of chemical substances, the firing of large calibre weapons and the size of the manufacturing Adjusted purchase price -4 facilities. The environmental impact of these operations primarily arises from Less: Liquid assets in acquired operations -11 -42 ­emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOCS) and aircraft emissions into the Effect on the Group’s liquid assets atmosphere, emissions of metals into waterways, the generation of industrial wastes (positive (-)/negative (+)) -15 170 and noise disturbing local surroundings. The manufacturing operations predominantly entail operations subject to licensing. The enivromental permit for the operaAcquisitions in 2018 refers mainly to C-­Leanship A/S and its subsidiaries C-Leantions in Tannefors was imposed by the Land and Enivromental Court in early 2019. ship Singapore Pte.Ltd by conversion of convertible loan to shares. Acquisitions in In Järfälla, Saab AB has operations involving the manufacture of advanced 2017 relate to Applied Composites AB, N. Sundin Dockstavarvet AB and ­command and control systems, among other things, which are also subject to Muskövarvet AB. licensing under the Environment Code. The licensing requirement is due to surface treatment processes and the size of the manufacturing facilities. The environmental Sale of subsidiaries impact of these operations primarily arises from metals into waterways. The National Group Licensing Board for Environmental Protection granted the licence in 1990. With the exception of a few exceeded recommended values, Saab AB did not MSEK 2018 2017 exceed any conditions in its permits or violate any injunctions in 2018. Divested assets and liabilities Tangible fixed assets 23 Operations subject to licensing in subsidiaries Inventories 1 The operations carried on by Saab Airport AB are subject to licensing under the Current receivables 5 Environment Code and are covered by the permit issued by the Land and EnivromenLiquid assets 5 tal Court in early 2019 for Saab’s collective operations in the Tannefors industrial zone in the municipality of Linköping. This permit also covers the operations of Saab Total assets 34 Dynamics AB in the area, despite the fact that they are not subject to licensing and Deferred tax liability 4 notification requirements under the Environment Code. Current liabilities 4 Saab Dynamics AB and Saab Bofors Test Center AB run operations in Karlskoga Total liabilities 8 that are subject to licensing under the Environment Code and Saab Barracuda AB runs operations subject to licensing in Gamleby. A process regarding a new environmental Sales price 38 license for the operations in Saab Dynamics AB is underway. Saab Bofors Test Center Purchase price received 38 AB also runs operations subject to licensing in the municipalities of Degerfors, LindesLess: Liquid assets in divested operations -5 berg, and Härjedalen. Applied Composites AB runs operations subject to licensing in the municipalities of Linköping (Malmslätt). In addition, Saab Kockums AB runs operaEffect on the Group’s liquid assets 33 tions subject to licensing in Karlskrona and on Muskö island, south of Stockholm. The environmental impact from subsidiaries subject to licensing primarily ­consists of Divestments in 2018 mainly relate to the property company Kockums i Karlskrona emissions of VOCs from workshops and emissions from aircraft into the atmosphere, Kontor AB. No divestments were made in 2017. emissions of metals and de-icing solvents into waterways, generation of industrial wastes, storing and transfer of explosive goods, and noise disturbing local surroundings. With the exception of a few exceeded recommended values, Saab’s subsidiaries did not exceed any conditions in its permits or violate any injunctions in 2018. Operations subject to notification requirements Saab AB has operations in Arboga, Docksta, Huskvarna, Jönköping, Ljungbyhed, Linköping (Malmslätt), Muskö, Nyköping and Östersund, which are subject to ­notification requirements pursuant to the Environment Code. The permit in Arboga still apply and was granted in 1993. The permit in Linköping (Malmslätt) was ­abolished in 2018 on Saab’s initative. The Group also has operations subject to notification requirements in the ­subsidiary Saab Dynamics AB in Motala. The permit in Motala still applies. The environmental impact of these operations is very limited. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 129 F I n a n cial stateme n ts NOTE 44 NON-RECURRING ITEMS The non-recurring items are related to identified efficiency improvements to increase productivity and are reported in the income statement per function as shown below. MSEK 2018 2017 Cost of goods sold -41 Administrative expenses -3 Research and development costs -54 Other operating expenses -200 Total -298 NOTE 45 NEW ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES 2018 NEW ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES IFRS 9 Financial instruments IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers Saab has applied the IASB standard IFRS 9 Financial instruments for the first time Saab has applied the IASB standard IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with in the fiscal year 2018. IFRS 9 addresses the classification, measurement and ­Customers for the first time in the fiscal year 2018 to replace IAS 18 Revenue and recognition of financial assets and liabilities and introduces new rules on hedge IAS 11 Construction Contracts. The transition has been made applying the full accounting and impairment of financial receivables, and replaces the majority of retroactive approach, because of which the comparative year 2017 is restated. the guidance in IAS 39. For a few customer contracts, the revenue recognition method has been The transition to IFRS 9 has not had a material effect on the Group’s income adjusted. The main reason for the change is that a few long-term customer statement or financial position. Hedge accounting is not affected, but Saab is ­contracts cannot recognise revenue over time because they fail to meet the transitioning to IFRS 9’s hedge accounting, which is an option in the standard. ­criteria for right to payment for performance completed to date. The effect on the The new rules for classifying financial assets do not entail any changes other than Group’s income statement and financial position in connection with the transition that a loan to an associated company according to IFRS 9 is recognised at fair to IFRS 15 is indicated in the following tables. For a description of accounting value through profit and loss rather than at amortised cost. principles, see note 4. The effect on the Group’s income statement and financial position in ­connection with the transition to IFRS 9 is indicated in the following tables. For a description of accounting principles, see note 36. Shown below are the effects in 2017 of the application of IFRS 15. The opening balance in 2018 has been restated in accordance with IFRS 9 and IFRS 15. YEAR-END 2017 AND OPENING BALANCE 2018 31-12-2017 Adjustment 31-12-2017 Adjustment 01-01-2018 Statement of financial position, MSEK Actual IFRS 15 Restated IFRS 9 Restated ASSETS Fixed assets 14,459 14,459 14,459 Long-term receivables on associated companies and joint ventures 454 454 -5 449 Deferred tax assets 211 27 238 1 239 Total fixed assets 15,124 27 15,151 -4 15,147 Inventories 7,743 504 8,247 8,247 Amounts due from customers --> Contract assets 7,917 83 8,000 8,000 Accounts receivable, derivatives and other short-term receivables 6,029 6,029 6,029 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 1,193 -293 900 900 Liquid assets and short-term investments 6,671 6,671 6,671 Total current assets 29,553 294 29,847 29,847 TOTAL ASSETS 44,677 321 44,998 -4 44,994 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Parent Company’s shareholders’ interest 14,189 -92 14,093 -4 14,093 Non-controlling interest 188 188 188 Total equity 14,377 -92 14,285 -4 14,281 Liabilities Long-term liabilities 11,167 11,167 11,167 Amounts due to customers –> Contract liabilities 9,094 418 9,512 9,512 Other short-term liabilities and provisions 10,039 -5 10,034 10,034 Total liabilities 30,300 413 30,713 30,713 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 44,677 321 44,994 -4 44,944 130 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 F I n a n cial stateme n ts Note 45, cont. YEAR-END 2017 OPENING BALANCE 2017 Jan–Dec Adjustment Jan–Dec Statement of financial position, 01-01-2017 Adjustment 01-01-2017 Income statement , MSEK Actual IFRS 15 Restated MSEK Actual IFRS 15 Restated Sales 31,394 272 31,666 ASSETS Cost of goods sold -23,946 -177 -24,123 Fixed assets 13,687 13,687 Gross income 7,448 95 7,543 Deferred tax assets 252 53 305 Total fixed assets 13,939 53 13,992 Gross margin, % 23.7 23.8 Operating expenses -5,293 -5,293 Inventories 6,660 526 7,186 Operating income 2,155 95 2,250 Amounts due from customers –> Operating margin, % 6.9 7.1 Contract assets 6,222 -277 5,995 Accounts receivable, derivatives Net financial items -151 -151 and other short-term receivables 7,411 7,411 Income before taxes 2,004 95 2,099 Prepaid expenses and accrued Taxes -566 -25 -591 income 1,035 -163 872 Net income for the year 1,438 70 1,508 Liquid assets and short-term investments 5,944 5,944 Attributable to: Total current assets 27,272 136 27,408 Parent Company’s shareholders’ interest 1,407 70 1,477 TOTAL ASSETS 41,211 189 41,400 non-controlling interest 31 31 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Earnings per share Equity before dilution, SEK 12.19 0.60 12.79 Parent Company’s Earnings per share shareholders’ interest 13,156 -164 12,992 after dilution, SEK 12.10 0.60 12.70 Non-controlling interest 145 145 Total equity 13,301 -164 13,137 Liabilities Long-term liabilities 9,736 9,736 Amounts due to customers –> Contract liabilities 7,884 355 8,239 Other short-term liabilities and provisions 10,290 -2 10,288 Total liabilities 27,910 353 28,263 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 41,211 189 41,400 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 131 F I n a n cial stateme n ts NOTE 46 NEW ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES 2019 New accounting principles The IASB standard IFRS 16 Leases is applied as of 2019. IFRS 16 is a new standard underlying asset is of low value will not apply the new accounting principle and for reporting leases and replaces IAS 17 Leasing. In brief, the new standard means instead be recognised in the same way as before as a cost on a straight-line basis for the lessee that the current classification of operating and finance leases over the lease term. ­disappears and is replaced by a model where assets and liabilities for all leases are IFRS 16 has been applied to all leases previously classified as operating leases. recognised in the balance sheet. In accordance with the practical expedients in IFRS 16 p.C3b, the Group has not The Group’s obligations as a lessee mainly involve premises and buildings. assessed any lease components in contracts that were not already classified as Leases are normally signed for fixed periods over several years, but may include an leases according to IAS 17 and IFRIC 4. extension option, as described in more detail below. Right-of-use assets for leases recognised in the balance sheet will be measured The terms are negotiated separately for each lease and contain a large number of initially, as of 1 January 2019, at an amount corresponding to the lease liability with contractual terms. The leases do not contain any special terms or restrictions adjustments for prepaid or accrued lease fees attributable to the contract as of whereby the contracts could be terminated if the terms are not met, but the leased 31 December 2018. The lease liability has been calculated by discounting remaining assets may not be used as collateral for loans. future contractual lease fees by the Group’s weighted marginal loan rate as of Leases are recognised as right-of-use assets and a corresponding liability on the 1 January 2019. day the leased asset is available for use by the Group. Each lease payment is divided Finance leases on aircraft and properties that were already classified as tangible between amortisation of the liability and financial cost. The financial cost is divided fixed assets have been reclassified to right-of-use assets in the balance sheet. over the term of the lease so that each reporting period is charged with an amount The transition to IFRS 16 will not affect future financial reports in terms of corresponding to a fixed interest rate for the liability recognised in each period. The ­reporting, performance indicators or alternative performance indicators for the right-of-use asset is depreciated on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the Group’s operating segments. Adjustments in accordance with IFRS 16 will be made asset’s period of use and the lease term. at an overarching Group level. Lease liabilities are initially recognised at the present value of future lease See the following table for expected effects on the financial position owing to the ­payments, which includes fixed fees, variable lease fees linked to an index or a price, transition to IFRS 16. the guaranteed residual value expected to be paid to the lessor, the redemption price for any eventual purchase options and any eventual penalties to terminate the lease.The lease payments are discounted by the implicit interest if the rate can be Statement of financial position 2018-12-31 Adjustment 2019-01-01 determined, or otherwise by the marginal lending rate. Right-of-use assets have MSEK Outcome IFRS 16 Restated been measured at the lease liability’s value, with adjustments for prepaid or accrued ASSETS lease fees attributable to the contract as of 31 December 2018. Tangible fixed assets 6,129 -441 5,688 Right-of-use assets and lease liabilities will be presented as separate items in the Right-of-use assets 2,725 2,725 balance sheet. Lease payments for short-term leases and leases of low-value assets are Other fixed assets 11,015 11,015 expensed on a straight-line basis in the income statement. Short-term leases are Total fixed assets 17,144 2,284 19,428 leases of 12 months or less. Other receivables 507 44 551 Options to extend and terminate leases are included in a number of the Group’s Prepaid expenses leases on premises and buildings. The terms are used to maximise flexibility in and accrued income 919 -63 856 ­managing the contracts. When determining the lease’s term, available information Other current assets 37,558 37,558 that provides an economic incentive to exercise an extension, or not to exercise an option to terminate a lease, is taken into account. Options to extend a lease are Total current assets 38,984 -19 38,965 included only in the lease term if it is reasonable to assume that the lease will be TOTAL ASSETS 56,128 2,265 58,393 extended (or not terminated). Interest costs on lease liabilities are presented as financial costs in the income EQUITY AND LIABILITIES statement. Parent Company’s shareholders’ Cash flows for leases are classified and presented as follows: interest 19,412 19,412 • The lease liability’s amortisation is included in financing activities. Non-controlling interest s 221 221 • Interest payments are included in cash flow from operating activities. Total equity 19,633 19,633 • Payments for short-term leases and payments for leases for which the underlying Long-term interest-bearing asset is of low value that are not included in the valuation of the lease liability liabilities 8,196 -421 7,775 ­presented in operating activities. Long-term lease liabilities 2,296 2,296 The Parent Company will not recognise leases in the balance sheet and instead will Other provisions 1,081 32 1,113 continue to recognise lease fees as costs on a straight-line basis over the lease Other long-term liabilities 5,319 5,319 term in accordance with the exemption from IFRS 16 in RFR 2 Reporting by Legal Total long-term liabilities 14,596 1,907 16,503 Entities. Short-term interest-bearing liabilities 1,068 -41 1,027 Transition effects due to IFRS 16 Short-term lease liabilities 399 399 As of 1 January 2019, Saab will apply the new standard to all leases where the Group Other short-term liabilities 20,831 20,831 is the lessee with the exception of the leases described below. The Group has no significant leases as a lessor. Total short-term liabilities 21,899 358 22,257 Saab intends to apply the simplified transition approach and will not restate comTotal liabilities 36,495 2,265 38,760 parative amounts. The Group intends to apply the exemptions in the standard for short-term leases as well as leases where the underlying asset is of low value, i.e. TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 56,128 2,265 58,393 leases where the term is not more than 12 months as well as leases where the 132 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 F I n a n cial stateme n ts NOTE 47 EXCHANGE RATES USED IN FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Year-end rate Average rate Land 2018 2017 2018 2017 Australia AUD 1 6.32 6.42 6.49 6.54 Brazil BRL 1 2.32 2.49 2.39 2.68 Denmark DKK 100 137.60 132.29 137.62 129.49 Euro EUR 1 10.28 9.85 10.26 9.63 India INR 100 12.82 12.86 12.71 13.13 Canada CAD 1 6.59 6.56 6.71 6.58 Norway NOK 100 102.45 100.11 106.87 103.30 Switzerland CHF 1 9.10 8.43 8.88 8.67 UK GBP 1 11.35 11.10 11.59 10.99 South Africa ZAR 100 62.13 66.96 65.87 64.14 Czech Republic CZK 100 39.81 38.49 39.99 36.61 USA USD 1 8.97 8.23 8.69 8.54 NOTE 48 DEFINITIONS OF KEY RATIOS Below are definitions of financial key ratios that are used in the report. Net liquidity/net debt Liquid assets, short-term investments and interest-bearing For more information and explanations regarding the usage of these key ratios, receivables less interest-bearing liabilities and provisions for pensions excluding please see saabgroup.com, investor, financial data, key ratios. provisions for pensions attributable to special employers’ contribution. Capital employed Total assets less non-interest-bearing liabilities. Non-recurring items Non-recurring items of profit with a significant impact on Capital turnover Sales divided by average capital employed. the results and which are important for understanding the underlying business development. Earnings per share Net income for the year attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholder­s, divided by the average number of shares before and after full Operating margin Operating income (EBIT) as a percentage of sales. dilution. There is no dilution impact if the result is negative. Operational cash flow Cash flow from operating activities, excluding taxes and EBITDA Operating income before depreciation/amortisation and write-downs. other financial items, and acquisitions and divestments of intangible fixed assets and tangible fixed assets. EBITDA margin Operating income before depreciation/amortisation and write-downs as a percentage of sales. Order backlog Total value of orders at the end of the year. Effective tax rate Current and deferred taxes as a percentage of income before tax. Order bookings Total value of orders received during the year. Equity/assets ratio Equity in relation to total assets. Organic sales growth Change in sales in percentage adjusted for effects from exchange rate due to the translation of foreign subsidiaries, and structural changes Equity per share Equity attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholders such as acquisitions and divestments of subsidiaries. divided by the number of shares, excluding treasury shares, at the end of the year. Profit margin Operating income plus financial income as a percentage of sales. Free cash flow Cash flow from operating activities and from investing activities, excluding acquisitions and divestments of short-term investments and other Return on capital employed Operating income plus financial income as a interest-bearing financial assets. percentage of average capital employed. Free cash flow per share Free cash flow divided by the average number of shares Return on equity Net income for the year as a percentage of average equity. after dilution. R&D expenditures Research and development costs are recognised separately Gross margin Gross income as a percentage of sales. and comprise the cost of self-financed new and continued product development as well as amortisation of capitalised development costs. Total research and developInterest coverage ratio Operating income plus financial income divided by ment expenses also include the part of Saab’s research and development that is financial expenses. conducted in cooperation with customers, which is reported as cost of goods sold. Net investments Acquisitions and divestments of intangible and tangible fixed assets. NOTE 49 SIGNIFICANT EVENTS AFTER THE CONCLUSION OF THE PERIOD • On 3 January, Saab completed a successful first flight with the second GlobalEye • Supported by Sweden, Saab submitted a proposal for the Finnish HX fighter Airborne Early Warning & Control (AEW&C) aircraft. ­procurement to the Finnish defence procurement agency, the Logistics ­Command • Supported by Sweden, Saab submitted a proposal for the Swiss New Fighter of the Finnish Defence Forces. The proposal comprises 64 Gripen aircraft, both Aircraft procurement to armasuisse, the Swiss defence procurement agency. single-seat Gripen E and dual-seat Gripen F, and is the formal response to the Saab is offering Gripen E and a comprehensive industrial participation programme ­customer’s Request for Quotation (RFQ) issued in April 2018. for Swiss industry corresponding to 100 percent of the contract value. • The last shares in connection with Saab’s rights issue were registered on • Saab signed a contract in January with the UK Ministry of Defence for support and 31 January, finalising the issue. services related to the land-based Giraffe AMB radar systems. This multi-function radar has been in operation in the UK since 2007 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 133 D i v ide n d moti vatio n Dividend motivation The Board of Directors’ statement according to chapter 18, § 4 of the Companies Act with regard to the proposed dividend – Saab AB. Saab is one of the world’s leading high-techSaab’s gross capital expenditure in 2018 nology companies, with operations that are amounted to MSEK 1,481. Investments are characterised by complex development also made in research and development, assignments on the cutting edge of tech­ which in 2018 amounted to MSEK 2,223, nology. Over the years, Saab has conducted of which MSEK 1,140 was capitalised in the significant development projects and ­balance sheet. ­managed the associated risks with great At year-end, Saab had net debt, which ­success. See also risks and uncertainties in includes liquid assets, short-term investments the annual report. and interest-bearing receivables less interest-­ The Board of Directors is proposing a total bearing liabilities, including provisions for dividend of MSEK 601 (588), an increase of ­pensions, amounting to MSEK 1,460. 2.2 per cent, corresponding to SEK 4.50 per The proposed dividend is not expected to share (5.50). The completed rights issue affect Saab’s ability to carry out its commitincreases the number of dividend-paying ments on a shortor long-term basis. shares by 25 per cent. Saab AB’s unrestricted equity amounts to The proposed dividend is considered justi­ MSEK 10,849 and profit carried forward in the fiable with regard to what is stated in chapter Group before the dividend is paid amounts to 17, § 3, paragraphs two and three of the MSEK 11,067. ­Companies Act (2005:551): Net income for the year attributable to the 1. the demands that the company’s nature, Parent Company’s shareholders amounted to scope and risks place on the size of its MSEK 1,313 for the Group and MSEK 1,075 equity, and for the Parent Company. 2. the company’s consolidation needs, liquidAfter paying the dividend to the share­ ity or financial position in other respects. holders, the Group’s equity/assets ratio amounts to 34.3 per cent, compared to the target of 30 per cent. Since the IPO in 1998, the equity/assets ratio has risen from 22 per The Board of Directors of Saab AB cent to 35.0 per cent in 2018. 134 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 P roposed dispositio n of ear n i n gs Proposed disposition of earnings 2018 The Board of Directors and the President propose that the unappropriAfter the proposed disposition, equity in the Parent Company will be ated earnings in the Parent Company at disposal of the Annual General as follows: Meeting, amounting to: SEK SEK Retained earnings 4,216,961,639 Capital stock 1,746,405,504 Share premium reserve 5,557,130,127 Ongoing rights issue 427,128,048 Net comprehensive income for the year 1,075,469,016 Statutory reserve 542,471,135 Total 10,849,560,782 Revaluation reserve 669,183,636 Share premium reserve 5,557,130,127 be disposed as follows: Retained earnings 4,691,757,695 To the shareholders, a dividend of SEK 4.50 per share 600,672,960 Total 13,634,076,145 To share premium reserve 5,557,130,127 Funds to be carried forward 4,691,757,695 The company’s policy is to issue a dividend of 20–40 per cent of net Total 10,849,560,782 income over a business cycle. The Board of Directors and the President propose that MSEK 601 (588), or SEK 4.50 per share (5.50) be issued as a dividend. This has been calculated based on the amount of outstanding shares on 31 December 2018, of 133,482,880 (106,823,782). Saab’s equity/assets ratio is currently 35.0 per cent (31.7) and after the ­proposed disposition of earnings will be 34.3 per cent (30.8) The undersigned certify that the consolidated accounts and the annual report have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted for use in the European Union, and generally accepted accounting principles, and give a true and fair view of the financial positions and results of the Group and the Parent Company, and that the management report gives a fair review of the development of the operations, financial positions and results of the Group and the Parent Company and describes substantial risks and uncertainties that the Group companies faces. Linköping 25 February 2019 Marcus Wallenberg Chairman Sten Jakobsson Danica Kragic Jensfelt Sara Mazur Daniel Nodhäll Deputy Chairman Board member Board member Board member Bert Nordberg Cecilia Stegö Chilò Erika Söderberg Johnson Joakim Westh Board member Board member Board member Board member Stefan Andersson Göran Gustavsson Nils Lindskog Board member Board member Board member Håkan Buskhe President and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and board member Our audit report was submitted on 1 March 2019 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Bo Hjalmarsson Authorised Public Accountant Auditor in charge S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 135 A uditor ' s R eport Auditor’s report To the general meeting of the shareholders of Saab AB (publ), corporate identity number 556036-0793. Report on the annual accounts material respects, the financial position of the tional report that has been submitted to the and consolidated accounts group as of 31 December 2018 and their parent company's audit committee in accordOpinions financial performance and cash flow for the ance with the Audit Regulation (537/2014) We have audited the annual accounts and year then ended in accordance with InternaArticle 11. consolidated accounts of Saab AB (publ) for tional Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as the year 2018 except for the corporate adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Basis for Opinions ­governance statement and the statutory Act. Our opinions do not cover the corporate We conducted our audit in accordance with ­sustainability report on pages 68–77 and governance statement and the statutory International Standards on Auditing (ISA) and 52–67 respectively. The annual accounts and ­sustainability report on pages 68 to 77 and 52 generally accepted auditing standards in consolidated accounts of the company are to 67 respectively. The statutory administra­Sweden. Our responsibilities under those included on pages 38–135 in this document. tion report is consistent with the other parts of standards are further described in the In our opinion, the annual accounts have the annual accounts and consolidated ­Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are been prepared in accordance with the Annual accounts. independent of the parent company and the Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material We therefore recommend that the general group in accordance with professional ethics respects, the financial position of parent commeeting of shareholders adopts the income for accountants in Sweden and have otherpany as of 31 December 2018 and its financial statement and balance sheet for the parent wise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in performance and cash flow for the year then company and the income statement and accordance with these requirements. ended in accordance with the Annual statement of financial position for the group. We believe that the audit evidence we have Accounts Act. The consolidated accounts Our opinions in this report on the the obtained is sufficient and appropriate to have been prepared in accordance with the annual accounts and consolidated accounts ­provide a basis for our opinions. Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all are consistent with the content of the addiOur audit approach Overview • We have used an overall materiality of SEK 100 million in our audit representing approximately five percent of operating profit. Materiality • In our audit we have focused on the operations in the parent company Saab AB and the ­subsidiaries Saab Dynamics AB and Saab Kockums AB. In addition units in Australia, South Africa and USA has been subject to review procedures. • A significant part of Saab’s reported revenue derive from long term contracts where manageScope ment’s estimates and assumptions are critical for recognition of revenue as well as cost of goods sold. In addition to the income items, several balance sheet items are affected by the assumptions and judgments made related to the long term contracts. A significant part of our audit is Key focused on the review of large projects. From 2018 Saab recognize revenue according to IFRS Audit 15, revenue from contracts with customers. Matters A significant part of Saab’s revenue and result which as such are based on management’s project cost and revenue to give a satisfying is derived from long term customer contracts estimates and measurement of percentage of base for recognizing revenue and income. In including substantial development and cuscompletion, estimated profit margin as well as many cases the customer contracts have a tomization for specific customers, which are total costs and risks. significant element of integration with the cusassociated with technical and commercial This requires a high level of project control tomer and sub-contractors why the financial risks. Revenue and income is in many projects and monitoring to be able to, at any given time outcome is not only dependent on Saab’s own recognised using percentage of completion, confirm the assumptions and estimates for activities but other parties as well. 136 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 A uditor ' s R eport We designed our audit by determining Saab Dynamics AB and Saab Kockums AB in ­ conomic decisions of users taken on the e ­materiality and assessing the risks of material Sweden. These units are included in the audit basis of the consolidated financial statemisstatement in the consolidated financial of the group. Foreign operations of some ments. statements. In particular, we considered where importance for the financial reporting is Based on our professional judgement, we management made subjective judgements; ­carried out in Australia, South Africa and USA. determined certain quantitative thresholds for for example, in respect of significant accountIn these entities our audit is focused on promateriality, including the overall materiality for ing estimates that involved making assumpject oriented parts of the financial reporting. the consolidated financial statements as a tions and considering future events that are Beside the audit of the consolidated whole as set out in the table below. These, inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits, we accounts and the annual report we perform together with qualitative considerations, also addressed the risk of management overlimited reviews of Saab’s interim reports for helped us to determine the scope of our audit ride of internal controls, including among other the first, second and third quarter. These and the nature, timing and extent of our audit matters consideration of whether there was ­quarterly procedures help us to continuously procedures and to evaluate the effect of misevidence of bias that represented a risk of understand changes in conditions, especially statements, both individually and in aggregate material misstatement due to fraud. for long term contracts, affecting the financial on the financial statements as a whole. We tailored the scope of our audit in order reporting. to perform sufficient work to enable us to provide an opinion on the consolidated financial Materiality statements as a whole, taking into account the The scope of our audit was influenced by our structure of the Group, the accounting proapplication of materiality. An audit is designed cesses and controls and the specific circumto obtain reasonable assurance whether the stances in larger customer projects. financial statements are free from material A significant part of the Saab Group’s misstatement. Misstatements may arise due ­operation is carried out in the parent company to fraud or error. They are considered material Saab AB. In addition substantial parts of the if individually or in aggregate, they could operation is carried out in the subsidiaries ­reasonably be expected to influence the Group Materiality SEK 100 million. How we determined it Five percent of operating profit. Rational for the materiality We chose operating profit as the benchmark because, in our view, it is benchmark applied the benchmark against which the performance of the Group is most commonly measured by users, and is a generally accepted benchmark. We chose five percent which in auditing standards is a generally accepted benchmark. Key audit matters current period. These matters were addressed m ­ atters. A considerable part of the operations Key audit matters of the audit are those matin the context of our audit of, and in forming in the Saab Group is carried out in the parent ters that, in our professional judgment, were of our opinion thereon, the annual accounts and company, Saab AB. The key audit matters most significance in our audit of the annual consolidated accounts as a whole, but we do described below is applicable for both the accounts and consolidated accounts of the not provide a separate opinion on these group and the parent company. S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 137 A uditor ' s R eport Key audit matter How our audit addressed the Key audit matter Long term customer contracts Saab has implemented processes, methods • We inspect management’s assessment of Revenue and income is in many projects and controls to account for and monitor the the project execution and how this affect the ­recognised over time using percentage of long term customer contracts from tender, financial reporting. This includes total completion, which as such are based on through execution and completion. These ­contract value, level of completion, method ­management’s estimates and measurement processes include among other project for recognising stage of completion, cost of percentage of completion, estimated profit organisation, documentation, financial reviews incurred and estimated reaming cost. margin as well as total costs and risks. If a and reporting as well as guidance on applica• We reconcile management’s assessment to ­project is expected to be in a loss position, the tion of the accounting principles. This is furunderlying documentation and compare this loss is recognised as soon as it can be deterther described in the annual report on page 48 with previous quarters. mined. to 51. • We reconcile financial information between Percentage of completion and the income In our audit we have evaluated the design reports and systems and recalculate calcularecognised can be based on cost incurred, of these processes, methods and controls tions. milestones reached or units delivered. and tested on a sample basis that they work as The financial reporting risk in the financial designed. In this testing we have focused on In these reviews we use our knowledge about reporting is that revenue and income recogthe following: Saab and how similar long term contracts nised, not correctly reflect Saab’s fulfillment of • Test of monitoring controls on business area, have been treated to discuss and ask quesperformance obligations in the long term business unit of where applicable on product tions and challenge management’s estimates ­customer contracts and that the risks in the level. and judgements. We also assess consistent contracts deviate from actual outcome, which • Test of transaction controls for accounting for application of accounting principles between can result in revenue being recognised at cost incurred related to long term customer contracts with similar circumstances. In this wrong margin. This in turn might lead to cut off contracts for procurement to projects. we also test items reported as work in proerrors in revenue and cost. • Test that project reviews and documentation gress. We test them from both quantitative Accounting for long term customer conhas been approved according to methods and qualitative aspects and assess whether tracts also, besides revenue and cost of gods applied within Saab. they are accounted for under Saab’s accountsold, affect balance sheet items such as ing policies. receivables from customers, inventory and We have further selected a sample of long Contracts for Gripen E Sweden, Gripen NG provision for loss contracts. term customer contracts for substantive testBrazil and Air born surveillance United Arab In the annual report risk related to long ing. Our sample is based on quantitative and Emirates have been of specific interest in our term contracts are described on page 48 to qualitative factors where we have selected audit: 51 and in the notes to the financial statements long term contracts that are material from For specific contracts, we have from time (note 2 and 4) the accounting principles are contract value, revenue recognised or risk in to time observations related to both amounts described in more detail. residual cost to complete. and judgement that we report to management From 2018 Saab recognise revenue For the selected contracts we have in and the audit committee. The projects comaccording to IFRS 15, revenue from contracts detail obtained an understanding for the proplexity and judgments involved mean that the with customers. ject though, among other procedures, review amounts recognized by nature is affected by of contract clauses, project plans, analysis of uncertainty where future outcome can deviate stage of completion and contract forecasts. significantly from management’s judgments. Each quarter we review the projects together As part of our audit of long term contracts with the project leader, the project controller during the year we have considered the applior similar. In these reviews we perform the cation of IFRS 15. ­following procedures focusing on whether ­significant risks are reasonably accounted for: 138 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 A uditor ' s R eport Other Information than the annual intends to liquidate the company, to cease ­ uditor’s Responsibilities section. We are A accounts and consolidated accounts operations, or has no realistic alternative but independent of the parent company and the This document also contains other informato do so. group in accordance with professional ethics tion than the annual accounts and consoliThe Audit Committee shall, without prejufor accountants in Sweden and have otherdated accounts and is found on pages 1 to 37 dice to the Board of Director’s responsibilities wise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in and 142 to 144 as well as the statutory susand tasks in general, among other things accordance with these requirements. tainability report on page 52 to 67. The Board ­oversee the company’s financial reporting We believe that the audit evidence we have of Directors and the Managing Director are process. obtained is sufficient and appropriate to responsible for this other information. ­provide a basis for our opinions. Our opinion on the annual accounts and Auditor’s responsibility consolidated accounts does not cover this Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurResponsibilities of the Board of Directors other information and we do not express any ance about whether the annual accounts and and the Managing Director form of assurance conclusion regarding this consolidated accounts as a whole are free The Board of Directors is responsible for the other information. from material misstatement, whether due to proposal for appropriations of the company’s In connection with our audit of the annual fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report profit or loss. At the proposal of a dividend, this accounts and consolidated accounts, our that includes our opinions. Reasonable assurincludes an assessment of whether the diviresponsibility is to read the information identiance is a high level of assurance, but is not a dend is justifiable considering the requirefied above and consider whether the informaguarantee that an audit conducted in accordments which the company's and the group’s tion is materially inconsistent with the annual ance with ISAs and generally accepted audittype of operations, size and risks place on the accounts and consolidated accounts. In this ing standards in Sweden will always detect a size of the parent company's and the group’s procedure we also take into account our material misstatement when it exists. Misequity, consolidation requirements, liquidity knowledge otherwise obtained in the audit statements can arise from fraud or error and and position in general. and assess whether the information otherwise are considered material if, individually or in the The Board of Directors is responsible for appears to be materially misstated. aggregate, they could reasonably be expected the company’s organization and the adminisIf we, based on the work performed conto influence the economic decisions of users tration of the company’s affairs. This includes cerning this information, conclude that there is taken on the basis of these annual accounts among other things continuous assessment a material misstatement of this other informaand consolidated accounts. of the company’s and the group’s financial tion, we are required to report that fact. We A further description of our responsibility ­situation and ensuring that the company's have nothing to report in this regard. for the audit of the annual accounts organization is designed so that the accountand ­consolidated accounts is available on ing, management of assets and the compaResponsibilities of the Board of Directors Revisors­inspektionen’s website: ny’s financial affairs otherwise are controlled in and the Managing Director www.revisorsinspektionen.se/revisornsansvar. a reassuring manner. The Managing Director The Board of Directors and the Managing This description is part of the auditor's report. shall manage the ongoing administration Director are responsible for the preparation of according to the Board of Directors’ guidelines the annual accounts and consolidated Report on other legal and instructions and among other matters accounts and that they give a fair presentation and regulatory requirements take measures that are necessary to fulfil the in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act Opinions company’s accounting in accordance with law and, concerning the consolidated accounts, in In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and handle the management of assets in a accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU. and consolidated accounts, we have also reassuring manner. The Board of Directors and the Managing audited the administration of the Board of Director are also responsible for such internal Directors and the Managing Director of Saab Auditor’s responsibility control as they determine is necessary to AB (publ) for the year 2018 and the proposed Our objective concerning the audit of the ­enable the preparation of annual accounts appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. administration, and thereby our opinion about and consolidated accounts that are free from We recommend to the general meeting of discharge from liability, is to obtain audit evimaterial misstatement, whether due to fraud shareholders that the profit be appropriated in dence to assess with a reasonable degree of or error. accordance with the proposal in the statutory assurance whether any member of the Board In preparing the annual accounts and conadministration report and that the members of of Directors or the Managing Director in any solidated accounts, The Board of Directors the Board of Directors and the Managing material respect: and the Managing Director are responsible for Director be discharged from liability for the • has undertaken any action or been guilty of the assessment of the company’s and the financial year. any omission which can give rise to liability to group’s ability to continue as a going concern. the company, or They disclose, as applicable, matters related Basis for Opinions • in any other way has acted in contravention of to going concern and using the going concern We conducted the audit in accordance with the Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act basis of accounting. The going concern basis generally accepted auditing standards in or the Articles of Association. of accounting is however not applied if the ­Sweden. Our responsibilities under those Board of Directors and the Managing Director standards are further described in the S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 139 A uditor ' s R eport Our objective concerning the audit of the A corporate governance statement has been ­proposed appropriations of the company’s prepared. Disclosures in accordance with profit or loss, and thereby our opinion about chapter 6 section 6 the second ­paragraph this, is to assess with reasonable degree of points 2-6 of the Annual Accounts Act and assurance whether the proposal is in accordchapter 7 section 31 the second ­paragraph ance with the Companies Act. the same law are consistent with the other Reasonable assurance is a high level of parts of the annual accounts and consoliassurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit dated accounts and are in accordance with conducted in accordance with generally the Annual Accounts Act. accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect actions or omissions that can The auditor’s opinion regarding give rise to liability to the company, or that the the statutory sustainability report proposed appropriations of the company’s The Board of Directors is responsible for the profit or loss are not in accordance with the statutory sustainability report on pages 52 to Companies Act. 67, and that it is prepared in accordance with A further description of our responsibility the Annual Accounts Act. for the audit of the administration is available Our examination has been conducted in on Revisorsinspektionen’s website: accordance with FAR:s auditing standard RevR www.revisorsinspektionen.se/revisornsansvar. 12 The auditor's opinion regarding the statutory This description is part of the auditor’s report. sustainability report. This means that our examination of the statutory sustainability report is The auditor’s examination different and substantially less in scope than an of the corporate governance statement audit conducted in accordance with Inter­ The Board of Directors is responsible for that national Standards on Auditing and generally the corporate governance statement on accepted auditing standards in ­Sweden. We pages 68 to 77 has been prepared in accordbelieve that the examination has provided us ance with the Annual Accounts Act. with sufficient basis for our ­opinion. Our examination of the corporate governA statutory sustainability report has been ance statement is conducted in accordance prepared. with FAR’s auditing standard RevU 16 The PricewaterhouseCoopers AB, Stockholm, auditor’s examination of the corporate gover­ was appointed auditor of Saab AB (publ)’s by nance statement. This means that our examithe general meeting of the shareholders on nation of the corporate governance statethe 15 April 2015 and has been the ment is different and substantially less in ­company’s auditor since the 7 April 2011. scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and Stockholm 1 March 2019 generally accepted auditing standards in ­Sweden. We believe that the examination has PricewaterhouseCoopers AB provided us with sufficient basis for our ­opinions. Bo Hjalmarsson Authorized public accountant 140 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 I n formatio n to s h are h olders Information to shareholders Annual General Meeting 2019 Right to participate The Annual General Meeting will be held at Only shareholders recorded in the share 4:00 pm (CET) on Thursday, 11 April 2019 at ­register maintained by Euroclear Sweden AB Saab's hangar, Åkerbovägen 10, Linköping, on Friday, 5 April 2019 are entitled to particiSweden. pate in the ­meeting. Shareholders registered in the names of nominees through the trust Notification department of a bank or a brokerage firm must Shareholders must notify the company of temporarily re-register their shares in their their intention to participate in the meeting not own names to participate in the meeting. later than Friday, 5 April 2019. To ensure that this re-registration is recorded in the share register by Friday, 5 April 2019, • By telephone +46 13 18 20 55 they must request re-registration with their • By mail to: Saab Aktiebolag c/o Euroclear nominees several business days in advance. Sweden AB, Box 191, SE-101 23 Stockholm, Sweden Dividend • Online: www.saabgroup.com/arsstamma The Board of Directors proposes a dividend of SEK 4.50 per share and 15 April 2019 as the Please indicate your name, personal ID numrecord day for the dividend. With this record ber (Swedish citizens), address and telephone day, Euroclear Sweden AB is expected to number. If you are attending by power of proxy, ­distribute the dividend on 18 April 2019. registration certificate or other authorisation, please submit your documentation well in Distribution of the annual report advance of the meeting. The information you The annual report will be available on Saab’s provide will be used only for the Annual ­website, www.saabgroup.com, approximately ­General Meeting. three weeks prior to the Annual General Shareholders or their proxies may be ­Meeting on 11 April. A printed version of the accom­panied at the Annual General Meeting annual report will be distributed to shareholdby a maximum of two people. They may only ers who request it. A printed version of the attend, however, if the shareholder has ­notified annual report can also be ordered by e-mail to Saab as indicated above. servicecenter@servistik.se. S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 141 M ulti -y ear o v er v iew Multi-year overview MSEK. unless otherwise indicated 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Order bookings 27,975 30,841 21,828 81,175 22,602 49,809 20,683 18,907 26,278 18,428 Order backlog 31 December 102,184 107,233 107,606 113,834 60,128 59,870 34,151 37,172 41,459 39,389 Sales 33,156 31,666 28,631 27,186 23,527 23,750 24,010 23,498 24,434 24,647 Foreign market sales, % 59 58 57 58 55 59 64 63 62 69 Defence sales, % 85 84 83 82 79 81 82 84 83 83 Operating income (EBIT) 2,266 2,250 1,797 1,900 1,659 1,345 2,050 2,941 975 1,374 Operating margin, % 6.8 7.1 6.3 7.0 7.1 5.7 8.5 12.5 4.0 5.6 Operating income before depreciation/ amortisation and write-downs (EBITDA) 3,182 3,089 2,743 2,859 2,523 2,367 3,168 4,088 2,187 2,598 EBITDA margin, % 9.6 9.8 9.6 10.5 10.7 10.0 13.3 17.4 9.0 10.5 Financial income 193 121 90 169 103 62 153 162 116 50 Financial expenses -663 -272 -276 -338 -239 -428 -202 -324 -341 -450 Income after financial items 1,796 2,099 1,611 1,731 1,523 979 2,003 2,783 776 976 Net income for the year 1,366 1,508 1,175 1,402 1,168 742 1,560 2,217 454 699 Net income attributable to Parent Company’s ­shareholders 1,313 1,477 1,133 1,362 1,153 741 1,585 2,225 433 686 Total assets 56,128 44,998 41,211 35,088 29,556 27,789 28,938 31,799 29,278 30,430 – of which total equity 19,633 14,285 13,301 12,912 11,373 12,227 11,280 13,069 11,444 10,682 – of which equity attributable to Parent Company's shareholders 19,412 14,097 13,156 12,851 11,291 12,136 11,168 12,950 11,274 10,542 Equity per share, SEK1) 145.43 121.86 114.17 111.99 98.83 105.31 97.35 113.53 99.41 92.26 Net liquidity/debt excluding interest-bearing ­receivables and net provisions for pensions 2,190 344 28 -1,880 185 1,953 3,837 4,735 2,382 -1,631 Net liquidity/debt6) -1,460 -1,834 -1,836 -3,217 -2,113 813 1,996 5,333 3,291 -634 Cash flow from operating activities -490 3,164 4,154 358 -713 -662 350 2,392 4,487 1,696 Free cash flow6) -3,195 852 2,359 -726 -1,094 -1,460 -396 2,477 4,349 1,447 Free cash flow per share after dilution, SEK3) -27.27 7.33 20.38 -6.30 -9.45 -12.35 -3.35 20.96 36.79 12.24 Average capital employed 28,151 22,495 21,135 18,454 15,897 15,454 15,131 13,987 13,743 13,775 Average equity 16,959 13,793 13,107 12,143 11,800 11,754 12,175 12,257 11,063 10,006 Return on capital employed, % 8.7 10.5 8.9 11.2 11.1 9.1 14.6 22.2 7.9 10.3 Return on equity, % 8.1 10.9 9.0 11.5 9.9 6.3 12.8 18.1 4.1 7.0 Profit margin, % 7.42 7.49 6.59 7.61 7.49 5.92 9.18 13.21 4.47 5.78 Capital turnover rate, multiple 1.18 1.41 1.35 1.47 1.48 1.54 1.59 1.68 1.78 1.79 Equity/assets ratio, % 35.0 31.7 32.3 36.8 38.5 44.0 39.0 41.1 39.1 35.1 Interest coverage ratio, multiple 3.71 8.72 6.84 6.12 7.37 3.29 10.91 9.58 3.20 3.16 Earnings per share before dilution, SEK2) 5) 11.27 12.79 9.85 11.90 10.03 6.45 13.86 19.57 3.80 5.96 Earnings per share after dilution, SEK3) 5) 11.21 12.70 9.79 11.81 9.96 6.27 13.41 18.82 3.66 5.80 Dividend, SEK 4.504) 5.50 5.25 5.00 4.75 4.50 4.50 4.50 3.50 2.25 Gross capital expenditures for tangible fixed assets 1,481 1,093 807 799 732 543 328 325 262 197 Research and development costs 7,562 7,348 7,421 6,841 5,970 6,543 5,946 5,116 5,008 4,820 Number of employees at year-end 17,096 16,427 15,465 14,685 14,716 14,140 13,968 13,068 12,536 13,159 1� Number of shares, excluding treasury shares, as of 31 December 2018: 133,482,880; 2017: 115,685,451; 2016: 115,232,495; 2015: 114,746,834; 2014: 114,251,832; 2013: 115,241,831; 2012: 114,718,422; 2011: 114,069,871; 2010: 113,404,688; 2009: 114,263,900. 2� Average number of shares before dilution 2018: 116,467,822; 2017: 115,444,915; 2016: 114,971,098; 2015: 114,484,478; 2014: 114,929,422; 2013: 114,928,817; 2012: 114,395,790; 2011: 113,691,233; 2010: 113,946,228; 2009: 115,156,720. 3� Average number of shares after dilution 2018: 117,144,915; 2017: 116,310,466; 2016: 115,775,275; 2015: 115,280,946; 2014: 115,785,595; 2013: 118,205,015; 2012: 118,205,015; 2011: 118,205,015; 2010: 118,205,015; 2009: 118,205,015. 4� Board of Directors’ proposal. 5� Net income less non-controlling interest divided by average number of shares. 6) For more information and explanations regarding the usage of these key ratios, please see saabgroup.com, investor, financial data, key ratios. Financials for 2017 are restated according to the changed accounting principles for revenue from agreements with customers (IFRS 15). Financials for 2013 are restated according to the changed accounting principles for joint arrangements (IFRS 11). Financials for 2012 are restated according to the changed accounting principles for pensions (IAS 19). Financials for 2012 and earlier are not restated to operational and free cash flow. The average number of outstanding shares during the period, as well as for previously reported periods for comparative purposes, have been adjusted in accordance with IAS 33 “Earnings per share”, in accordance with the terms of rights issue. 142 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 G lossar y Glossary 9LV Combat Management System GlobalEye Airborne surveillance system (AEW&C) A26 Submarine programme for the Swedish Navy GLSDB Ground Launched Small Diameter Bomb AEW&C Airborne Early Warning & ­Control GRI Global Reporting Initiative Arthur Artillery Hunting Radar Gripen Fighter system AT4 Anti-Tank weapon ICT Information and Carl-Gustaf Man-portable multi-role Communications Technology weapons system ISP Swedish Inspectorate of CBRN Chemical, Biological, Strategic Products Radio­logical, Nuclear agents ISR Intelligence, surveillance CDP Carbon Disclosure Project and reconnaissance Erieye Airborne surveillance system LTI Long-Term Incentive (AEW&C) Programme FMV Försvarets Materielverk R&D Research and Development (­Swedish Defence and ­Materiel Administration) SOTACS Special Operations Tactical Suit FTE Full Time Equivalent T-X The United States procurement Program programme for fighter trainers Giraffe Surveillance radar system GHG Greenhouse gas emissions S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 143 S aab i n t h e world Luleå Saab in the world Number of employees Number of employees 31 Dec Number of employees 31 Dec by city 2018 by country 2018 Krokom Linköping, Sweden 6,276 Sweden 14,086 Örnsköldsvik Göteborg, Sweden 1,575 South Africa 711 Östersund Järfälla, Sweden 1,297 USA 650 Karlskoga, Sweden 957 Australia 410 Karlskrona, Sweden 733 UK 204 Gauteng/Centurion/­ Netherlands 149 Pretoria/Johannesburg/ Germany 130 Bedfordview, South Africa 649 Denmark 102 Huskvarna, Sweden 543 Finland 92 East Syracuse NY, USA 528 Czech Republic 91 Malmö, Sweden 511 Switzerland 63 Arboga, Sweden 504 Canada 60 Växjö, Sweden 342 India 47 Adelaide SA, Australia 335 Brazil 46 Stockholm, Sweden 245 Norway 46 Järfälla Västerås Östersund, Sweden 187 United Arab Emirates 33 Arboga Sundbyberg Trollhättan, Sweden 143 Kenya 29 Haninge Karlskoga Alvik Fareham, UK 141 Other 109 Apeldoorn, Netherlands 106 Total 17,096 Linköping Nyköping Uttenreuth, Germany 102 Trollhättan Sönderborg, Denmark 90 Slavkov, Tjeckien 81 Gamleby Gamleby, Sweden 80 Göteborg Jönköping Huskvarna Jönköping, Sweden 76 Nyköping, Sweden 73 Växjö Thun BE, Switzerland 63 Western Cape/Cape Town/Hermanus/­ Bredasdorp, South Africa 61 Karlskrona Docksta, Sweden 53 Malmö Luleå, Sweden 52 Lillington, US 50 Rockingham WA, Australia 50 Norrköping, Sweden 46 Tampere, Finland 46 Haninge, Sweden 40 Singapore 38 Zeist, Netherlands 34 Helsingborg, Sweden 34 Vancouver, BC, Canada 29 Other 926 Total 17,096 Contact information Headquarters Saab AB Olof Palmes gata 17, 5tr SE-111 22 Stockholm, Sweden Telephone: +46 8 463 00 00 Corp. ID no. 556036-0793 www.saabgroup.com www.saab.com 144 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 Concept, text and production: Saab Investor Relations in co-operation with Hallvarsson & Halvarsson. Photo: Saab’s image bank if not stated otherwise. Photos of Board of Directors and Group Management by Sandra Birgersdotter Ek. Print: Larsson Offset 2019.
