CSR Report 2018 The way we do business About this report Content This CSR report covers the entire TDC Group, i.e. TDC A/S including subsidiaries, unless otherwise stated. The reporting period is the 2018 calendar year, and the report was prepared in accordance with Sections 99a and 99b of the Danish Financial Statements Act. A separate report is prepared as a Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact. Comment from our CEO 4 Climate and environment 20 Our impact 5 Environmental accounts 2018 for TDC Group 24 Results & objectives 2018 6 Togetherness 26 CSR at TDC Group 7 Employee well-being and diversity 32 Digital Denmark 8 Engaging with our community 38 Customer trust and safety 14 Our business 42 Digital Denmark page 8 Customer trust and safety page 14 Climate and Employee well-being environment page 20 Togetherness page 26 and diversity page 32 Available online at csrreport2018.tdcgroup.com Comment Our impact from our CEO Our contribution When C. F. Tietgen founded Københavns Telefon-Selskab in 1882, he created a company that operated decade after decade with a deep sense of responsibility to serve as a positive societal force in Denmark. Energy 266 GWh Employees Customer relations Today, my colleagues and I at TDC feel that responsibility more 7,134 6.3m strongly than ever, in every dimension of our business. We feel responsibility to provide the people of Denmark with high-quality, completely secure connectivity. We feel responsibility to ensure that the companies of Digital Denmark have the world-class infrastructure that will enable them to compete and flourish in (SDGs) guide our work and have helped us focus on initiatives the global business environment. We feel responsibility to deliver where we can deliver most value while also being mindful of the consistently strong returns that will secure the futures of our need to keep our own house in order. CO2 emissions Salaries and pensions owners, the pensioners of Denmark. 52,867 tons DKK 3.9bn In 2018, we finalised our Partner Code of Conduct, which And yes, we feel responsibility to promote sustainability and outlines our requirements for both TDC Group and our suppliers contribute positively to society’s development; all of this is in relation to human rights, the environment, and other areas of important to us at TDC Group. We are proud to take responsibility concern. We are also proud to share that as a company, we were for the society that fostered us, and this report focuses on our the 15th largest tax payer in Denmark, contributing to Danish Corporate taxes Investments ongoing efforts to do it with determination and joy. society. DKK 502m DKK 3.5bn Data transported In 2018, we invested 3.5bn DKK in the digitalisation of Denmark, From an environmental point of view, we continued to operate 15.7bn GB and our work throughout the years has changed the way we in an environmentally responsible manner, driving down our communicate and interact with each other. Looking forward, we carbon emissions in line with our target. We have reduced our will continue our infrastructure investments to empower emissions by 65% compared with 2010. businesses, individuals and society to play and contribute in the Our impact digital world. As the new CEO, I look forward to 2019 and building further on these successful initiatives and foundations. Our work for this We are committed to ensuring Digital Denmark through both year has already begun as we strive to educate 30,000 children Employees: 7,134 Salaries and pensions: Corporate taxes: country wide connectivity, as well as through digitally educating so they can obtain their digital driver’s licences, to reduce our We are Denmark’s thirteenth DKK 3.9bn DKK 502m citizens. Digitalisation is bringing incredible opportunities and carbon emissions to achieve our target, and to continue to largest private sector employer TDC Group does not wish to take We are committed to responsible with more than 7,000 employees the lead concerning wages and and transparent tax practices, and making life easier for many. However, we are also very aware that integrate CSR into our business through our CSR Ambassadors, at 115 locations in Denmark, salaries but aims to give attractive are the fifteenth-largest contribuit brings new challenges. At TDC Group, we aim high, we want to in line with our desire to contribute to the UN SDGs. and over 100 employees in remuneration in relation to tor of corporate taxes in Denmark. be something for everyone, and everyone should feel included. Flensburg, Germany. qualifications, functions, efforts In 2018, TDC Group paid net taxes and results to recruit and retain amounting to DKK 501,765,939. We insist that digitalisation should bring people closer together. Throughout this report, you can read more about our initiatives skilled employees. We have partnered with dedicated and knowledgeable representand what we do to bring our CSR strategy to life in collaboration Energy: 266 GWh We reduced our total energy CO2 emissions: atives of civil society in promoting digital citizenship for all, and in with our more than 7,000 committed and talented employees Investments: DKK 3.5bn consumption by 12% compared 52,867 tons 2018 we took great steps together to advance this mission. who use their skills, high work ethic, and deep desire to make a with the previous year. Most of our We have a high level of investment We aim to reduce our CO2 positive difference for the benefit of our business and society. energy consumption comprises to further expand our digital emissions by 70% from 2010 to electricity we use to run our infrastructure and develop new 2020, and we are well on our way With Børns Vilkår, we developed Parents in a Digital World, a networks. products based on cutting-edge with a 65% reduction so far. universe providing resources to parents to empower them in In 2019, we aim to make it clearer than ever that TDC is detertechnologies. Our network guiding their children towards positive and safe behaviour online. mined to provide great value to the people of Denmark; to those investments amounted to 52% of Customer relations: 6.3m the total amount. With the Association of Danish Pupils, we launched WiFive, a who want great connectivity at great value, the companies of a We have customer relations digital driver’s licence supported by a package of educational digital Denmark who rely on us to help them thrive, the throughout society, including materials promoting digital citizenship and understanding of pensioners of Denmark who depend on our families, businesses and the Data transported: public sector. 15.7bn GB technology – developed for pupils by pupils. success, and to Danish society overall. The volume of data transported through our networks increases Since 2009, TDC Group has been a signatory to the UN Global Allison Kirkby, every year, driven mainly by Compact and our commitment to acting responsibly in line with Group CEO & President increased streaming. The total amount of data rose by more than these principles is one we take seriously. Input from our key 30% compared with 2017, and stakeholders as well as the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals by more than 60% compared with 2016. 4 TDC Group CSR Report 2018 TDC Group CSR Report 2018 5 Results & objectives 2018 CSR at TDC Group At TDC Group, responsibility is a natural part of our business, based on our heritage and the role we play in Coverage of households with Employee satisfaction society as a leading technology and communications broadband in Denmark company. We appreciate that as part of society, we 76 75 74 Best-in-class, have an important role to play. 1000 Mbps 100 Mbps* 10 Mbps* Scandinavia Average in 96% 97% Denmark Our approach aspirations, the country in which we operate, and our customers, Our approach to Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) therefore employees and business partners. In this context, our funda66% 70% begins in our business areas and reflects our ambition to actively mental objective plays a key role, which we have defined as: we use our core competences to operate and develop TDC Group in a bring people closer together. 37% way that promotes sustainability and contributes positively to society’s development. Therefore, with our current CSR strategy, we have defined five focus areas that we use to structure our approach to responsi0% Our focus on CSR also creates business value by reducing costs bility and sustainability and that cover the entire TDC Group. 2015 2018 2015 2018 2015 2018 2016 2017 2018 and risks, supporting innovation and improving our perception of These areas are strategically linked to our core business and have stakeholder expectations while enhancing the company’s been selected based on studies and dialogue with customers, * Measured according to the EU definition (“up to” speeds) reputation in society. Our strategic approach to CSR therefore employees, investors and other stakeholders. The five focus allows us to create value for society at large as well as our areas thus represent the issues of most significance to our On top of further enhancements to our award-winning mobile Our job satisfaction index score of 76, up by 1 point on 2017, is business, based on awareness of the social challenges we face. company and our stakeholders – and where we can make the network, in 2018 we focused specifically on extensively considerably higher than the average for the Danish labour greatest difference. Our CSR strategy and its five focus areas are upgrading our cable TV network. All in all, we visited about market in general, and among the top scores of any companies in Purposeful CSR illustrated in the figure below: 247,000 technical cabinets all over Denmark that supply Scandinavia. As always, we work systematically to identify and At TDC Group, we believe that CSR initiatives should clearly reflect approximately 1.4m customers. In 2018, we began the first wave implement required improvements so that in the future we and match our identity and profile; who we are, our activities and of rolling out fibre network to Danish households and businesses, remain among the best regarding job satisfaction and offering free connections to about 4,000 households in selected commitment. areas. Our CSR strategy: Reduction of CO2 emissions Public opinion of TDC Group as a We bring people closer together socially responsible company 70% reduction CSR agendas 150k 65% We take action on important agendas that are linked to reduction 45% our business 40% Digital Denmark Togetherness 38% 53k 44k 35% We support digital citizenship, develop We bring people closer together and digital solutions and ensure digital support an inclusive society connections for all of Denmark 2010 2018 2020 2016 2017 2018 2018 CSR base target target We run our business responsibly and In 2018, our CO2 emissions totalled 52,867 tons, equalling the Seen over the course of 2018, the average share of the populasustainably CO2 emissions from approximately 3,650 Danish households. tion in Denmark that viewed TDC Group as a socially responsible This result represents a reduction of 12% compared with 2017, company rose to 40%, which is significantly larger than the share and compared with 2010, we have now reduced our CO2 that viewed us negatively (22%), while 38% were uncertain. We Customer trust & safety Well-being & diversity Climate & environment emissions by as much as 65%. Our objective is a reduction of will therefore continue increasing our efforts to strengthen our We take responsibility for our We ensure employee well-being We minimise our customers and value chain and support diversity environmental impact 70% compared with 2010. CSR profile as a socially responsible company. 6 TDC Group CSR Report 2018 TDC Group CSR Report 2018 7 Digital Denmark With our focus on Digital Denmark, we wish to support Denmark’s position as a leading digital country – for the benefit of citizens, businesses and society at large. We achieve this by continually expanding our digital infrastructure to keep us all connected with the outside world. At the same time, we contribute towards strengthening the digital skills and digital literacy of children and young people, who with our assistance learn how to work creatively with mutual respect and a clear understanding of their own roles in social networks and online communities. Last, but not least, we develop solutions that can help solve societal challenges, e.g. cloud-based health and 68 welfare solutions and services based on the Internet of Things (IoT). In 2018, new mast positions Stronger digital infrastructure were added to our award As Denmark becomes increasingly digital, access to telephone and data connections anywhere and anytime is becoming a winning network and fundamental expectation, and demands on the digital infra­ 244 masts were upgraded structure required to keep us all connected are increasing. Access to mobile telephony and broadband is also promoting producHowever, this achievement does not mean our mobile network is tivity in society by making daily life more convenient and creating cutting-edge technologies and services. That is because at TDC fully developed. As both technology and customer needs are new opportunities. we invest in the digital infrastructure of tomorrow as well as always developing, the potential for upgrades and improvements today. Yet even though we allocate large amounts, our funds are is constant, and we will continue to regularly expand and optimise We are therefore maintaining our ambitious investments in digital not unlimited. Consequently, we must always prioritise our our mobile network. infrastructure, and in 2018 our annual investments in infrastrucinvestments based on where we can make the greatest difference. ture (capex) totalled DKK 3.5bn – equalling DKK 9.6m every single Consequently, 2018 was also the year when the first tentative day all year round. 52% of this amount comprised network Denmark’s best mobile network steps were taken towards introducing the fifth generation of investments. In 2018, the Danish Technological Institute tested our mobile mobile network technology – also known as 5G. In spring 2018, network, and for the fourth year running named it as Denmark’s TDC Group conducted two important 5G tests and achieved Our high level of investment is necessary to allow us to further best and fastest network. We regard this as recognition of our speeds of up to 1.91 gigabit per second (1 Gbps equals 1,000 extend our digital infrastructure and thereby provide access to efforts to lead technological developments. Mbps), which is 65 times higher than the average speed of TDC’s 4G network today. 5G is expected to contribute to financial Every year, the Danish Technological Institute investigates growth, the green transition and productivity in the business whether TDC and the other network operators are providing community to benefit both citizens and companies. However, coverage and capacity may still require adjustment, and MOBILNET “a good mobile network experience” at 500 randomly selected using our TDC Netperform app, users can test mobile network TE measuring points across Denmark. TDC came top with 92% good speeds etc. themselves at their precise location. We can then use BED RK VÆ mobile experiences, up from 82% in the previous survey. these data to further develop and enhance our network. S Denmark’s best mobile coverage requires investments, and in Building the broadband of tomorrow 2018, we added 68 mast positions to our network and upgraded At TDC Group, we use a range of technologies to provide a grand total of 244 masts, all helping to significantly improve customers with cabled broadband connections, including quality for our customers. TDC’s mobile data capacity stands out fibre-optic, coax (cable TV network) and DSL connections In 2018 TDC Group invested in particular. The survey report describes how TDC’s network (copper network). For the fourth year running our mobile network has been provides faster downloads and significantly faster uploads than other networks, with fewer data connection errors than our competitors. The survey also concludes that TDC provides the DKK 3.5 bn In 2018, we focused specifically on extensively upgrading our cable TV network with the aim of providing more Danish awarded best in Denmark best 4G access, with an impressive score of 96%. in digital infrastructure households with an opportunity for speeds of up to 1 Gbps. 8 TDC Group CSR Report 2018 TDC Group CSR-rapport 2018 9 This is achieved by upgrading our systems to DOCSIS 3.1 During the first wave of fibre roll out, TDC is offering free technology. connection to about 4,000 households in selected areas of Hvidovre South and Sundbyvester on Amager, and our ambition That extremely exciting and eventful journey includes introducing is to continue rolling out in waves. new ground-breaking technology while also physically converting equipment in the field ourselves. All in all, we have visited about With a connection to TDC’s fibre network, broadband speeds of 247,000 technical cabinets all over Denmark that supply up to 1Gbps are within reach – and much more in the future. Fibre approximately 1.4m customers, corresponding to half of all the connections to homes are therefore key in realising the opportuhouseholds in Denmark. nities offered by a digital society of tomorrow, i.e. handling large work files in a few seconds, streaming 8K videos simultaneously TDC connects Denmark with fibre on various screens, and uninterrupted HD gaming. Although TDC has been connecting the Danes for 136 years, new chapters are always being added to our history. In 2018, we Better connectivity throughout Denmark began the first wave of rolling out fibre-network to Danish At TDC Group, we are committed to ensuring that digital households and businesses. The roll-out is a new step in TDC’s technologies benefit as many people as possible. Naturally, this strategy of developing the digital infrastructure of tomorrow and contributing to Denmark’s digitalisation. includes access to good digital connections. In addition to our efforts to ensure that we can provide Denmark’s fastest mobile As part of it’s Rural Area Initiative, TDC Group has upgraded network with the best coverage, TDC Group has established a so-called “Rural Area Initiative” to support better broadband the digital infrastructure of 19 rural areas providing speeds connections in rural areas and engages actively with the state broadband fund. of between 30-100 Mbits/s to these communities The broadband fund allocated DKK 102m to applicants requesting better broadband for their local communities for Through our Rural Area Initiative, we offer to upgrade the local YouSee has via the national completion in 2018. TDC was the supplier for 20 out of the 42 digital infrastructure for broadband and TV connections, provided broadband fund upgraded cable projects that received support from the broadband fund, that at least 50 households no more than 500 metres apart are connections for including the most northern project, on Djursland, as well as interested in upgraded connections. YouSee can thus deliver 1,789 projects in the capital region of Denmark, Zealand and Central download speeds of 30–100 Mbps to the areas with the greatest Jutland. Altogether, our YouSee business via the broadband fund local needs and interest. was responsible for upgrading cable connections for a total of 1,789 addresses in 2018. This Rural Area Initiative has attracted intense interest, both at addresses national and local level. As a result, during the year, broadband connections were upgraded for customers in e.g. Ramløse, Hundested, Rudkøbing, Ebeltoft and on Thurø. Our customers connected to our copper network have also been upgraded as we have installed remote network hubs. This gives access to higher internet speeds, particularly in small rural towns, making internet and TV products more stable. In 2018, we thus other words, safeguarding that as a society we have the skills expanded our DSL network with 29 new hubs, including 19 hubs required for the twenty-first century – not least the brand new established as a result of our Rural Area Initiative. digital skills. Finally, we built infrastructure for high-speed broadband in With our “Skills for the Future” agenda, we highlight the chalaround 400 new housing areas using either fibre or coax lenges society faces involving skills in a digital age, and pinpoint connections (cable TV network) to provide more than 15,000 what is required to ensure the necessary future skills. households with access to the best digital connections. Consequently, in 2018, TDC Group, together with Netcompany, Skills for the future Danske Bank and Copenhagen Airport, launched the “Digital As the leading supplier of digital connections, we find it natural to Dogme” initiative as a mutual commitment to upgrading take co-responsibility for ensuring that as individuals and as a employees’ digital skills and sharing knowledge among compasociety we have the skills required for a digital age. This relates to nies across industries and sectors. The lack of digital skills in technical, creative and social skills that are crucial for developing Denmark is constantly increasing, and our companies are as individuals and treating others with respect in a digital therefore joining forces to lead the way and accept responsibility universe. This applies especially to new generations for whom the for upgrading our own employees’ qualifications rather than just digital world is a reality almost from birth. It is a huge task – but recruiting each other’s employees. By the end of 2018, about 30 also one that, as a company, we wish to take on. large Danish companies had joined Digital Dogme and worked on upgrading digital skills internally. Knowledge sharing will begin in At TDC Group, we are committed to ensuring that citizens are earnest in 2019 via Digital Dogme, which became part of the equipped to understand, think and create in a digital reality. In Technology Pact in 2018. 10 TDC Group CSR Report 2018 TDC Group CSR Report 2018 11 treatment. Similar scenarios exist for other welfare services, including education and care for senior citizens, where the societal ambition is to ensure the highest quality for the available resources. TDC Group is committed to spreading cloud-based health and welfare solutions throughout Denmark, as we see wide-spread perspectives in using our solutions to support digital work processes within home care, home nursing, retirement homes and outpatient clinics as well as psychiatry. By using cloud-based health and welfare solutions, health-care tasks can be solved more efficiently, and staff have a better overview of their tasks, experience less stress and have fewer sick In 2018, more than days. At the same time, citizens become more independent, and 50,000 can enjoy improved quality of life, with less time and fewer resources wasted on transport. In 2018, TDC Group was a supplier for several cloud-based health virtual home and welfare solutions, including a telemedicine project in the help visits were made Greater Copenhagen Area for users with heart failure, COPD patients and pregnant women who can take measurements at home and submit the data to the healthcare personnel at the hospital using measuring equipment connected to a tablet computer. resources to benefit the climate. From a societal perspective, IoT their sheltered housing or home. Every year, more than 1,000 As part of the effort to ensure Denmark has the skills to meet is often used in our cities under the headline Smart Cities, which Danes with dementia leave home and are unable to find their way future challenges, TDC Group is active in the “Coding Class” We also operate the biggest Danish municipal solution with addresses how these technologies can make our modern society back. However, thanks to a newly developed localisation unit, initiative, which we co-launched under the framework of the virtual home help using ‘online visits’ for senior citizens – with more efficient, environment-friendly and citizen-friendly – without relatives or carers can find their precise location. As the device Danish IT Industry Association. The objective of Coding Class is more than 50,000 online visits in 2018. This enables citizens to the solutions being reserved for cities only. runs on Narrowband IoT and operates via a very low-frequency mainly to stimulate children’s interest in IT and technology easily receive video calls etc. from home-help personnel following band, it is ideal for localisation in inaccessible places. The device, through hands-on coding and programming exercises etc. We up on e.g. how they feel, and providing tips on nutrition and At TDC Group, we are currently also developing and implementing which is shaped like a small chip and carried by the person with hope this will help future generations to gain a better basic medication. IoT solutions, e.g. in collaboration with Danish municipalities. For dementia, sounds the alarm if the person breaks any of the understanding of the digital foundation on which our society is example, TDC has contributed to a project that involves measpredefined rules programmed into the chip by relatives or carers built and how it will develop. In 2018, TDC Group also attracted twice the number of uring air pollution in Copenhagen and Albertslund/Glostrup, – such as a certain distance from the home. The chip therefore employees and citizens using its retirement home solution for where data from nine measuring stations is sent in real-time does not track the person with dementia 24-7; but is only The project, which became part of the Technology pact in 2018 digitalising work procedures and communication between using our IoT mobile technology. The data are used for urban activated when the person is in danger. involves collaborating with municipalities and schools and citizens, relatives, friends and employees. planning for constructions and traffic, and several other possible introduces mainly 6th grade pupils to algebraic and abstract applications are being considered. Another example involves thinking, logic structuring and problem-solving as well as waste sensors for monitoring when waste containers need dedicated coding. Finally, the pupils visit companies to see how Internet of Things & Smart Cities emptying – and when the collection may be postponed, which coding and digital tools are part of everyday working life. At TDC The information and communications technology (ICT) at the core saves time and energy and reduces CO2 emissions. In two pilot Group, we collaborate with the City of Copenhagen’s “Coding of TDC Group’s business represents huge potential for achieving projects, the City of Copenhagen has seen a 70% optimisation Class CPH” and Sankt Annæ Gymnasium, among others. rewards for society as a whole, including benefits for the health potential in the inner city, and has therefore rolled out a further sector, the environment and climate. For example, this can involve 1,000 sensors. A number of other municipalities are currently In 2018 TDC Group also took part in the annual event Girls’ Day in IoT, which allows for collecting data and monitoring processes in procuring the solution. Science, where companies all over the country invite girls to get a real time. IoT data help optimise operations, rationalise manual taste of what´s it like to have a job were digital skills are needed. processes, raise quality and improve the experience related to a The underlying technology is a core element of securely spreading All in all, 39 businesses and 1,700 girls across the country took number of services, and not least reduce consumption of natural IoT, and in 2018, TDC Group passed a significant milestone by part in the day. Girls´ Day in Science was first held in 2013 and completing the roll-out of our Narrowband IoT (NB-IoT) network, has grown bigger every year. 24 girls from 9th grade at Heiberg which now covers all of Denmark. The network enables Danes Skole in Copenhagen paid TDC Group a visit where they got a and companies to use IoT units everywhere – and even mobile IoT foretaste of what a digital based job at TDC could be like. The units such as cars or personal health equipment can be used girls were welcomed by Eva Kjer Hansen, Minister for Equal problem-free nationwide. Narrowband IoT is a new so-called Opportunities, followed by talks with some of our own female IT “low-power wide-area technology” that is optimised specifically It’s estimated that Internet of specialists who gave the girls some insights about, what it’s like for IoT solutions with low power consumption that send only a few Things has a potential value up to to work with IT and digital solutions at TDC Group. Afterwards the simple data packets. The technology has better coverage than girls got the chance to try programming a software robot under expert guidance from the TDC colleagues. e.g. 4G, and is therefore also useful for extremely inaccessible areas, as well as for smart meters used by utility companies, and many other solutions that do not require wide bandwidth. $11 trillion Cloud-based health and welfare solutions by 2025 Public health services are coming under pressure as, over the For instance, the new Narrowband IoT network is used in Aalborg years, larger parts of the ageing population are requiring to ensure that citizens with dementia can be located if they leave 12 TDC Group CSR Report 2018 TDC Group CSR Report 2018 Raising customer satisfaction Customer trust At TDC Group, we focus strongly on customer satisfaction, which we continuously monitor by implementing regular initiatives. Our ambition is to deliver the best customer service with insight into and safety user needs and digitalisation. In 2018, we therefore digitalised the customer journey, which increases self-service opportunities for both business and private customers. 84% We have launched a YouSee chat bot in order to help more At TDC Group, our work is customer-centric, and it is essential customers round the clock. Enquiries made to the chat team that our customers trust us and feel safe and secure when increased from 3,000 to 7,000 per week, and about 35% of these In 2018, were dealt with by the chat bot. Similarly, TDC Business also of onsite visits by our technicians using our products and services. experienced a decline of 11% in calls to customer service due to simplifications made and better digital functionality. Overall, the were rated as a ‘positive experience’ number of digital interactions at TDC Business grew by 17% in by our customers¹ 2018. 1. Positive experience – after service visits by onsite technicians, customers are asked to rate their satisfaction on a scale from 0-5, In addition, our efforts to ensure that faults are handled quickly, with 5 indicating a positive experience. as well as our sustained focus on “First Time Right” supported our onsite technicians’ customer service. In 2018, 84% of the visits by onsite technicians were rated by our customers as “a positive experience”. After these service visits, customers are Security at TDC Group asked to rate their satisfaction on a scale from 0-5, with 5 At TDC Group, product security is a top priority, and we base our indicating a positive experience. work on four principles: protect our company, protect our employees, protect our customers and protect the citizens. This 2018 was also a year when Telmore was rated the best mobile ensures that our customers enjoy the full potential of their brand for the third consecutive year by EPSI, a renowned Danish products in a confident and safe manner, whether they are rating analysis company, which regularly conducts independent business customers or consumers. This is of particular imporcustomer satisfaction surveys. The recognition is based partly on tance, as the digital world includes a number of risks concerning Telmore’s dedication to providing excellent customer service, data safety, privacy protection and IT crime. better content offerings and digital customer journeys. Telmore also achieved a 31% increase in Net Promoter Score (NPS) from In light of this, we have continued ramping up our security efforts January to December 2018. NPS is one of the most renowned during 2018, and currently more than 60 employees are working loyalty segmentation models in use worldwide. within the field of security. The number of chats per week We therefore make sure that our products score top marks on Attentive customer dialogue dealt with by the YouSee safety, and have specified requirements concerning sustainability Dialogue with our customers is a vital tool for safeguarding trust chat support grew from and human rights in relation to our suppliers. We strive to and safety. Bearing this in mind, TDC Group continuously strives about 3,000 to 7,000 and communicate with our customers in a clear and trustworthy to maintain an attentive and trusting dialogue with customers, 35% manner so that they feel well-informed about how to enjoy full based on their needs and expectations. We accomplish that in our and secure use of our products. shops, in connection with technician visits and through customer service calls, electronic newsletters and social media, including Facebook and Twitter, where we invite customers and the general of them were handled by public to give us feedback on our products and services. the automated chat bot 14 TDC Group CSR Report 2018 15 Safe products In addition, as part of our contracts with suppliers and partners, Safety is inherent in our products. For example, our systems use we set high requirements for IT security and cooperate closely DMARC protection to significantly reduce the number of with the relevant Danish authorities. TDC Group also has regular fraudulent mails and provide better protection for receiving mails. contact with relevant authorities in connection with threat assessments and takes the necessary measures to secure Furthermore, every month, our general spam and virus filters customers and infrastructure in the best possible ways. stop more than 700 million unwanted and malicious e-mails from reaching our customers’ inboxes. We also offer our customers a Due to our focus, investments and activities, there were no choice of products with extra security and safety features, such incidents in 2018 such as the one that affected our TV signal on as security packages for broadband and the option of parental New Year’s Eve 2016. No organisation can guarantee that it control. And we contact business customers as well as consumers cannot be compromised, but at TDC Group, we have done all we if we discover abuse, e.g. if mail accounts or equipment have been can to reduce this risk to an absolute minimum. With regular 58% hacked by IT criminals and malware distributed. assessments made both by in-house and external parties, continuous investments, control and Management focus, TDC For Continuous monitoring Group strives to be the best in the Nordic countries with regard of Danes cyber attacks are their Security at TDC Group is continuously monitored, both daily and to security. One such recommendation states that in the future, pursuant to via internal and external audits. As a supplement to our Network the Danish Financial Statements Act, companies must declare biggest concern whereas the global Operations Centre (NOC), which continuously monitors the During 2018, the Danish media has focused clearly on how telcos their data ethics policies once a year. One purpose would be for average is only 18% stability and accessibility of our systems and services, TDC Group secure their networks in relation to foreign powers and supplier Denmark to be the first country in the world to require that the has set up a Security Operations Centre (SOC) that monitors access. Security is a top priority for TDC, and we always follow the largest Danish companies actively consider their responsibility security in TDC Group’s IP network round the clock to prevent Danish authorities’ recommendations and maintain a continuous for and work on data. attacks against our customers and ourselves. From here we and very close dialogue with the Danish Defence Intelligence handle all forms of cyber attacks, including e.g. DDoS, ransomService (FE). Clearly, we are also closely following the situation TDC Group supports companies actively addressing their ware, phishing, hacking etc. We will continue to invest in this area, and remaining briefed on political affairs and naturally, these approach to data ethics principles and dilemmas. Annual Security policy both in terms of employees and technology. We not only use our measures are also part of our decision-making process. reporting will prompt healthy internal dialogue on our behaviour At TDC Group, we take overall responsibility for both IT security own resources but liaise with authorities and international as a Group, and our overall corporate social responsibility, and and physical safety by applying a wide-ranging Group Security organisations globally to gain access to better know-how and Data ethics and personal data at TDC Group we will continuously develop new initiatives via these processes. Policy based on best practice and compliance with the ISO27001 information on expedient courses of action. TDC Group has been invited to take part in the Danish Disruption We are currently adding the final touches to an official data ethics standard for handling IT security. TDC NetDesign is ISO27001 Council Partnership for Denmark’s future, which the government policy that we will publish during 2019, though data ethics certified. This international standard helps to raise and maintain Knowledge sharing and collaboration are both vital when established in May 2017. One initiative in this area has been to considerations have been high on the Group’s agenda for a long a high level of security for a range of deliveries that TDC addressing threats against cyber and information security. TDC actively participate in this work and the recommendations of the time, as shown by our employees’ great dedication across NetDesign provides for its cus-tomers. has therefore played an active role in preparing the telesector’s expert group on data ethics. departments. strategy for cyber and information security, based on the national Unfortunately, no company can guard its customers against all strategy for cyber and information security. The sector strategy risks or security threats on the internet, and that also applies to was prepared in close collaboration between the sector and the TDC Group. However, we do everything we can to ensure that our authorities and contains 12 concrete initiatives to strengthen own products are safe for our customers to use. We achieve this knowledge sharing, cooperation and joint efforts in the field of via extensive safety tests and by including built-in safety and cyber and information security across the sector. During 2019, privacy protection in our products from the outset. We also a decentral cyber and information security unit (DCIS) will be advise our customers on digital security through e.g. social established as a link between the telcos and the Center for media, our website and electronic newsletters that include Cyber Security. In 2019, TDC will work actively to successfully recommendations on how to handle viruses, spam, phishing and implement the sector strategy. other kinds of fraud. Since security threats know no boundaries, TDC Group particiWe also strive to share our know-how on IT security with the pates in international fora to be better equipped to protect our outside world through e.g. our annual DDoS report, which customers and ourselves. For example, we regularly participate in describes the trends and implications as we see them in this field. activities through Forum of Incident Response and Security DDoS (Distributed Denial of Service) is a frequently occurring Teams (FIRST), which is a global organisation of more than 700 type of cyber attack where the attacker seeks to block access to companies and public authorities sharing know-how and e.g. a company’s website by using a large number of computers coordinating efforts concerning IT security. Sharing practical from the internet to carry out a coordinated attack overwhelming information and learning from each other’s strategic initiatives is the target with a flood of Internet traffic. The consequence being of great value in continuously improving security. that the users cannot get through. TDC Group also takes part in ETIS, a non-profit association that In addition, TDC Group is a member of the board of the Council brings together the major telecommunications providers in for Digital Security, which aims to create a solid and wide-ranging Europe, where we share knowledge on attacks and vulnerabilities platform for qualified debates and policy proposals on how with other European telcos. This association is also used to share Denmark can continue to benefit securely from the opportunities knowledge about general security issues regarding products, afforded by digitalisation. technologies and the field of IT. 16 TDC Group CSR Report 2018 TDC Group CSR Report 2018 17 In the spring, as a result of a technical fault while transferring customer data between systems, almost 10,000 customers’ secret telephone numbers, addresses or names were made accessible on the 118.dk database. And in December, a human error when transferring customer data meant the unlisted names and addresses of about 4,800 customers were made accessible on the 118.dk database. Both breaches were reported to the Danish Business Authority, and we have launched various measures to minimise the risk of 7,000 similar events occurring in the future. We are therefore conducting a Privacy Review, before launching automatic transfer of customer data between IT systems, and working on continued Over awareness training, both general and tailored for particularly TDC employees and managers relevant employee groups. We have also raised the priority of have been trained in handling protecting customer data to the status of a business-strategic personal data through e-learning initiative. and other intiatives TDC strives for error-free processing of personal data, but even with the best standards and procedures, occasionally errors and data breaches and leaks will occur, at our own or our sub-suppliers’ premises. We must learn from these mistakes and inform customers, the management and authorities as well as communicating publicly about the challenges we are facing. We are also monitoring and dialogue regarding responsibility and sustainastriving to develop a ‘positive culture of error’ among employees bility in our supply chain. Our efforts have provided an even more where openness about errors and problems lead to detailed overview of our sub-suppliers, and a range of specific improvement. issues have been changed to ensure that any inexpediency at our sub-suppliers is dealt with promptly. being localised in relation to nearby mobile masts. Telcos must also be able to document the scope of customers’ consumption Value-chain responsibility Furthermore, through membership of the organisation Global for billing purposes and their use of special services such as When buying products from TDC Group, customers should feel e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI), TDC Group addresses global international calls to provide customers with the avenue of appeal sure that attention has been paid to responsibility throughout the challenges together with other telecommunications operators, to which they are entitled. entire value chain in relation to e.g. human rights and the equipment producers and organisations such as EICC, UNEP and environment. WBCSD. This involves compliance with human rights and TDC Group therefore continuously processes information about improved sustainability in global value chains in particular. Every month, TDC’s spam and virus which we must demonstrate utmost responsibility – and we are We make demands on our suppliers that also apply to their filters stop more than aware of our responsibility. The right to privacy is fundamental. suppliers – and not least to ourselves. This is implemented Anti-corruption and whistleblowing 700 million Our customers are entitled to a private life, and this is a basic through a so-called Partner Code of Supplier Conduct and in our At TDC Group, we have an Anti-Corruption Policy that sets out consideration in our work. supplier contracts. The requirements are based on the UN Global clear expectations and guidelines for employees, customers, Compact, of which we have been a member since 2009. Since business partners and public authorities. The policy is communiIn the field of protecting customer data, we apply the need-tothen, we have updated and further specified our standard cated to all employees through various in-house channels, and we unwanted and malicious e-mails from know principle, i.e. checking who has access to which personal contract criteria. are continuing to increase familiarity with in-house precautions reaching our customers’ inboxes data in our systems, and access is given only to those employees through communication targeted at departments working with who have a work-related requirement. In cases where we In 2018, we also implemented an extensive analysis to reveal major contracts. collaborate with external partners on data handling, specific risks in our supply chain, and have examined which tools and agreements are concluded on how to handle personal data. If initiatives we can implement to strengthen the screening, Although TDC Group operates only in markets that are characterAt TDC Group, we are determined not only to live up to the letter these rules are found to have been violated, the matter is ised by a low level of corruption, and has not had any such cases, of the law but also to ensure that customers can feel safe that we reported to the Danish Business Authority or the Danish Data we chose to clarify to all our stakeholders that TDC Group does are processing their data with respect and care. As a telco, we Protection Agency. not tolerate corruption of any kind. We are pleased to report that, manage vast volumes of personal data thanks to the various once again, no cases of this kind were experienced in 2018. communication services we offer. When communication takes During the first half of 2018, we carefully prepared to live up to place via landline telephony, mobile telephony or internet the new requirements and expectations in the legislation as a Since 2011, we have also had a whistleblower system that gives services, personal data is generated by both the sender and result of the new General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), and employees in TDC Group (excl. subsidiaries) an opportunity to recipient. Part of this data flow is necessary for directing the the new Danish data protection legislation. We have reviewed our report irregularities and conditions or issues particularly open to communication from the sender to the recipient. processes and changed our IT systems, and our more than 7,000 criticism. In 2018, we concluded that two reports were submitted. employees and managers have been trained to process personal At the same time, for both technical and legal reasons, we are data e.g. via e-learning. required to collect and store certain data about our customers and their consumption in order to offer our services. For example, Unfortunately, 2018 also witnessed two large personal data mobile telephones cannot access the mobile network without breaches. 18 TDC Group CSR Report 2018 TDC Group CSR Report 2018 19 the environmental aspects of our business activities and how Climate and these can be managed while safeguarding the necessary controls and objectives for improving our green initiatives. The purpose of the certification, which we expect to gain in 2019, is also to environment reduce any emissions that may harm the environment and optimise TDC Group’s resource usage. Back in 2011, we set a target to reduce our CO2 emissions by a total of 40% by 2020 compared with 2010. Although our We have only one planet to share and our environment is currently business is not particularly CO2 intensive in relation to other We have reduced our CO2 emissions by challenged by climate changes, pollution and other consequences industries, CO2 emissions are nonetheless one of our most 12% significant environmental impacts. However, we achieved this of human activity. target back in 2015. We have therefore decided to raise our reduction target for CO2 emissions from 40% to 60% in 2020 compared with 2010. In 2017, we managed to reduce our CO2 compared with last year emissions by an impressive 60% compared with 2010 and have consequently chosen to once again raise our 2020 objective to a reduction of 70% compared with 2010. In 2018, our CO2 emissions totalled 52,867 tons, equalling the CO2 emissions from approx. 3,650 Danish households. This result equals a reduction of 12% in relation to last year. The reduction in In addition to our focus on power consumption, at TDC Group we 2018 was driven particularly by lower electricity consumption are also continuing our efforts to minimise resource consumption (-12%), as described in more detail below, and lower diesel and ensure that a high percentage of our waste is recycled. consumption by vehicles (-10%). Our result was also positively influenced by the lower CO2 emission factor from our electricity For example, in Denmark, we reduced our paper consumption by a consumption in Denmark than the previous year. In fact, since total of 30 tons compared to 2017 – a reduction of 21%. Thus in 2010, the significant improvements in our emission factor for 2018, we reduced our consumption of paper to under 11% of the electricity used in Denmark have comprised one of our major quantity we used in 2010. driving forces for reducing our CO2 emissions. In other words, the power we use has become more climate-friendly since 2010. Energy efficiency improvements In 2018, we continued to implement in-house projects to ensure We will continue to focus on streamlining and reducing our optimisation and replacement of the most energy-intensive parts consumption of electricity for operating our various networks and of our network and to continually satisfy the needs of our data services. However, the challenge is to become more customers. energy-efficient while expanding our networks and increasing connection speeds to benefit customers and society at large. As one of our core initiatives in this area, in 2018 we achieved our Furthermore, towards 2020, improvements in the emission factor goal of upgrading equipment in our cable TV network to Docsis for power in Denmark are expected to be lower than those seen 3.1 technology, giving customers the option of enjoying speeds since 2010. of more than 1 Gbps. Year after year, data traffic in our networks keeps dramatically increasing, prompting a significant increase in energy consumption. Through upgrading, we have increased capacity in our cable TV network by more than 500% while also On the other hand, ICT and digitalisation hold great potential, as society (reduce energy consumption and climate impact through achieving an energy saving of 10.6%, corresponding with an society can achieve a considerably higher degree of sustainability communication technologies). annual energy saving of 3.4 GWh. together with economic gains. Environmental impact In addition, as in previous years, we retained our focus on Consequently, at TDC Group, we constantly work to minimise our At TDC Group, environmental concerns are given high priority consolidating the active lines in our PSTN network (traditional impact on the climate and environment. At the same time, we throughout our business, and have been for many years. We TDC paper comsumption 2010: landline telephony) on fewer network units, producing an energy 1,071 tons would like to inspire the world at large to use digital opportunities systematically monitor our energy and resource consumption saving of 1.4 GWh/year. Altogether, we have carried out this task in a way that reduces environmental impact, saves valuable based on the principles of the ISO 14001 environmental on over 80 TDC addresses throughout Denmark. resources and creates benefits for society in the form of e.g. standard, and continuously seek to reduce our resource improved health, increased access to education and higher consumption and environmental impact. While we actively seek to reduce energy across our whole productivity. TDC paper comsumption 2018: operation, we balance this ambition with our need to provide the In 2018, we began work on achieving ISO 14001 certification. ISO best coverage and availability to our customers at all times. In our We have drawn up a sustainability policy with four dimensions: focus in-house (minimise consumption of electricity, heating and fuel), focus on customers (ecoand energy-friendly products), 14001 is the most widely recognised international standard for environmental management systems, and is used worldwide. It can form the universal framework for how TDC Group can deliver 117 tons mobile network we use dynamic power saving techniques to allow us to reduce our energy consumption while maintaining our service level. Dynamic power saving works by turning down the focus on the supply chain (sustainability requirements results that improve the environment in compliance with our power of equipment to a lower energy mode when there is a low throughout the value chain and product lifecycles) and focus on environmental policy commitments. For instance, it will identify traffic level in the network. Between 23:00 and 06:00 at night for 20 TDC Group CSR Report 2018 TDC Group CSR Report 2018 21 Transport and technology At TDC Group, we utilise the technologies we work with to reduce our own transportation needs, especially through video conferences and home offices. Besides reducing our CO2 emissions, these solutions optimise our efficiency and can improve conditions for employees by minimising the number of days spent travelling instead of being with family and friends. Our transport policy encourages the use of trains and other forms of public transport rather than cars. In the light of this, we yet again We have increased capacity in succeeded in reducing the number of kilometres travelled in cars. our cable network with more than In fact, we reduced our distances driven in private or rented cars 500% by over 125,000 km – although we are unable to isolate the specific causes for this. and at the same time achieved a In 2017, we commenced trials with solar cells to supplement the 10.6% energy saving batteries in our many technicians’ vans, since many tasks require the use of electrical equipment. We have continued this effort in 2018. Besides the environmental benefits from using solar power, we are also hoping to save recharging time and the need for assistance when vans fail to start if batteries become flat. example, we are able to power down parts of our network to reduce energy consumption. In 2017, we performed a trial to In 2018, we will continue our pilot trial with bikes for our field understand how much energy we could save in our UMTS technicians. This is based on the fact that our technicians have equipment. This low power feature was deployed nationwide in experienced increasing difficulty in finding parking spaces and 2018, saving more than 2% of the total UMTS power consumpdriving around in Copenhagen. The idea behind the trail was that tion. Another feature activated in TDC mobile network in 2018 is the bicycles could help the technicians make their everyday life ‘Symbol Power Saving’. This feature enables the 4G base station easier and at the same time have a small positive effect on the to turn off Power Amplifiers. When this is activated, all cells under environment. In 2017, six bicycles were purchased, two of which the LTE base station enter this power saving mode. This are electric powered bicycles, while at the end of 2018 we are up functionality achieves a 21% saving of LTE power and means to a total of 10 electric bicycles. Know-how from the pilot trial will 7.7% less power usage for the entire mobile network. also be shared concerning use in other cities. through machine-to-machine (M2M) technology, i.e. telecommuniwould mean the emission level from 2015 could be maintained cation between machines, also known as the Internet of Things while simultaneously creating economic gains to the tune of Externally, we take responsibility for minimising our customers’ Vast environmental potential in digitalisation (IoT), which allows for monitoring processes in real time or China’s GDP. Additional improved societal benefits include better environmental impact in a range of ways, including continuously The information and communications technology (ICT) at the core measuring on machines that are difficult to access in order to education, improved health and even more efficient and sustainupgrading the equipment at customers’ premises. In this context, of TDC Group’s business represents huge potential for both the increase production efficiency and reduce consumption of natural able food production. it is particularly important for us to focus on minimising the environment and climate. E.g. through increased use of video resources. electricity consumption that our products incur on our customers. conferencing, which reduces the need for transportation, or As described in detail under the focus area of Digital Denmark, It is also vital that the equipment we use is cutting-edge with The SMARTer2030 report from the international organisation TDC Group is collaborating with a number of partners in the public regard to both national and international requirements. In 2018, GeSI (Global e-Sustainability Initiative) – of which TDC Group is a and private sectors on developing and implementing solutions we replaced almost 17,000 TV boxes with a new and more member – shows that ICT and digitalisation can facilitate a 20% that exploit technological opportunities to create more environenergy-efficient model, which has saved about 2.9 GWh a year at global reduction in the world’s carbon footprint by 2030. This ment-friendly and sustainable solutions. our customers. We are continuing our work on optimising our energy consumption for heating and cooling, respectively. For instance, we saved 260,000 kWh in consumption at our exchange in Kolding. This constitutes an approximate halving of the electricity consumption for cooling. The system has been replaced with newer, more efficient machines. At the same time, we updated the entire cooling principle to avoid loss etc. in exchangers, and obtain significantly higher utilisation of our free cooling chiller. The greatest energy saving in this project results from the cooling machines activating only when the temperature outside is above In 2018, we have replaced almost 17,000 TV boxes 12°C, which is a significant change compared with the equipment replaced. with a new and more energy-efficient model, which has Similarly, we are also continuing to experience the positive impact of saved about 2.9 GWh a year at our customers our rectifiers, which convert the alternating current to direct current, producing an annual energy saving of approximately 400 MWh. 22 TDC Group CSR Report 2018 TDC Group CSR Report 2018 23 Environmental accounts 2018 for TDC Group Emissions (tons) Waste (tons) 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 CO2 71,769 59,968 52,867 Total 4,334 3,704 2,964.5 SO2 23 19 16 Recycled of total waste 76% 73% 72% NOx 56 53 53 Recycled of 40% 43% 43% combustible waste Use of resources Data transported (million GB) 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Electricity (GWh) 257 228 201 Denmark 8,971 11,340 15,146 Oil (GWh) Natural gas (GWh) 0.4 2 0.6 2 0.001 0.5 Norway Total 325 9,296 434 11,774 512 15,656 TDC Group is deter­mined to District heating (GWh) 26 26 24 provide value to the people of Denmark; Fuel (GWh) 47 42 38 Please note that the figures for Norway only include data transported in our network to and from the country. The amounts to those who want great connectivity, Paper (tons) 237 148 117 of data grew by 30% compared with 2017. the companies of a Digital Denmark Water (m3) 66,000 70,300 62,600 who rely on us to help them thrive, and to Danish society overall. 24 TDC Group CSR Report 2018 TDC Group CSR Report 2018 25 In collaboration with 10 classes across Denmark, TDC Group and the Association of Danish Pupils have spent 2017 and 2018 Togetherness developing a complete set of teaching materials called WiFive – good digital citizenship. The teaching materials focus on high fives and positive digital citizenship and are based on subjects including “Good tone”, “Understanding technology”, “Good style” and “Online security”. The training programme ends with pupils taking a “Digital Driver’s License”. For many generations, TDC has played a very special role in faciliThe aim is for at least 30,000 pupils to complete an online course tating communication and ensuring connections between people. and pass a digital driving licence by the end of 2019. The project targets intermediate classes, i.e. 4th to 6th grades, but we have Our work creates a cohesive force in society and reduces distances also gathered inspiration from older pupils, e.g. at a Youth Festival at a time when proximity can no longer be measured only in metres. workshop in 2018. Both the Association of Danish Pupils and TDC Group were proud Children’s digital lives and how parents can support their children to launch the beta version of the digital driving licence and in developing good digital togetherness were also themes for associated teaching materials at Denmark’s annual learning group discussions when TDC Group, Børns Vilkår and ENIGMA festival, held on 6-7 March 2018 at Bella Center in Copenhagen. invited parents to evening meetings and speeches in both the Here, over 8,000 professional educators met for a conference on spring and autumn at ENIGMA – the museum for post, tele and literacy in a digital world. TDC Group and Danske Skoleelever also communication. TDC Group’s own employees were also equipped participated in the fair for schools held in Aarhus on 18-19 April. to tackle the subject when talking with their children about digital habits, good style and citizenship. Morning events were held at In 2018, WiFive – good digital citizenship, became part of the TDC Group locations featuring speeches by Børns Vilkår. Technology Pact, an alliance comprising the Danish government, companies, educational institutions, organisations and other An outdoor campaign hosted by TDC Group and Børns Vilkår in stakeholders. The Technology Pact aims to strengthen the Danes’ the summer of 2018 reached out to Danes with a message that technical and digital skills to benefit both the business commuhelp is at hand for supporting their children in enjoying a positive nity and individuals, so everyone can join in and help drive society online life together. This campaign will also be a clear feature of in a positive technical and digital direction. the street scene throughout 2019. Parents in a digital world Today, parents face the daunting prospect of considering and handling new challenges when their children begin exploring the many opportunities offered by the digital world. Unfortunately, as there is no sound advice and experience accumulated over several generations to rely on, many parents find they are ill-equipped to set out guidelines for their children’s use of digital and social media. That has become evident thanks to our long-standing collaboration with the Børns Vilkår organisation’s BørneTelefonen (Child Helpline) and ForældreTelefonen (Parent’s Helpline); a collaboration we value highly that began more than 30 years ago. The aim is for at least At TDC Group, we wish to take joint responsibility for ensuring that children and young people join and develop good digital 30,000 communities. We also acknowledge that parents play an pupils to complete the important role in securing healthy and balanced relationships We therefore also believe we share responsibility for enhancing WiFive – good digital citizenship with the digital world. In 2018, together with Børns Vilkår, we WiFive Digital Driver’s License the Danes’ relationships with new technologies whatever their Although developments in our digital society have brought therefore offered free training workshops and webinars stage in life. We like to ensure that the digital solutions we roll out people closer than ever before, digitalisation has also created describing the digital world children encounter, so that parents are used expediently to bring people together and strengthen social media where togetherness, norms and values are can support and guide their children towards enjoying safe and togetherness. We equip children born into the IT world with digital sometimes absent. Together with our partner Danske Skoleelever positive online experiences. By year-end 2018, more than 5,000 citizenship skills and help them to cope well in online communi(the Association of Danish Pupils), TDC Group wishes to bring parents had already taken part in these training programmes. ties while treating each other with respect. We help parents to pupils closer together and strengthen digital communities. The understand the digital world their children inhabit, and guide pivotal point of the collaboration is that pupils – not adults – are others who can easily keep up with just a little help from us. the central players in developing a common code of conduct for digital citizenship and togetherness. 26 TDC Group CSR Report 2018 TDC Group CSR Report 2018 27 The calls may involve serious problems or help with relationships involving friends, romantic attachments and parents, or feeling excluded due to teasing or bullying. In 2018, more than 200,000 children and youths contacted the Child Helpline seeking advice of the organisation’s volunteers, though sadly resources only stretch to cover one third of the enquiries. At YouSee, we believe in giving our customers the chance to support the people helping and advising vulnerable children and youngsters in Denmark. With that purpose, in 2018, customers were given the opportunity to donate a YouSee More benefit to the Child Helpline. The YouSee More is a loyalty programme offering a catalogue of benefits to customers who have a TDC Group has collected minimum of two different YouSee products. The choice includes 13,681 e-books, music, films, twice as much mobile data and much more besides. In purely practical terms, every month YouSee donates an amount to Børns Vilkår based on how many customers have chosen Børns Vilkår as a beneficiary. The more customers, the used mobile phones for recycling more money for the Child Helpline – and the more conversations purposes. All associated held with children and young people needing help. revenue is directly donated to Børns Vilkår More funds are given to Børns Vilkår’s work through networking events at TDC Business and via donations from our employees. Dialogue with young people about togetherness in a digital world New lives for old mobile phones On 6-8 September 2018, TDC Group took part in the third Youth In Denmark, estimates show that every year more than a million Festival, which attracted more than 20,000 enthusiastic young mobile phones are discarded or stored in drawers even though people. This time the venue was Valbyparken close to they are still working. Instead of gathering dust or wasting space, Copenhagen. The Youth Festival stimulates participation, More specifically, TDC Group hosted a workshop and several the opportunity to define how togetherness should develop and all these many mobile phones can create value – both for the dialogue and fellowship among young people, so that these debates on digitalisation, gaming, “girls in tech”, togetherness function while also ensuring that their good advice can subseenvironment and financially – by being re-used or recycled. future citizens can help solve problems faced today. and our social rules of play. The young people were encouraged to quently benefit many other youngsters. Securing good digital Consequently, in the past few years, TDC Group has collected reflect on and describe the challenges that digitalisation brings togetherness will always remain high on our agenda. mobile phones nationwide to ensure that old mobile phones are As Denmark’s largest supplier of digital connections, TDC Group for better or worse, especially for the young, but also in the long Finally, as network partner for the Youth Festival, TDC Group recycled in an environmentally safe manner. At the same time, the chooses to participate in this event and talk with young people term for society. Youngsters like these will be pioneering digital supplied wireless WiFi hotspots to ensure sufficient digital income from this project has helped children and young people about digital trends in society, including digital literacy, digital togetherness in the future and we therefore want to give them infrastructure for the event’s many visitors as well as organisers. develop and take part in positive relations online. communities and other issues. In our view, it is essential that young people are involved and invited to contribute relevant Throughout 2018, all YouSee shops, TDC Business Centres and knowledge and concrete suggestions for solving the challenges all TDC Group locations accepted old mobile phones donated to currently faced by society. this cause. We make sure that all donated mobile phones are sold for re-use, that all the money goes straight to Børns Vilkår and to our joint efforts to prepare parents for helping children to enjoy a good digital life. Since the initiative began, we have collected 13,681 used mobile telephones, benefiting both children and the environment. The Child Helpline – more than just a helpline It is important to TDC Group that children and young people can use digital technologies securely and safely. At the same time, we would like to use our communications technologies to ensure that everybody can be part of the community. TDC Group has Together with Børns Vilkår TDC has empowered therefore played a key role in securing a link to these children 5,507 parents with tools and knowledge to engage in since the very first call was made to the helpline more than three decades ago. By supplying telephony and internet services for the conversations with their children about their digital lives Child Helpline entirely free of charge, TDC Group ensures that children and young people have someone to call if they need help and can always feel part of a community. 28 TDC Group CSR Report 2018 TDC Group CSR Report 2018 29 ENIGMA Museum of Post, Connections for Denmark’s Collection Tele & Communication Ever since the blockbuster show Denmark’s Collection first hit Since 1996, TDC Group, together with Post Danmark, has been a Danish TV screens 12 years ago, TDC Group has contributed to staunch sponsor of the Post & Tele Museum, which, in 2016, setting up and holding the annual nationwide event where 12 of moved to a new venue at Øster Allé in Østerbro, Copenhagen and the country’s largest humanitarian organisations together collect was transformed into “ENIGMA – Museum of Post, Tele & money for humanitarian causes and development projects. In Communication”. The name “ENIGMA” comes from the Greek for 2018, TDC Group was once again in charge of the vast technical ‘puzzle’, and was chosen to stimulate curiosity and thoughtfulset-up that allows all of Denmark to call and text in donations for ness in the field of communication. the world’s most vulnerable people. As the Museum of Communication for the whole of Denmark, On Saturday 3 February, Denmark’s Collection 2018 culminated ENIGMA is also in charge of research, exhibitions and spreading with the big collection show on DR1. Homeless children all over facts and figures about the past, present and future of communithe world were given a voice – by the co-hosts, musicians, actors, cation. The new museum was designed to encourage people to TDC Group’s employees and not least the many thousands of communicate with each other and therefore contains e.g. a café Danes, companies and organisations that contributed to the with only long tables for sharing. It will feature regular events to collection. By the time the hosts bowed out at Dokk1 in Aarhus, cultivate interaction, including reading aloud for children, the Danes had collected more than DKK 78m. scientific lectures, panel debates, debating lounges and workshops. The exhibitions and play area will open in 2019. TDC Group employees volunteered and TDC technology was provided free of charge for the fund-raising event, which involved In 2018, TDC Group and ENIGMA also teamed up to organise collecting donations made via SMS and phone calls for homeless dialogue dinners for parents focused on children’s digital children worldwide. The task involved establishing two VIP call universes, and topical debates for the Youth Festival on themes centres where celebrities answered calls during the collection including digital communication, as described above. show in addition to our own call centre at Sletvej in Aarhus, where 100 volunteers received thousands of calls during the evening. A helping hand in a digital world In 2018, we also held “Digital inspiration days” at TDC locations TDC supplies the digital infrastructure that the Danes use every in Aarhus and Copenhagen, where we invited IT volunteers from day, making everyday life easier and opening up new opportunithe DaneAge Association to visit, and presented them with the ties. But not everyone is using the opportunities digitalisation latest knowledge in various digital areas to keep them up-to-date has to offer. As Denmark’s largest supplier of digital connections with new trends. The IT volunteers were invited to try 5G, virtual in Denmark, we wish to take co-responsibility for ensuring that as reality, e-sport and Counter Strike, and listened to interesting individuals and as a society we have the skills required for a speeches on TV and streaming of the future, cyber security and digital world. digital literacy. In 2018, we therefore compiled an IT manual that we hope will The DaneAge Association has over 2,000 IT volunteers prompt more people to enjoy using the internet. The manual, throughout Denmark who make a tremendous effort to help, entitled “Get up and running with the internet”, is free and motivate, communicate with and pass on knowledge to senior reader-friendly. It contains all kinds of useful information and can citizens in need of a helping hand in a digital world. be downloaded from TDC Group’s website or collected at one of our local YouSee shops. Only 10% 75-89 year old Danes are of the comfortable using the Internet 30 TDC Group CSR Report 2018 31 Employee well­-being and diversity At TDC Group, taking responsibility for our employees’ well-being in its widest sense is a natural part of our business. Our markets are highly competitive and rapidly changing, and this High job satisfaction and motivation demands a lot of our employees’ performance and readiness for Our employee surveys allow us to focus explicitly on the specific change. In turn, TDC Group has a responsibility to ensure that our elements driving employee job satisfaction and commitment. The employees are thriving despite the challenging circumstances. survey results in 2018 show that we have improved by one point on last year to a new index score of 76, based on responses from We target our efforts to ensure that our employees are thriving 93% of all employees. That is four points above the average for and feel both dedicated and motivated. Meanwhile, we also pay the labour market in Denmark and places TDC Group among the close attention to the physical and psychosocial working best companies in Scandinavia. environment and to preventing work-related accidents. The results also show that job content is our primary strength For many years, TDC Group has endeavoured to be a diverse and most important driver for engagement among employees. In workplace that welcomes all kinds of employees. We focus on a time of change when TDC Group is in the midst of a major diversity because we value having a diverse and competent transformation, we are particularly satisfied with the result. workforce irrespective of gender, ethnicity, sexual orientation and work capacity. Since TDC Group is a large company with an In order to maintain our strong culture and keep our high level of important role in society and we deal with all types of customers, job satisfaction, we are continuing our systematic follow-up on we want our staff to reflect the society in which we operate. the survey results to identify and initiate the necessary improvement actions – both in individual teams and across the workplace. Employee well-being On a daily basis, we support job satisfaction and good cooperaAt TDC Group, we prioritise that our employees are engaged and tion across the Group through a shared frame-work of work feel comfortable at work, as that is vital for the quality of our principles entitled “OurWay” to ensure that we all act based on customer service – and thus also our success as a company. We our shared values and mindset. therefore measure and follow up regularly, enjoy a well-estabEvery year, at TDC we take on trainees and apprentices to help Employee satisfaction lished cooperative relationship with our employees’ professional Education, training and mobility encourage young people to choose vocational training by associations and unions, and maintain an extensive working TDC Group is constantly evolving, and that makes heavy providing interesting and attractive training opportunities at TDC. scores in 2018 environment system that includes certification in accordance with demands on ensuring our employees’ skills continue to develop. In addition to our 55 or so shop trainees, we have about 25 76 76 the international OHSAS-18001 standard. This ensures a Therefore, the tool called “MyPlan” ensures that all employees apprentice electricians as well as other students in various parts 72 systematic approach to preventing work-related accidents, have clearly defined development goals and plans for how to of the Group, including students working in data technology, procedures to improve our working environment, regular working achieve them. 89% of all employees have a MyPlan. warehouses, logistics departments and media graphic design environment inspections and our clear focus on subjects departments as well as office trainees. including work-life balance. In 2018, we admitted 20 young talents to our graduate course for specially selected recent graduates. All the graduates repreOur preliminary assessment for 2018 shows that TDC fulfils both sented critical skills that will be required in future. The graduate the goals for full-year students and so-called student points. The course is a one-year course that paves the way for a good career final assessment will arrive in 2019. start, with the graduates rotating between departments to obtain maximum company insight and the ability to think across the TDC Group Average Best-in-class, benchmark benchmark value chain. Their learning will also accelerate with major challenges and responsibility at work, and through training in case camps in e.g. project management, presentation techniques and customer insight. We expect to enrol 25 graduates in 2019. As an employer, TDC Group has a role and a responsibility in relation to the third-party agreement between the government and labour market parties on adequately qualified labour throughout Denmark as well as work-experience placements. 32 TDC Group CSR Report 2018 TDC Group CSR Report 2018 33 challenges themselves, they register them in a central database, so that everyone can learn from the solution models used. During 2019, a special focus will be put on the conversion Psycho-social process from OHSAS 18001 to the new standard for the working workplace evaluation environment, ISO 45001. This will make us ready for the changes Scale 0-100 when the OHSAS certificate expires. (100 being the highest score) With regard to minimising the number of work-related accidents, everyone in the organisation has joint responsibility for focusing 78 78 74 on maintaining a safe working environment. Any work-related accidents are analysed by the manager of the employee involved in the incident. The analysis is conducted in close collaboration with the local working environment group and it is their duty to report on this matter in a central system. This knowledge 2017 2018 Average score for major Danish becomes part of the preventive measures that are subsequently companies 2018 distributed to parts of the organisation with similar risks. For TDC Group (excl. Dansk Kabel TV) the number of work-related accidents resulting in absenteeism was 35 in 2018. In 2018, the accident incidence rate, which is based on 10,000 employees, was 53, which was lower than the 65 in 2017. By contrast, the most recent statistics from the Working Environment Authority have also proactively supported physical activity among our (2017) show that the total incidence rate for reported work-reemployees through participation in TDC’s sports club and the lated accidents for all trades in Denmark was 151 accidents per ‘We cycle to work’ campaign. 10,000 employees. In this year’s psycho-social workplace evaluation (APV), prepared Naturally our goal is always to avoid accidents altogether, which is on the basis of the annual employee survey, the result was a why every accident, both with and without absenteeism, is score of 78 out of 100, as in 2017. 100 being the highest Collaboration with professional associations We have also established close contact with the professional systematically analysed to ensure that preventive measures span possible score. By comparison, the average score for major and unions associations and unions and our employees through the formal the entire Group. This, together with our increased awareness of Danish companies was 74. For years, we have maintained a firmly established, structured working environment fora, the Main Working Environment regularly monitoring risks, as well as a closer analysis, now under and constructive dialogue with our employees’ professional Committee (MWEC) and 94 working environment groups that way, of near-miss incidents, explains that we will continue our We also focused more clearly on personal security, and have associations and unions to ensure that employee concerns are help us comply with the Working Environment Act and the basis positive trend for reducing the number of accidents. now initiated a range of evacuation drills at our largest locations. discussed and that the parties work together to solve challenges. for the internationally recognised working environment certificate The first drill was completed as a notified evacuation drill at OHSAS 18001. Regarding overall health, TDC Group has a number of supportive Klingenberg in Odense, where over 250 employees left the Collaboration procedures in TDC Group are characterised by a offers for its employees, in-cluding health insurance, access to a building in less than four minutes. wish to reach agreement through constructive dialogue characFinally, the Board of Directors of TDC A/S currently has four midwife, quit smoking courses, advice on substance mis-use, terised by mutual trust, recognition and respect for one another employee representatives elected in accordance with the rules of emergency counselling and psychological therapy. For years, we Diversity on an equal footing. This collaboration ensures active participathe Danish Companies Act. The employee representatives We also have a diverse range of employees in terms of education in the development of TDC Group and appreciation of our currently elected are also members of professional associations tional background – everything from technicians in the field to strategies. and unions customer service staff and highly educated academics and Incident rate for accidents engineers. We believe that our diverse range of employees is a This is in extension of the long-standing tradition for constructive Health and safety strength when devising creative solutions, collaborating across relations in the Danish labour markets, with professional In close collaboration with the 94 working environment groups in with absenteeism the company and meeting the needs of our various customers. associations and unions playing important roles. We believe that TDC Group, we have continued our initiatives to secure a good (Based on 10.000 employees) the active involvement of employees and managers in developing physical and mental working environment. Our day-to-day efforts We have employees in many different parts of the country; at the company is vital in terms of the company’s competitiveness, are based on an extensive working environment system, which is 151 year-end 2018, we had more than 7,000 employees at 115 value creation, well-being and security, and for a good working certified in accordance with the international OHSAS-18001 locations in Denmark, and over 100 employees in Flensburg, environment. standard. We continuously focus on reporting challenges and Germany. recommendations on how to improve the working environment In practice, this all takes place through an extensive collaboration locally and centrally. If local improvements are involved, we TDC Group has worked with diversity management for many 65 system that reflects TDC Group’s organisational structure while ensure that these are communicated to other relevant places in 53 years, and has achieved positive results from the company’s allowing for engaging and involving employees in company the organisation, so they can learn from the challenges and initiatives. These include paid parental leave (Father’s Hug decisions and corporate development. In addition to a Main solutions in place. scheme), flexibility in work planning involving home offices and Works Committee (MWC), the system comprises collaboration part-time jobs, schemes for senior employees, ethnic diversity committees in the various entities, and permanent committees Once every spring, and once every autumn, all the working 2017 2018 Average rate and retention of employees with reduced working capacity, e.g. dealing with education and training, non-discrimination and environment groups review the areas they cover to check the local for Denmark through flexible working hours or relocation to another 2017 canteen matters. working environment. If the working environment groups are department. informed of any problems by employees, or identify any 34 TDC Group CSR Report 2018 TDC Group CSR Report 2018 35 Full-time fathers At TDC Group, we believe that an interesting working life should not stand in the way of a healthy family life. On the contrary, we believe that they should go hand in hand. For this reason, for Ambition 2025: more than 14 years we have endeavoured to make it attractive for our new fathers to spend time with their children, as we offer them up to 14 weeks of paternity leave with full pay. In this way, we have successfully included fathers taking paternity leave as a natural part of our culture. In 2018, 84% of new fathers in TDC Group accepted the offer of paternity leave with pay. Reach a 50/50 balance at all management levels gender We find employees are happier and more balanced when they have more time for family life. Mothers and fathers who share the task of parenthood are on a more equal footing in terms of Cusdam doles sedit ex eaque erunt. Pudia conse laboreptas et hicia delendis sandeli tatur? everyday life, career opportunities and the outside world. It is easier for these families to plan when to focus on their careers or Tetur? Magnimint ip family life – for the benefit of their workplace and the families. So naturally, TDC Group was fully supportive of the Government’s campaign “Orlov – ta’ det som en mand” (Leave – take it like a man), which will run until 2020. TDC Group signed the declaration In autumn 2018, an entirely new diversity and inclusion ambition on creating cultural change, so that many more fathers in was approved. Our previous policy was to strive to achieve a Denmark will take parental leave. Through our efforts to support representative gender distribution, and in the coming years, we fathers in taking paternity leave, TDC Group also wishes to will do our best to achieve an equal gender balance at all encourage greater gender equality in society as a whole. Some work experience trainees have also accompanied TDC management levels under the Executive Board by 2025. We have already launched various initiatives, including main sponsorship and participation in a conference on talent and diversity. We have Integration at work As a large company widely represented in society, we have, for Every 10th employee technicians on visits to customers and tried their hand at both the technical and service sides of the business. involved extensive use of data and analysis to investigate the many years, structured our work on making ethnic diversity a in TDC Group has an ethnic All managers who have employed IGU trainees have expressed improvement opportunities in our processes, including evaluating natural part of our work culture. In our Danish businesses, nearly background other than Danish great satisfaction with the initiative, their IGU trainees and the potential, and we are collaborating with a newly started techevery tenth employee has an ethnic background other than courses in general. We are therefore always open to both the company GoGetty, which focuses on documenting organisations’ Danish. Consequently, it was natural for us to become involved in potential for permanent employment after the course as well as determination to work with diversity. integrating new citizens in a situation where, for the past couple opportunities for establishing more IGU courses at TDC Group. of years, a significant number of refugees from Syria and other already a diverse workplace, and as managers and employees can Women and men in TDC Group countries have been arriving and beginning new lives in Denmark. see that it is purposeful and wish to take on corporate social Specialisterne At the end of 2018, 29% of all employees at TDC Group in Denmark Links with the labour market are often the key to successfully responsibility. TDC Group cooperates with ‘Specialisterne’, an enterprise that were women, and 22% of all managers were women. In our Corporate integrating new citizens in the community. employs people with autism spectrum disorders to solve special Management Team 86% are male and 14% female. Fortunately, some TDC Group employees have eagerly signed up zero-error tolerance tasks. Some of these colleagues test mobile TDC Group was one of the first companies in Denmark to set up as mentors and interpreters for the IGU trainees. From the outset, phones, and others process orders using TDC Group IT systems TDC’s Board of Directors has 10 members, six elected by the and offer newly arrived refugees a basic two-year integration the mentors contribute to integrating the IGU trainees at TDC or send letters containing SIM cards and other important General Meeting and four elect-ed by the employees. At the end course (IGU) that combines a paid work placement with school Group by ensuring better socialisation and helping them to materials to customers. This work is of great value to our of 2018, the board members elected at the annual general education, including language training. This initiative was understand the culture and work culture. Several of the mentors company, as the consultants from Specialisterne are highly meeting consisted of one woman and five men, corresponding to launched in close collaboration with the professional organisawere once refugees themselves or children of refugees. The IGU focused and have an exceptional eye for detail that our customers 17% and 83%, respectively. The Board of Directors has an tions at TDC Group, and the project is a success as TDC Group is students rely on their mentors a great deal, and the mentors are a appreciate. TDC Group has cooperated with Specialisterne since international profile and some diversity in relation to age, major support for them in everyday life. 2004, when the enterprise was founded by a former employee. nationality and professional background. In June 2018, the Board of Directors set the goal that before year-end 2020, both genders We are convinced that by helping them become integrated in should be represented by at least 25% among the board Denmark through the IGU project, we are not only making a members elected at the annual general meeting. difference for the individual refugees, but also for TDC Group employees. It is evident that when we go the extra mile, the In our subsidiary, Dansk Kabel TV, the board of directors has six reward is excellent manpower. The IGU programme helps members, four elected by the General Meeting and two elected by individual refugees to either get a regular job after the process the employees. All members of the board are men. A goal for the ends or use the experience as a springboard for taking a formal board’s gender composition was set in 2017, to have a female Danish education. member of the board by 2020. In our subsidiary TDC TELCO Aps 84% an equal gender distribution in the board of directors has not In 2018, we held six active IGU courses at Energi og bygnings­ been achieved in 2018. After a woman left the board of directors teknik (Energy and building technology), Facility, and YouSee of new fathers in it consisted of three men. However, due to the change in the shops – for five men and one woman. TDC Group’s first IGU composition of the board as of January 2019, the goal of equal TDC Group have been on paternity trainee completed his courses in the autumn of 2018, and is now distribution is now met. leave with pay employed at TDC with wage subsidies. 36 TDC Group CSR Report 2018 TDC Group CSR Report 2018 37 Engaging with our community Our impact: Risks and potentials The most significant risks and potentials are summarised below: STAKEHOLDERS EXAMPLES OF ENGAGEMENT From a societal perspective, all enterprises, including our business, face risks and potentials. Risks • Disruptions or attacks in TDC Group’s digital Generally, our business is characterised by relatively low risks for infrastructure or services Customers • Social media society for two main reasons: firstly, our business activities do • Breaches of data safety or personal data safety • Customer service calls not involve high consumption of natural resources, dangerous • Job-related accidents and injuries • In our YouSee Shops and TDC business centres working conditions or pollution of any significance, and secondly, our geographical footprint covers Denmark which is a country Potentials Employees • Dialogue meetings with senior executive vice presidents characterised by affluence, welfare and a low level of corruption. • Productivity gains through increased digitalisation of society • Collaboration committees with professional associations and unions • Environmental gains through increased use of e.g. • Employee surveys Nevertheless, we operate a communications network and the Internet of Things Partners & suppliers • Management meetings services that are so extensive that they may be described as • Welfare benefits through increased use of e.g. telemedicine • Exchange of experience infrastructure critical to society. Disruptions to our services or or digital learning resources • Evaluation meetings actual cyber attacks may therefore constitute a major inconvenience or risk to society, which is highly dependent on stable Investors • Investor meetings (incl. teleconferences) access to these services. Part of the community • Bilateral dialogue and responses to questionnaires on sustainability At TDC Group, our approach to CSR is based on who we are, and responsibility issues We also handle large quantities of data, including sensitive including where we operate, our business areas and our • Annual general meetings personal data. Data safety disruption, including personal data ­stakeholders’ priorities. safety, could therefore have significant negative consequences Owners • Strategic sparring for society. Security and correct handling of personal data are Dialogue with our stakeholders is an ongoing and natural part of • Reporting and dialogue therefore top priorities for us. our business, as we have interfaces and interactions across Authorities • Dialogue with municipal, regional, national and international authorities society. By engaging in dialogue with our stakeholders, we at bilateral meetings, inter-industry meetings and conferences and Finally, job-related accidents or injuries can potentially occur become better at focusing our efforts on the most significant hearing outcomes among our employees, even though our working conditions are issues within sustainability and responsibility – and thereby relatively safe and healthy, and even though we have significant strengthening our ability to address societal challenges. Political representatives • Dialogue with MPs and members of municipal and regional committees precautionary measures in place. at bilateral meetings, inter-industry meetings and conferences TDC Group has a wide range of stakeholders who have an interest In terms of potentials, our business areas represent a wealth of in how we address issues of societal importance. Sometimes, our Local community • Open-house events potential gains for society through development, implementation stakeholder dialogue is formal and structured around specific • Dialogue meetings in local communities and use of digital technologies. For example, the increased use of topics, but often it is less formal and part of our day-to-day work. Industry partners • Active membership of industrial associations and networks, including networks cloud-based services may provide easier access for a company’s and committees specifically related to sustainability customers and higher productivity among employees. Implemen­ For example, we also engage in discussions on societal challenges tation of the Internet of Things and Smart Cities solutions may of relevance to our business areas through a range of forums at Interest organisations • Bilateral and multilateral dialogue on key issues and trends of mutual interest also save time, energy and money. Another form of increased national, European and global levels. In Denmark, these include safety and improved accessibility for citizens includes increased the Telecoms Industry Association (TI), The Danish IT Industry Media/journalists • TDC Group is in daily dialogue with the media, and as a matter of principle, use of cloud based health and other welfare technologies. Association (ITB) and the Danish Chamber of Commerce, and in we contribute constructively to interviews and other inquiries from media Europe, the European Telecommunications Network Operators’ and journalists Association (ETNO), as well as the Global e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI) and the association of mobile network operators worldwide GSMA. Darker shading indicates deeper interaction with the stakeholder group The following table gives an overview of our stakeholders as well as examples of the forms of our stakeholder dialogue. 38 TDC Group CSR Report 2018 TDC Group CSR Report 2018 39 UN Global Compact Today, many societal challenges are global in nature, and since 2009, we have therefore participated in the UN Global Compact, the largest global initiative on corporate social responsibility. The compact is based on ten principles in four areas: human rights, labour rights, the environment and anti-corruption. Our participation in the UN Global Compact is also an important way for TDC Group to demonstrate its commitment to supporting and securing internationally recognised human rights. These are addressed more specifically as integral aspects of our five CSR focus areas, without a distinct policy on human rights. The principles of the Global Compact also serve as inspiration for our strategy, for example, in the areas of sustainability and respon­ sibility in the supply chain. UN Sustainable Development Goals At TDC Group we also aspire to support and contribute positively goals in relation to our contribution as a company, as shown in to the global goals for sustainable development defined under the figure below. These are the areas in which we believe we can the UN framework – the SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals). make the greatest difference in a meaningful way through our Consequently, we have identified the three most important global business activities. The following SDGs are the most important in relation to our impact CSR ambassadors In 2016, to strengthen our CSR activities and demonstrate these Digital skills efforts on a day-to-day basis throughout our business, we launched a team of “CSR ambassadors” among our employees. We join forces with civil society organisations to promote digital skills, digital citizenship and positive online communities, focusing The active involvement of our employees across the Group and especially on children and parents. anchoring individual initiatives in our various business areas are vital. The ambassadors will therefore play a central role in developing and launching new initiatives while also spreading 100 Productivity & innovation knowledge about the responsibility we undertake and engaging We develop and deliver digital solutions that combined with our colleagues in our CSR activities. We are therefore very pleased Almost colleagues digital infrastructure, enabling flexible work forms, higher levels that almost 100 colleagues across TDC Group have signed up as CSR ambassadors. across TDC Group have signed up of productivity and new forms of innovation. as CSR Ambassadors In 2018, our CSR ambassadors contributed to a range of activities that are described in more detail elsewhere in this Digital infrastructure report, including Coding Class, WiFive, the Youth Festival, the We invest in digital infrastructure, also in rural areas, to provide initiative “Parents in a digital world” in cooperation with Børns access to connectivity. This supports economic development and Vilkår (Children’s Welfare), the IT manual we have compiled, and opportunities with welfare technology in an increasingly digital world. our “Digital inspiration days” held for IT volunteers from the DaneAge Association. 40 TDC Group CSR Report 2018 TDC Group CSR Report 2018 41 Our business TDC Group’s business model comprises a range of resources and assets that enable us to develop and upgrade our infrastructure, offerings and customer service and consistently deliver high-quality integrated products and services. This creates value for both our 4G customers and stakeholders. Network Services For over 130 years, TDC Group has played a vital role in bringing The new ownership of TDC Group brings new strategic opportunipeople together while creating a cohesive force in society. At a ties. The consortium’s long-term investment horizon enables TDC time when proximity can no longer be measured just in metres, Group to considerably increase its investments in future digital but more in megabits and mobile coverage, our role will only infrastructure. To accommodate future demand in ‘a digital become more vital. Denmark’, our ambition is to be the leading infrastructure operator with the best range of mobile, broadband and TV Our history began in Denmark in 1882 when C.F. Tietgen founded services. We will implement our strategy by differentiating our Københavns Telefon-Selskab. A number of regional companies infrastructure activities and customers-based business as two followed, and in 1995, the four remaining regional companies legal entities functioning independently of each other. merged to become a national state-owned company called Tele Network Services Danmark. In 1997, the government completed the process of Today, TDC Group is the leading provider of communications and Maintaining and expanding upon our infrastructure creates Building on top of our advanced infrastructure we offer quality privatising Tele Denmark, and in 2000 the company adopted the entertainment solutions in Denmark, with a market-leading the foundation for the stable and reliable service we provide solutions that our customers can rely upon. Developing, name TDC. A number of European acquisitions followed, and at position within landline voice, TV, broadband and mobility to our customers. This is ensured through our Operations innovating and expanding on our solutions is a core part of our one point TDC was present in 16 different countries. services. We also offer cloud-based solutions and system and Wholesale business lines. business. We offer these services through our consumer brands integration solutions to corporate customers. YouSee, Hiper, Telmore, Fullrate and Blockbuster and our business Since then, the company has undergone a transformation, most Our resources and assets brands TDC Business and NetDesign. recently in June 2018 with new owners consisting of DK In Denmark, TDC Group covers all customer segments, channels Landline networks Telekommunikation ApS (a consortium of units administrated by and product categories in the residential and business markets. Mobile network Our Resources and assets Macquarie Group, ATP, PFA Pension and PKA), followed by We have a range of strong Danish brands based on our position Skilled employees Access to the best connectivity delisting of TDC A/S’s shares from the Nasdaq Copenhagen stock as the leading provider of technology platforms and infrastrucPartnerships & suppliers Skilled employees exchange in Denmark. ture across all major technologies. Financial capital Partnerships & suppliers Brand stores Throughout the process, our fundamental objective has been to The figure on the next page gives an overview of our business Value adding activities Financial capital bring people closer together, and by giving our customers access model. Fibre roll-out to new technologies, we have contributed to enriching peoples’ Gigaspeed broadband Value adding activities lives and enhancing society with new opportunities. Upgrading our 4G network Better offerings Create and strengthen partnerships Better customer experiences Our offerings Our offerings Access to Access to Access to Access to Internet & Entertainment Landline and Cloud DSL network cable network mobile network fibre network network and TV mobile voice offerings Value created Best connectivity Converged Security Unified Reliability offering communications Innovation and digitalisation Best-in-class employee satisfaction Value created Reliability Innovation and digitalisation Best-in-class employee satisfaction 42 TDC Group CSR Report 2018 TDC Group CSR Report 2018 43 TDC Group strives to promote sustainability and contributes positively to society’s development
