Our home Our responsibility 2018 Sustainability Report univarsolutions.com Contents 2 2018 Sustainability Report Statement from President 04 Nexeo Solutions’ approach 30 and CEO David Jukes to better business Protecting our environment 31 Deliver a differentiated customer experience 31 Univar’s approach to 06 Upholding ethics and compliance 31 better business Engaging employees 32 Our global sustainability goals 07 Working safely 32 Energy & emissions 08 Sourcing responsibly 32 Resource use—waste 10 Sustainable procurement rating 33 Resource use—water 12 Responsible handling 15 Safety 16 Our sustainable future— 34 Sustainable supply chain 17 Univar Solutions Equality & diversity 20 A new age of sustainable business 34 for Univar Solutions Holding ourselves accountable— 34 The right thing to do— 22 Univar Solutions’ sustainability goals beyond our goals Our values and standards 23 Recognizing and acting on risk 23 Behind the report 36 Acting through uncertainty 24 Significant reporting changes 36 Focusing on what is important 24 Material restatements 37 Engaging our stakeholders 25 Emissions methodologies 37 Communicating our performance 26 GRI Content Index 37 Training and developing our employees 27 Shaping Univar through our people 28 Univar’s community outreach 28 Fundraising events 29 Responsible labor practices 29 Legal compliance 29 Statement from President and CEO David Jukes 3 Statement from President and CEO David Jukes I’m pleased to present the 2018 Sustainability Report for Univar Solutions. Covering our material environmental, social, and governance matters, this report serves as a comprehensive update relevant to all key stakeholders. Through transparent and quantifiable reporting, our teams will show where we have made progress and where we have taken further action to address challenges. This also marks the first report as Univar Solutions, our newly combined company created through the merger of Univar and Nexeo Solutions. In order to reflect this momentous occasion, the 2018 Sustainability Report has been redesigned from those in the past. With this format, we have turned focus more directly to the goals and achievements of both Univar and Nexeo Solutions through 2018, identifying the journey of embedding sustainability both companies have taken before becoming Univar Solutions. For 2018, both legacy organizations achieved solid results in terms of sustainability metrics. Through the year, we gained greater independent recognition of our Corporate Social Responsibility performance across the spectrum of sustainable business aspects, and within recent years each company has released its respective global sustainability goals. This marked a significant step forward in formalizing a commitment to living and working in a way that influences current and future generations to think and act differently as we work toward common sustainability objectives. While 2018 was an exciting year of progress for Univar and Nexeo Solutions, it is clear that the year ahead promises a new degree of challenge and fantastic opportunity for our new business. The founding of Univar Solutions marks the occasion to combine our organizational responsibility into one stronger, shared strategy. Given our closely aligned commitments to sustainable business, we will continue working toward our ambitious 2021 goals, furthering the meaningful change we are committed to as industry leaders. 4 2018 Sustainability Report “ In 2019, we are building on our existing goals and aligning them to the evolving challenges and opportunities of responsible business. ” This is an exciting time for Univar Solutions, as we become a leading global chemical and ingredient solutions provider as well as a sustainability leader in our industry. In that respect, we reaffirm our commitment to the Guiding Principles of the United Nations Global Compact, through which we are determined to drive environmental and social improvement in line with business growth, addressing global challenges and delivering deeper value to our stakeholders. This year we have taken significant positive steps to support progress against all six of our sustainability goals to 2021. Our performance in 2018 has been strong and we are confident in our ability to deliver further meaningful improvements across our areas of focus. The positive outcomes we have seen this year are the result of the fantastic work our teams carry out every day, working together to deliver on our common priorities. In 2019 we are building on our existing goals and aligning them to the evolving challenges and opportunities of responsible business as well as to our new vision, mission, and cultural values. Simple and straightforward, our vision is to redefine distribution and be the most valued chemical and ingredient distributor on the planet. This means being valued by our customers, suppliers and by our people as well as our shareholders. Our mission is made up of three points—Streamline. Innovate. Grow. Each of these reflect a clear point of reference for all of our stakeholders, identifying how we are coming together to form the foundation of Univar Solutions’ journey toward a more sustainable future. Our cultural values drive everything we do, making Univar Solutions a purpose driven, values-based company where we work daily to implement our cultural values: At Univar Solutions, we are serious about safety, we are a place where people matter, we are valuable to others, we do what we say, and together we win. As we look to develop and evolve our existing goals, we have incorporated the principles of the circular economy. This will drive innovation and effectiveness across our organization to deliver the maximum value of our resources and minimize waste. Through this, we are also advancing our collaborative efforts with our supply chain to achieve wider economic, environmental, and social value. The report that follows will play a key role in identifying the progress we make as we enhance our global focus on delivering more sustainable business across our operations and through our supply chain. We invite all stakeholders to make use of this material and join Univar Solutions in our sustainability journey. I am truly thankful for the opportunity to lead Univar Solutions as we focus on creating a better world through our business; after all it is Our Home, Our Responsibility. Statement from President and CEO David Jukes 5 Univar’s approach to better business 6 2018 Sustainability Report Our global sustainability goals Univar approached the global issues surrounding sustainability in business with the mind-set that it is Our Home, Our Responsibility. The global sustainabilmore closely in the following sections ity goals first set out in 2017 remain the cornerstone of of this report. Where specific targets have our global efforts to embed more sustainable practices been achieved, we have highlighted our successacross our business. Our goals, on our six key areas of es and proactively identified new targets to support responsibility, run to 2021 with performance evaluated our global goals, driving continual improvement. In order through our specific, measurable, achievable, realistic, to better reflect our business now as Univar Solutions, and time-bound targets. we have revised the intensity metric used for energy and emissions and for resource use. We recognize the globally Our goals were designed to be relevant to the key imperative issue of decoupling environmental impacts aspects of our business where we have the potential from economic performance, and, in response, we will to influence our economic, environmental, and social now measure intensity against our growth in sales. The impacts and those of our wider supply chain. Through information provided by this intensity metric will provide improving the efficiencies of processes across our further evidence that we can grow as a business while operations, embracing opportunities derived from improving our environmental performance. technological improvements, facilitating a responsible organizational culture, and working on innovative ways In the same vein of ensuring that our goals and targets to further sustainable chemical distribution, we remain remain material to our business, in early 2019 we have confident in our ability to achieve these goals. taken action to update our goal on resource use. Full details on our enhancement of this goal and our shift The specific targets associated with each of our goals towards supporting the circular economy are presented and our performance from 2016 to 2018 are identified later in this report. Energy & Resource Responsible Emissions Use Handling Minimize Univar’s environmental Reduce resource consumption Protect our people, communities, impact by reducing energy usage of operations while delivering and environment by leading a and associated emissions. business growth. “Zero Release” culture to minimize major releases. Sustainable Equality & Safety Supply Chain Diversity Continuously improve Univar’s Lead on transparency in the supply Demonstrate Univar’s commitment proud safety record, protecting chain as we responsibly manage to providing equal opportunities to our workforce and demonstrating and influence the environmental all employees, through training, we are serious about safety. and social impacts of our suppliers. education, and reporting. Univar’s approach to better business 7 Energy & Goal: Minimize Univar’s environmental emissions impact by reducing energy usage and associated emissions. Measurement: Reduce energy use (MWh) and emissions (tCO2e) 15 percent by 2021 from 2016 baseline per million USD in sales. The quantity of energy used as part of our operations and environmental impacts are inherently parallel. and emissions to atmosphere of greenhouse gases Through investing in our infrastructure, changing the continue to be significant environmental aspects of way we look at energy use, collaborating with our supply our day-to-day business. As a world leader in chemical chain, and using technology to eliminate sources of distribution, the use of energy of our fleet, plants, and energy use, we are showing our resolve to grow our offices will always be a part of our business. However, business responsibly. we do not believe that the paths of business growth Progress against our global goal Our actions to improve our environmental performance have, since 2016, resulted in total energy reductions of 2.8 percent against our intensity metric of sales value 6% reduction in 2.8% reduction in and a reduction in emissions of almost 6 percent CO2 equivalent energy use intensity against the same benchmark. To the right are our key emissions equivalent emissions achievements to date from 2016. Our progress to date against our energy and emissions goals to 2021 is encouraging. However, with approxi11.4% absolute 5.8% absolute mately 3 percent reduction in energy use so far and a reduction in reduction in further 12 percent reduction targeted for the next three Scope 2 emissions electricity use years, we cannot relent in our efforts to maximize our energy efficiency. The improvements in our intensity metrics from 2016 to 2018 are shown on page 9. 25% absolute Almost 2 million Behind the figures above, the table overleaf details the reduction in use kWh of renewable exact breakdown of the energy use and emissions of, and emissions energy used resulting from our operations globally over the last three from, gasoline years. The changes apparent in these figures is due to both the inclusion of acquisition data since 2017 and the refinement of existing data sources. When looking at our wider impacts, it is important to also consider our Energy use (MWh) Emissions (tCO2e) absolute impacts. Despite significant business growth per million USD per million USD over the last three years, our emissions have effectively remained static, again evidencing the real change 2.76% improvement 6.11% improvement across our regions. 8 2018 Sustainability Report Univar’s global energy use & emissions MWh tCO2e 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Diesel 322,299 326,142 349,190 81,060 82,011 86,422 Natural gas 142,181 161,425 163,110 26,161 29,729 30,006 Gasoline 47,960 40,309 35,982 11,536 9,694 8,412 Scope 1 LPG 26,544 21,389 22,702 5,696 4,588 4,869 Gas oil 5,563 ‘5,869 5,163 1,537 1,619 1,428 Biogas n/a 625 668 n/a Coal 720 232 Scope 1 total 545,267 555,759 576,815 126,222 127,641 131,137 Electricity 92,943 94,520 87,555 36,996 36,894 32,891 Renewable 249 228 228 0 0 0 Scope 2 Electricity* Steam 2,012 1,329 1,278 411 262 240 Scope 2 total 95,204 96,077 89,061 37,407 37,156 33,131 Global total 640,471 651,836 665,876 163,629 164,797 164,268 *Certified 0g/kWh renewable energy credits. Not only have we seen positive steps in reducing our amount of gasoline consumed (27 percent). Combined, key intensity metrics from 2016, our culminated efforts the efforts of our global teams in these areas have resultto reduce electricity use and to optimize fleet utilitzation ed in annual emission reductions of 7,200 metric tons of have resulted in absolute reductions in the amount of CO2 equivalent from our operations. electricity consumed (11 percent) and reduction in the Univar’s approach to better business 9 Taking action on our largest emission sources We apply our “focusing on what matters” approach to 2018 also marked the start of our investment in our energy and emissions sources. As a world leading alternatively powered, low-emission vehicles for our chemical and ingredient distributor, the energy and non-commercial fleet. As we move into 2019, we will be emissions from our fleet’s fuel use is without question actively working to expand our offerings for non-internal the largest single source across our operations. In combustion engine (ICE) powered company car options 2018 fuel use from our commercial and fleet vehicles across our regions with increasing infrastructure to accounted for over 50 percent of Univar’s global energy allow for clean fleet charging at a number of our sites. use and emissions. Our influence in mitigating the impacts on climate While we trust that lowand zero-emission technology change are not limited to the impacts we can have on will, in time, become available and usable for our our own operations. Since 2010 Univar has, alongside commercial fleets, we are not there. In the meantime other chemical organizations and the United Nations we remain focused on driving improvements through Environment Programme, contributed to research on operational excellence in our fleet, delivering even alternatives to high global warming potential and better customer service while reducing fuel use and ozone depleting agents. In Univar’s work on this associated emissions of our existing fleet. globally significant topic, our technical expertise in Brazil has been used to help formulate and create Across all of our regions in 2018 we have progressed more environmentally responsible alternatives to the with taking actions to improve fleet fuel efficiencies. use of the damaging HCFC-141b as a blowing agent in Our significant continual investment in our Transport polyurethane foams. As we near the 2020 phase out Management Systems in EMEA has delivered notable of this chemical, alternatives are now well established, improvements in the average fuel efficiencies across delivering the useful properties with significantly lower the region. These systems are increasing the integration environmental impacts. The skills and knowledge of of technology in our fleet and offer further route our people are a key strength of our business and are optimization and delivery response efficiencies. an essential part of our sustainable future. Resource Goal: Reduce resource consumption use—waste of operations while delivering business growth. Measurement: Reduce hazardous waste 15 percent by 2021 against 2016 baseline per million USD in sales. It is important that we recognize the hazards to both the environment and human health posed by some of the products we handle, process, and distribute. Equally important is ensuring that, where we cannot eliminate waste streams, we apply a responsible approach where disposal is a last option. Our approach to the management of waste is closely tied to the waste management hierarchy and ensures that our focus is prioritizing waste reduction. While we have seen an absolute increase in hazardous waste from 2017, reflecting unique operational challenges, we have still achieved both absolute and intensity based reductions in our total hazardous waste quantities from our 2016 baseline. 10 2018 Sustainability Report Progress against our global goal The increased focus of our site Operations Managers and regional management teams coupled with the proenvironmental operational excellence mind-set across 1,100 less 11.3% Absolute the company have contributed to our achievements metric tons intensity reduction around hazardous waste. The highlights of our hazardous sent to based of 5.2% waste performance to date from 2016 below evidences landfill reduction the success of our teams in their efforts to manage waste responsibly. Specifically, our performance against our goal on Cumulative 17% increase hazardous waste is highlighted below: reduction in waste of almost recycled or 3,000 metric recovered tons 2016 2017 2018 Change 2016-2018 Hazardous waste per 1.21 0.89 1.08 -11.3% million USD in sales (metric tons) This 11.3 percent intensity based reduction sets us well meaningful change to which we are committed. on course for achieving our global goals of a 15 percent However, it is important to recognize all of the changes reduction by 2021. Through our ongoing global efforts in the make-up of our hazardous waste, allowing us to to prioritize waste minimization we are confident that identify areas to make further improvements. we can exceed the goals set by 2021, delivering on the 2016 2017 2018 Packaging recycled 189 335 119 (not-used in its current form) Other recycled 3,024 2,286 3,532 Incineration with 1,638 1,561 1,922 energy recovery Incineration without 560 449 552 energy recovery Landfill 1,471 1,004 304 Other disposal 2,928 1,743 2,875 (biological treatment etc.) Total hazardous waste 9,810 7,378 9,304 *Figures in metric tons. Univar’s approach to better business 11 Not only have we achieved absolute and intensity We have also seen our waste prevention and responsible reductions in the global totals for hazardous waste, our management efforts reflected in our 2018 breakdown application of responsible disposal practices has seen our of non-hazardous waste. While not part of our target, hazardous waste to landfill, after treatment, fall from 15 the reduction of waste is an area of key importance for percent of the total in 2016 down to just 3 percent in 2018. our operations. As shown below, our waste totals have Through this, over 1,100 metric tons of hazardous waste reduced year-on-year both in absolute and on an were diverted from landfill in just 12 months. intensity basis. 2016 2017 2018 16,363 14,827 13,966 Total non-hazardous waste (metric tons) Reduced absolute Reduced total waste Increased packaging non-hazardous waste by over 3,900 metric recycling 14% from 2016 by 14.6% tons since 2016 Working across functions, our teams recognize the will be working to further our encouraging performance opportunity to further reduce total waste quantities and with particular focus on waste elimination, maximizing to increase the application of the waste management the value of our resources, and, where possible, keeping hierarchy and circularity principles. Through 2019 we waste within the resource use cycle. Resource use—water Water is a basic human right, a resource for all, but use of potable water is not universally available. 2016 2017 2018 Across the world, environmental degradation, pollution, and population growth are having consequences on the Total 756,534 687,349 667,861 availability and quality of water for drinking, agriculture, municipal and business. On-site 46,755 56,858 49,284 Our water usage may not be significant compared with source other industries, but we are focused on reducing the total quantities of water we consume. We are building Water used 275,826 284,186 247,168 on our previous progress in this area, going beyond in products maintaining legal compliance of preventing negative impacts on watercourses to working with our supply chain to encourage more responsible water use. Total 527,463 460,021 469,977 waste water The table reflects Univar’s global consumption of municipal and own source water from 2016 to 2018. *Figures in m3. 12 2018 Sustainability Report Total waste water (m3) Total water extraction (m3) 540,000 1,000,000 520,000 800,000 500,000 600,000 480,000 400,000 460,000 200,000 440,000 0 2016 2017 2018 420,000 2016 2017 2018 Municipal water Owned source We are encouraged to see that the actions taken to utilize our environmental impacts despite strong growth in this vital resource more responsibly since 2016 are sales. This win-win for sustainable business evidences reflected in our reduced water consumption through to the potential and value of decoupling business growth 2018. The 10.7 percent reduction in water extraction and from increased environmental impacts, a key focus of 10.9 percent reduction in waste water from 2016 reduce Univar’s journey to a more sustainable future. Conserving the essential As forecasts show increasing water scarcity and shortages across many regions of the world, we see it as good business sense and an ethical responsibility to ensure we minimize waste of this resource and find new ways to manage its use responsibly. The examples below highlight some of the action Univar is taking to reduce water use. Living up to our commitments The responsible use of water is a clear part of our day-to-day operations. Using preventative maintenance global Environmental, Health & Safety Policy. Across to identify inefficiencies and redesigned cleaning our operations, management is responsible for ensuring processes that use less water, sites across our regions all necessary actions to prevent unintended releases have been able to reduce water demand for indirect are taken to ensure legal compliance and reduce risk uses. Beyond this, we have worked to increase visibility of harm to people and the environment. Beyond our in resource use including water in 2018. With greater spills prevention initiatives, Univar continues to make site-based visibility, we are building greater local significant investments in our infrastructure to ensure understanding, responsibility, and control of our impacts, that any unintended releases on site never make it leading to a positive recurring cycle of increased local beyond our gates, therein protecting local water action. While this is not present in all regions, we are sources from potential damage. Our multimillion dollar expanding the scope of our program to deliver localized investments in containment and water treatment act as sustainability in 2019 and expect to see more progress an important layer of our water responsibility. In addition, in our performance as a result. the Safety Data Sheets (SDS) provided to customers for each product contains important information on Engaging our colleagues on the topics of responsible the hazards and disposal requirements of that product, water use is another key means by which we are driving providing the information to continue responsible overall consumption reductions. We communicate our handling and protection of the environment down the efforts and progress with colleagues throughout the year, supply chain. and every year we set March as our month focused on water. Marking World Water Day in 2018, we held global More proactively, our operations are taking local actions employee events, sharing learning with colleagues and beyond spill prevention and containment to reduce the involving families of our people to inspire the next quantities of water they consume as part of their generation to also take action to use water sustainably. Univar’s approach to better business 13 Helping with the safe use and reuse of water The availability of suitable water is crucial for our communities, food supplies, leisure, and industry. However, with water use having been growing at over twice the rate of population growth, this multifaceted issue requires increasingly responsible management. Representing the world’s leading chemical manufacturers, Univar delivers both technical expertise and world leading chemical distribution capabilities to deliver products used in treatment of water globally. Our diverse range of pH adjusters, flocculants, coagulants, dechlorinators, and disinfectants offers a reliable, secure supply for potable, industrial, and waste water treatment markets, allowing for safe use and reuse of this valuable resource. Supporting the responsible use of water Our product ranges for water treatment are not the only way Univar supports sustainable water use and protects “ natural water systems. Our products certified under the COSMOS-standard Our products certified organic certification are produced with significantly less water polluting materials. Through responsible farming under the COSMOS-standard practices under this certification, our organic product ranges are helping keep local waterways, communities, organic certification are and ecosystems healthy. produced with significantly ” Similarly, the products we supply containing Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) certified material, under less water-polluting materials. our global membership, are sourced from suppliers using more responsible farming practices than conventional plantations. By eliminating deforestation from RSPO plantation stock, the supply of these products helps maintain high-value ecosystems, which naturally clean and regulate water flows while helping prevent soil quality degradation. 14 2018 Sustainability Report Responsible Goal: Protect our people, communities, and environment by leading a handling “Zero Release” culture to minimize major releases. Measurement: Achieve 15 percent absolute reduction in significant spills by 2021 against 2016 baseline. As a responsible business handling millions of tons and our performance reflects the improvements of chemical and ingredient products annually, there across our operations, illustrated in our global release is no doubt that the potential impact of these products metrics below. can pose a risk to local environments. The mature and comprehensive environmental management systems The figures below identify the number of significant in place across our operations, our release control releases (>90 kg/200 lbs) from primary containment processes, and containment systems are designed for 2018 alongside our global historic data dating back to prevent any release of product on site to the environto 2014. ment. Nonetheless, prevention remains our key focus Significant releases 90 81 76 80 74 70 68 60 50 46 40 30 20 10 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Significant releases In the years leading up to 2017 we had experienced a consistent trend of increases in the number of significant releases recorded. We viewed this positively, with the trend reflecting more accurate and open reporting, as our management teams focused on standardizing reporting of spills, rather than an actual increase in releases. Progress against our global goal We are pleased to have achieved an 8.6 percent reduction The continued investments in infrastructure, equipment, in the number of significant releases from 2017 and 2.6 and our people have helped us achieve this turnaround in percent from our baseline figure in 2016. performance, safeguarding the health of people and the environment, reducing product loss, and reducing costs. Although we are encouraged to have seen such improveThrough 2019 we are furthering our initiatives targeting ments in our performance, these results are not a matter spill prevention and will continue these improvements in of chance. Our global teams have worked tirelessly to pursuing our ambition to be the most valued chemical help reduce the likelihood and significance of unintended and ingredient distributor on earth. releases across the regions in which we operate. Univar’s approach to better business 15 Goal: Safety Continuously improve Univar’s proud safety record, protecting our workforce, and demonstrating we are Serious about Safety. Measurement: Achieve and exceed the global TCIR goal of 0.68 each year to 2021. We are Serious about Safety. This is not just a tagline compliance, continually working to better assess and for our organization; the health and safety of our people manage risk, and reinforcing our positive safety culture and customers is our absolute number one priority. has helped deliver a deeply rooted, meaningful safety Our focus on maintaining and going beyond legal culture at Univar. Progress against our global goal Univar’s Total Case Incident Rate (TCIR) is shown in Univar total case incident rate vs. industry the next figure, alongside the equivalent averages for all Source: U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics chemical distributors and for other industries. TCIR is 6 the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) standardized methodology for calculating the 5 rate of recordable injuries per 200,000 hours worked. Univar: 4 0.58 We are proud of the improvements we have achieved 3 Nexeo: consistently year-on-year and to have an incident rate 0.53 substantially below the averages of our peer group and 2 of comparable industries. 1 The consistent focus on improving workplace safety at 0 Univar has resulted not only in a culture of safety 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 engrained into the everyday actions of our people, but performance that reflects our Serious about Safety ethos. Warehouse/ Transportation/ All manufacturing Storage Warehousing All Chemical Chemical We know that continuing on our journey for a safer industry distributaors manufacturing tomorrow cannot be achieved if we allow complacency or lapses in focus on the importance of workplace safety. With this in mind, we are scaling up our efforts to engage in line with Univar’s safety standards on which we will all employees, customers, and suppliers in what safety always be proud to uphold. means to Univar and how we can send everyone home safe at the end of the day. Beyond this we fully recognize the potential environmental and safety hazards associated with some of our products At Univar, health and safety is not only crucial within our and as such we provide suitable guidance on the hazards, own operations, we also make safety a key part of our correct handling, use, and disposal of our product ranges. relationships with suppliers, customers, and service proWith information specific to each product, we supply key viders alike. Over the last 12 months, we have continued information through provision of Safety Data Sheets and to expand the coverage of our revised supplier assessthrough the expertise of our dedicated technical teams. ments across the regions in which we operate, raising To ensure our guidance remains up to date, we closely awareness and supplier standards of safety related monitor and adapt to any changes in relevant national and issues. Through pre-delivery inspections on customers’ international legislation, ensuring our own compliance and sites we help also ensure that customers are operating helping maintain responsible practices in our supply chains. 16 2018 Sustainability Report Sustainable Goal: Lead on transparency in the supply supply chain chain as we responsibly manage and influence the environmental and social impacts of our suppliers. Measurement: Establish and implement assessment of product suppliers for environmental and social responsibility in all regions by 2021. We see beyond the value that our supply chain offers topics. Our collaborative work with our supply chain to our business and our customers. In line with our is focused on increasing transparency of social and global sustainability goals, we are working to develop environmental issues material to Univar, our customers, the economic, environmental, and social responsibility and suppliers. Through this we are supporting the change of our supply chain. we are seeing across the industry as we move to more open and accountable supply chain relationships. At Univar, sustainability does not end at our gates. With the wider chemical industry generating ~7 percent of We assess suppliers and service providers directly global GDP and being similarly responsible for 7 percent across our operations to maintain a meaningful agreeof global energy use, it is clear that working with our ment of commitments in the areas of quality, safety, supply chain partners upstream and downstream offers environmental, social, and ethical areas. Our progress the chance to facilitate more responsible business with on engaging our supply chain, as well as our work to our supply chain than we can alone. embed sustainability into our products and services, is Throughout 2018, we have facilitated significant growth in detailed below. our engagements with our supply chain on sustainability Progress against our global goal Achieving greater sustainability in business must go beyond our own actions and requires new approaches to business, satisfying the demands of our stakeholders. To drive this forward, Univar is advancing sustainability for, and through, our global supply chains. Supplier assessments Engaging our suppliers to disclose and develop serve to assure our customers that they can be performance around environmental and social confident that we are carrying out due diligence in responsibility is something we consider key to our supply chain. In doing so, we are improving fostering better business beyond our own operations. standards downstream by supporting only those suppliers meeting our ethical criteria. In 2019 we In support of this, we have continued to expand the expect to have this expanded supplier assessment to coverage of our supplier assessments, which enable be in place across all remaining regions. Going beyond greater transparency of safety, environmental perforthe scope of our initial target to 2021, we will also be mance, business ethics, and social responsibility of developing similar requirements as part of our our suppliers and service providers. Our assessments, assessments for non-material suppliers, improving revised in 2017, not only provide Univar with confidence transparency in sustainability performance of our in the responsibility of our supply chains, but they also wider supply chain. Univar’s approach to better business 17 Growing Univar’s brands with sustainability In 2018 we acquired Earthoil, a supplier of organic life, we will be there to provide more responsible and fair trade products for the beauty and personal choices, furthering the growth of sustainable markets. care markets. Both Univar and Earthoil share a common We are actively expanding our range of products commitment to developing ethically, environmentally, containing bio-based alternatives and products with and socially responsible products, meeting customer green credentials compared with traditional products needs and supporting responsible supply chains. to foster the production of more responsible solutions Building on the sustainable attributes of Earthoil’s in our downstream supply chain. business, Univar has since gained certification to both the COSMOS organic standard and Fair for Life fair Through 2018 we have seen a continued increase in trade standard. Through maintaining business demand from customers looking for RSPO-sourced processes in line with these standards, our business material. Through our active RSPO membership and can continue to maintain the wider inherent social and multi-site supply chain certification system, we have been environmental value of these standards, benefiting able to meet the surge in demand due to increased public producer communities and supplying customers with awareness on the topic of deforestation and biodiversity products they can trust. loss. In 2019 we look to expand the scope of our RSPO system to deliver a greater range of these sustainable The offering of sustainable products is not limited to our products across a broader geography. acquisition of Earthoil. As consumers become ever more aware of the impacts of the products we use in everyday Solvent recovery and recycling Through our solvent reprocessing facilities in Mexico, we are able to support our customers in reducing the total amount of solvent used in their processes. Maximizing the Univar advantage, we can offer customers an end-toend service of our solvents range as shown below. Solvent products delivered to customers Products Products used for prepared and purpose in closed repackaged systems Products recovered Used solvents and cleaned through collected by distillation Univar Check our progress at www.rspo.org 18 2018 Sustainability Report Univar’s industry involvement As a world leader in chemical distribution, we have a responsibility to demonstrate our commitment and values to key associations and initiatives in our areas of influence. Working with customers, suppliers, and other stakeholders through these platforms to share knowledge and best practice helps us ensure responsible business remains at the center of progress in our industries. We have maintained our historic engagement with many of the key external initiatives and associations in our industries. Initiatives Associations United Nations National Association Global Compact of Chemical Distributors (NACD) CDP American Chemistry Council Responsible Care Responsible Distribution Canada Responsible Distribution Roundtable on Sustainable EcoVadis Palm Oil (RSPO) Ecodesk CropLife Canada Sedex National Pest Management Association Global Food Safety Initiative European Association of Chemical Distributors (FECC) International Labour Organization Vegetation Management Associations ISO Certifications British Plastics Federation (BPF) COSMOS-standard Canadian Paint and Coatings Fair for Life Association Operation Clean Sweep Agrichemical Warehousing Standards Association Taking sustainability to the FECC Annual Congress In 2018 Univar again attended the European Association of Chemical Distributors Annual Congress. During the two-day event, hosting almost 200 industry leaders and stakeholders, Univar delivered a session dedicated to sustainability in the supply chain. Through this session Univar explored the focus on sustainability internally and how this directly reflects the efforts we are taking to engage our supply chain in sustainable practices. Delivering this to the FECC annual congress not only serves to highlight the importance of sustainable business in the international sphere, it also highlighted to our stakeholders the unique responsibilities Univar holds and is acting on, as a world leader in chemical distribution. We are committed to delivering on these responsibilities of fostering better business in our supply chains. Univar’s approach to better business 19 Equality & Goal: Demonstrate Univar’s commitment diversity to providing equal opportunities to all employees through training, education, and reporting. Measurement (achieved): Measurement (new): Invest in an easy to use reporting system which Engage our employees globally through allows us to record, investigate, and track all structured confidential surveys to identify our complaints with regard to diversity and equal current organizational culture in areas of opportunities. equality and diversity. We remain steadfast in taking actions across our business to ensure we remain a diverse workplace where all of our people are treated equally and with respect. Upholding our standards on equality and diversity goes beyond meeting legal compliance, it is another example of being the right thing to do—a moral obligation across our operations. We see the clear value to our people, our business, and wider society in securing a more diverse and equal workplace, free of discrimination on personal characteristics. Through this we are embracing a culture of mutual respect and appreciation for the differences of others. 20 2018 Sustainability Report We are pleased to have been able to achieve this specific we are acting on what is important, creating a more target under the global diversity and equality goal. To equal workplace that fairly represents our people. ensure that we continue the positive direction taken over the last 12 months, we have replaced the measurement Achieving greater equality in the workplace, like other around this goal as highlighted on page 20. Our updated elements of sustainable business, is a journey and one target will help us to identify where we are performing where we have made good progress. Our key areas of well in regards to equality and diversity issues and focus and progress against our global equality and where we should look to focus our improvement diversity goal are highlighted below. efforts. Through providing feedback and acting on the suggestions of our employees, we can be certain that Progress against our global goal Taking action on our measurable target set out in 2017, our U.S. locations. In their first year, the group made we have in 2018 invested in and implemented globally a difference in the lives of many by sponsoring a panel our improved ethics alert line system to facilitate discussion of women executives at Univar in honor of reporting where employees are concerned about International Women’s Day and by building a foundation unethical behaviors. This improved, globally accessible for future employee resource groups. The group enables Ethics & Compliance Alertline is available to all employees all employees to connect, share best practices, build new 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. We actively encourage communities, and encourage cultural awareness across employees to speak up confidentially about concerns the company. UWIN is an inclusive group and encourages and we have a strict non-retaliation policy for all participation from all employees. employees who report conduct issues in good faith. To ensure employees are sufficiently informed on In 2018, we took our first steps to begin benchmarking how to access this service, we have maintained a clear our performance in the area of equality and diversity. consistent communications and training program Through participation in the Human Rights Campaign highlighting when to report concerns and how to access Foundation’s Corporate Equality Index we have for the first the service. time been scored on our current programs, policies, and practices on a range of equality and diversity aspects. In our efforts to promote diversity and equality in our This year we were awarded a score of 60 percent, which business, the UWIN (Univar Women’s Inclusion Network) we are determined to take meaningful action to improve was launched in 2018 across the United States as a on through 2019 and beyond. With our 2018 assessment grassroots group to enhance employee development, score we have been able to identify areas where we are elevate engagement, and build community across all performing well and opportunities for improvement. “ Achieving greater equality in the workplace, like other elements of sustainable business, is a journey and one where we have made good progress. ” Univar’s approach to better business 21 The right thing to do— beyond our goals 22 2018 Sustainability Report Our values and standards We see responsible business as everyone’s duty at programs, content-based assessments, and selfUnivar, embedded in our culture as Our Home, Our declarations of understanding required by all Responsibility. As part of this, ensuring all of our people employees annually. For Univar, ensuring compliance are aware of the values, principles, and standards we with the Code of Conduct is of significant importance, expect is crucial to maintaining our positive working reflected in responsibility being assigned to the culture. Our publically available global Code of Conduct, Board of Directors Audit Committee. available in 21 languages, serves as a key platform for establishing our expectations and applies to employees When faced with ethical questions or dilemmas that of Univar Inc., all of its subsidiaries, vendors, and may not be directly answered by the Code of Conduct, members of our Board of Directors. we encourage employees to seek counsel on the issue first to minimize any ethical issues for themselves or We continue to embed our values and principles into the the company. culture of our business through our mandatory training Recognizing and acting on risk Our global Risk Management Team is responsible for anti-competitive behavior is paramount across our identifying and assessing the economic, environmental, operations globally. and social risks faced through our global operations. With clear identification and prioritization, our teams As highlighted in our 2017 Sustainability Report, our remain focused on continual improvement. In addition global Code of Conduct puts into words the actions and to our risk management, we remain committed to attitudes that guide us; it serves as a reminder of our respecting and complying with all applicable regulatory guiding principles and cultural values. It also sets out requirements in the markets in which we operate, our expectation for all employees to take personal recognizing potential risk of unethical behavior as a responsibility for their own conduct. Every one of our risk to our business and reputation. employees must complete training on our Code of Conduct, detailing our high standards of ethical business However, not all of the risks we face come from legal and our requirements for all employees. This training or reputational sources. As a business and a society, is required annually, accompanied by an assessment we are increasingly faced with the mounting evidence on an individual’s knowledge and an attestation on and effects of climate change. Incidences of extreme understanding. weather and unprecedented climatic events, increasing in frequency, have been evident across the regions in Through 2018, we have taken further steps to ensure which we operate. The real risk of the impacts to supply that our employees feel empowered to make the chain continuity, property, infrastructure, and life only right decisions when it comes to ethical business reinforce the need to take meaningful action on our and to make their concerns heard if they, in good faith, common responsibility to mitigate and prepare for the suspect unethical behavior. We have made changes to effects of climate change. Although the costs of such our global Ethics & Compliance Alertline allowing all changes on our business remain difficult to accurately employees a platform to confidentially, and without fear assess, we continue our application of the precautionary of repercussions, report issues from anywhere across principle here to progress our work in achieving Univar’s our operations. The change in provider and service global sustainability goals. design ensures that cases can be monitored and followed up to both maintain confidentiality and ensure Along with these external socio-enviro-economic appropriate solutions can be actioned. We have coupled risks, we stand steadfast in combating internal risks this improvement with increased communications and stemming from unethical business practices. Taking transparency with our colleagues, answering FAQs and action to prevent and detect unethical business practices providing confidence that we welcome reports through by focusing on anti-bribery, anti-corruption, and this platform as the right thing to do. The right thing to do—beyond our goals 23 Acting through uncertainty As an organization we are not just committed to are expanding the application of the precautionary responsible business in principle, we proactively take principles to our business. While the focus given to measures to mitigate and prevent negative environmental the precautionary principle is primarily environmental, and social consequences where potential but uncertain at Univar we consider the precautionary principle an material risk exists. As such we support and, where equally important aspect of our social responsibility. appropriate, apply the precautionary principle, defined by the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) in Our dedicated Risk Management team and Environmental, the Rio Declaration. Health & Safety departments are responsible for gathering all available data and information relevant to the business’s Univar’s precautionary approach is enacted through our impacts, using best practice methods to assess the global initiatives on emissions abatement and application risks we face. These teams take the lead on assessing of the waste management hierarchy, reducing resource the potential for environmental and social harm, taking consumption and our contribution to climate change. appropriate precautionary action proportionate to all By taking the step to enhance our focus on resource use, perceived risks in our operations. from reduction to supporting the circular economy, we Focusing on what is important At Univar, we believe that in order for corporate Does the material relate to the responsibility efforts to be most effective, they must reasonable expectations and interests of be supported by honest, transparent discussion and the identified stakeholders? disclosure. As such, this report has been designed to provide transparent, holistic, and relatable material Is the inclusion and presentation of the based solely on what is material to our business and material relevant to the broader context of our stakeholders. The report structure and content has Materiality sustainability beyond Univar? tests been shaped by the latest Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards as well as the Communication on Does the material reflect the Progress requirements of the UNGC. significant aspects of Univar’s operations, comprehensively including our In order to determine what is considered material economic, environmental, and social impacts? for reporting, our GRI trained team applied the tests shown to the right. As a key aspect of applying the Global Reporting Initiative Economic Performance, Anti-Corruption, (GRI) standards, the report has been built around the Economic Anti-Competitive Behavior application of the GRI’s principles for defining report Energy, Water & Effluents, Emissions, quality, namely: accuracy, balance, comparability, clarity, Environmental Waste, Environmental Compliance, reliability, and timeliness. Univar’s adherence to these Supplier Environmental Assessment principles enables stakeholders to make comprehensive, meaningful assessments of our reporting. The material Social Occupational Health & Safety, aspects identified through our assessments are identified Training & Education, Diversity and Equal in the adjacent figure. Opportunity, Non-Discrimination, Freedom of Association and Collective The extent to which we cover the topics in our report is Bargaining, Child Labor, Forced or Compulsory Labor, Local Communities, determined as part of our wider materiality assessment, Supplier Social Assessments, Customer reflecting the substantive impact of material topics to Health & Safety,Marketing and Labeling, Univar’s operations and to our stakeholders. Customer Privacy, Socioeconomic Compliance 24 2018 Sustainability Report Engaging our stakeholders Embedding sustainable values into our day-to-day actions is a challenge that no organization can accomplish alone. The full value of sustainable, responsible business can only be realized by working with all of our most important stakeholders through the entire scope of our operations. As such, each of these groups, both internal and external, play a key part in helping us achieve our global sustainability goals. The below graphics outline some our key engagements with our stakeholder groups. We recognize that the focus and needs of all of these groups are different and in response we continue our transparent and material engagements with our stakeholders using appropriate methods and platforms to achieve win-win outcomes, delivering benefits beyond our own triple bottom line. Our key achievements in meaningful external stakeholder engagement over the last 12 months are covered in the Sustainable supply chain area of this report on page 17. We see stakeholder engagement as a crucial tool for achieving broader sustainability objectives, and we remain focused on maximizing the value of working collaboratively with our stakeholders moving forward. On-demand technical expertise Training and education Customers Employees Sales team relationships Competency and skills Customer feedback surveys development Sustainability-focused collaborations and joint programs Safety meetings Supplier surveys Suppliers Colleague well-being initiatives Supplier auditing Organized charitable events Sustainability-focused engagements Corporate responsibility reporting Investors and Global employee surveys Financial reporting and feedback shareholders External Internal Investor information area Senior management question Information exchange sessions Governing bodies Emergency scenario training All-employee meetings Auditing and compliance Charity and fundraising Unions Chairing committees Local communities Educational sponsorship Community development Active participation Auditing Industry groups Collaborative projects Progressive Code of Conduct Transparent reporting The right thing to do—beyond our goals 25 Communicating our performance At Univar we believe that reporting on sustainability performance and our future ambitions serve first and foremost to communicate truthfully and transparently to our stakeholders. Although reporting does not in itself change how responsible we are as an organization, it remains a key means of sharing material information and maintainabing our public accountability. Our annual Sustainability Report also provides a high-profile platform to reaffirm our commitments to participating in the United Nations Global Compact as a signatory. Through our alignment with the Ten Principles of the UNGC, as well as our engagement in the reporting frameworks below, we continue to champion environmentally, socially, and ethically responsible business as the right thing to do. Beyond our main annual report, we continue to report on other external corporate responsibility platforms, helping to meet stakeholder demands of sharing information and being assessed in standardized, comparable approaches. Through our engagement in these collaborative platforms we maintain a focus on transparency and as such have been pleased to see the consistently improved performance where we have been assessed by independent third parties. 2018 marked the first time we have As we progress in our journey to becoming a more sustainable business, been assessed by ISS-Oekom. In this we are helping our investors and customers better understand the perforinvestor-driven assessment, Univar’s mance of their supply chains. Following our latest disclosure to CDP in 2018, performance in the areas of social we are again pleased to see our performance well above the average for our responsibility, corporate governance, industry in the climate change based assessment. On top of this, we have and business ethics was identified shown our customers and investors that we are taking action to improve to be among the highest in the our performance and are acting to achieve the same throughout our supply chemical business. Not only did chains, scoring a “B” on the increasingly important supply chain engagement we score within the top 2 percent assessment. We also took the opportunity in 2018 to show our commitment to of our industry in these areas, we responsible business beyond our goals and for the first time we were assessed were placed in the top 7 percent on CDP’s water use assessment. Under this survey, considering the risks and of our peers for ISS-Oekom’s overall actions surrounding water use, we have been awarded a rating of “C” in line environmental, social, and goverwith the industry average. nance (ESG) assessment. In our 2018 submission to EcoVadis, we were encouraged by our performance improvements from the same assessment in 2017. Our While Univar is not assessed by the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (Sedex), we hold over 200 relationships with our supply chain partners “ ...We maintain a focus on transparency and... results for our latest assessment up and downstream globally via this have been pleased again saw Univar awarded the platform. Through our active Sedex Corporate Social Responsibility participation as a supplier member, to see the consistently ” (CSR) Silver rating from EcoVadis we actively share disclosures on our and placed Univar in the top 7 performance to our customers and improved performance. percent of companies assessed foster further supply chain transparin our industry overall. ency on key issues with suppliers. 26 2018 Sustainability Report Training and developing our employees Building a business where the best people want to work, Our performance management process is based stay, and perform at their best relies on us delivering on these principles: training and development across our organization in a way that meets the unique needs of our people. • Ensure that priorities are clear To meet the needs of both the business and our work• Provide a framework for ongoing force, we deliver training and development opportunities feedback and coaching across a range of platforms, both internally and externally. We offer and share a variety of leadership • Document accountability development opportunities from classroom-based programs across geographies to one-to-one executive • Provide a focus on behaviors (competencies) coaching relationships, and management development and communicate the expectation of “how” programs. We use internal facilitators to bring a Univar we work together context to the training, as well as external trainers who are experts in their respective fields. • Identify opportunities for development to improve in current role and prepare for future roles. Our employees, at all levels of the organization and across all geographies, can access over 70,000 onBeyond this, all global employees are required to demand course, video, and book titles to support their complete training on business ethics and social personal and professional development via Univar’s responsibility, ensuring responsible business is a Learning Management System. In 2018, 2,443 employees part of everyone’s role. Our extensive training also accessed our collection 11,316 times and engaged with focuses on our Code of Conduct and is required of all over 2,496 unique resources in our collection. In addition employees. Further training on anti-bribery and to the open collection, we offer asynchronous learning corruption, conflict of interest, privacy, data protection, programs such as onboarding programs to orientate material handling, and environmental responsibility is new members of our team. In the United States last required. In addition, because we are Serious about year, we launched two new learning programs—Creating Safety, extensive safety training is conducted on an a Diverse and Inclusive Workplace and Leading Through annual basis with over 107,900 course completions the Lens of the Law—to ensure that managers know during 2018 in the United States alone. what is expected of them and their role in creating a diverse and inclusive workplace, contributing to our progress on the sixth global sustainability goal on Equality & Diversity. In 2018 our Sustainability Department delivered training to our sales teams in a number of regions focusing on the value of sustainable business and products to our customers and engaging the supply chain on these issues. We plan to roll this training out further through 2019. Every employee undergoes a formal annual performance review process where employees and managers are encouraged to discuss performance and update goals throughout the year. These goals must reflect how each person contributes to the guiding principles of our business. The right thing to do—beyond our goals 27 Shaping Univar through our people Our people are a key part of what makes our business Our leadership teams across the world are taking the great. We are committed to ensuring our employees are results from this employee survey and are focused on listened to, are able to provide feedback to us, and know positive change in the areas that are most important to we are taking action on what is important to them. In our teammates. Through 2019 we will continue to analyze 2018 we took a significant step forward in building our and extract the value from the survey results, meaningfully supportive, open culture for employee feedback. Under engage with colleagues, and share our learnings and the banner “Uspeak…We Listen…We Act!” we launched improvements, which will drive us toward our vision our first global anonymous employee survey covering of being the most valued chemical and ingredient key topics including workplace culture, leadership, distributor in the world. safety, sustainability, performance, and values. Univar’s community outreach The community engagement activities and fundraising events we hold across our operations is much more than doing “good.” The projects and actions taken are driven by our people for causes that matter to the individuals that make Univar great. Our collective actions form a key part of our corporate social responsibility agenda, allowing us to positively impact the communities in which we operate, providing opportunity for our teams to give back to their local areas and supporting causes around the world. Inspiring the next generation Univar—a polymer ambassador Our Downers Grove headquarters hosted children of our In 2018 we have furthered our work around educating colleagues in celebration of Take Our Daughters And the next generation around plastics. Distrupol is proud Sons to Work® day. Beyond our global employee family to have enrolled with the BPF’s Polymer Ambassador engagement activities throughout the year, this event scheme. The Polymer Ambassador scheme is an focused on bringing Univar’s chemistry to life for the next initiative to give people from the polymer industry the generation and highlighted the range of opportunities opportunity to teach children and students about the through our industry. exciting world of polymers, engaging with them about the possibilities of science, engineering, and manufacturing. You Be The Chemist™ Chemistry for kids In 2018 we continued our support for the Chemical Univar in the Nordics is a member of IKEM, which Educational Foundation® You Be The Chemist™ organizes 1,400 chemical and plastic companies challenge. As a gold sponsor, Univar supports this operating in Sweden. Through many activities, IKEM program inspiring students and engaging educators to works to promote chemistry and its necessity for how build a better world through the science of chemistry. we live in today’s society and how we develop sustainable You Be The Chemist™ is building the future workforce solutions for the future. We supported the distribution by celebrating the role of science and chemistry in of 4,500 experiments to teachers, enabling 110,000 everyday learning and life igniting a passion for children to take part in fun and exciting experiments chemistry and science-related careers. across Sweden. 28 2018 Sustainability Report Fundraising events J.P. Morgan Corporate Challenge® In 2018, 30 of our colleagues ran the Chicago J.P. Morgan Corporate Challenge, the largest event of its kind on record. Through funds raised, our team was able to support Chicago Cares, a community cohesion organization promoting local volunteering opportunities and improving a city which many of our colleagues hold dear. Kenya school support Over the last five years, Univar has supported a school in Kenya, supplementing the school with educational resources and providing the children with materials needed to improve attendance and support their learning. The donations and collective effort of our employees has allowed the school to enroll more students, ensured female students can consistently attend education, and helped ensure all essential learning materials are made available to students who might otherwise not be able to attend formal education. Supporting disadvantaged communities, Brazil At our Osasco site, employees used their competitive edge to have a fundraising challenge in support of the local community. In celebration of the Brazilian annual event of Children’s Day, our teams collectively gathered and raised funds for over 3,000 toys, which were donated to children through six child poverty alleviation associations in the Osasco area. Responsible labor practices Our commitment to responsible labor practices—both and child labor are the minimum standards that we uphold across our operations and through our supply chain— across our business. Further detail on our employees’ is absolute. In doing so we continue to adhere to the collective bargaining and union membership can be found International Labour Organization’s Declaration on in our 2018 Annual Report. Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Through this we have greater confidence in the areas of labor In 2018 we have been encouraged to see that we are practices, which we determine to be material, while not alone in having confidence in our responsible labor signaling to our customers and suppliers what we practices. As covered on page 26 of this report, we have stand for in this area. These important commitments of been externally and independently recognized by ISS respecting the right to freedom of association, collective Oekom for industry-leading performance on social bargaining, and prohibiting all forms of modern slavery and ethical performance. Legal compliance Building and maintaining trust and strong relationships Furthermore, we were not in breach of and did not receive with our stakeholders is something to which we give any material penalties in relation to the sale of banned great value. Through 2018, we were not subject to any products, non-compliance with marketing and labeling substantiated complaints or incidences of corruption, regulations, product health and safety, or occupational bribery, anti-competitive behavior, data loss, or health and safety or environmental laws and regulations. privacy breaches. Significant penalties/fines are considered to be those in excess of $100,000. The right thing to do—beyond our goals 29 Nexeo Solutions’ approach to better business As we moved through the transformational combination of our two great companies and became Univar Solutions, it is important to also reflect on Nexeo Solutions’ sustainability program to date. Nexeo Solutions released its first global sustainability report in 2017, formalizing the wider agenda of corporate social responsibility and establishing sustainability goals. The material overleaf details each of Nexeo Solutions’ goals set out in 2017 and highlights progress through 2018. 30 2018 Sustainability Report Protecting our environment Target: Reducing Volatile Organic Compound (VOC) Nexeo Solutions has continued to realize the value of proactive energy and emissions management. Through emissions by a minimum of 4 tons. energy efficiency measures, environmental investments, and responsible service offerings, Nexeo Solutions has Progress against the global goal achieved significant energy use and emissions improveIn 2018 Nexeo Solutions operations continued their ments since baseline data was set in 2012. longstanding significant environmental infrastructure investments as part of efforts to reduce the impacts of As well as energy and emissions, Nexeo Solutions has operations. Through the installation of improved VOC continued to make significant advances in reducing the scrubbing systems, Nexeo Solutions has exceeded the environmental impacts of waste generated, through global goal set in 2017 of reducing VOC emission by both operations and customer facilities. more than four tonnes per year. Deliver a differentiated customer experience Target: Increase Net Promoter Score (NPS) from Since 2018 Nexeo Solutions has continued to deliver chemicals customers by two points compared services that allow customers to achieve their own sustainability goals around waste. Through waste to the previous year. management services, Nexeo Solutions has supported customers by identifying options to reduce waste and Progress against the global goal applying sorting and separation practices for customer Nexeo Solutions’ customer-tailored services are a key waste. This is done alongside partners to recycle, part of delivering a differentiated customer service. compost, recover, repurpose, or treat all types of waste. Over 450 employees help customers become more Over the last year, Nexeo Solutions teams have continued resource-efficient by providing a one-stop service for to support customers to reduce total waste quantities, all materials, supplied via Nexeo Solutions’ technologyand in some cases completely eliminated customer driven distribution and services network. waste to landfill; this is just another way Nexeo Solutions delivered extra value to customers. Upholding ethics and compliance Target: decision-making in all business activities. The GSBC Achieve compliance training completion defines the minimum standards of behavior expected of all employees in the company. for all covered employees. Additionally, Nexeo Solutions has continued to support Progress against the global goal ethical labor practices and legal compliance as a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact and Through 2018 Nexeo Solutions have continued to chamactions supporting the United Nations Sustainable pion already high standards held regarding business Development Goals (SDGs). Through efforts on upholding conduct and ethical practices. Beginning in 2017 ethics and compliance, Nexeo Solutions’ actions have Nexeo Solutions developed and implemented the helped support SDGs 5 and 10—Gender Equality and Global Standards of Business Conduct (GSBC) to define Reduced Inequalities, respectively. a set of standards that serve as an ethical compass for Nexeo Solutions’ approach to better business 31 Engaging employees Progress against the global goal Target: Employee engagement at Nexeo Solutions has remained Invest in employees through annual a key part of the company’s global sustainability strategy. Through all-employee training programs, skills develoment performance reviews, professional investments, and working closely with the communities development plans, and training. around their facilities, Nexeo Solutions has furthered their historic employee engagement, delivering value beyond the business. Working safely Progress against the global goal Target: 2018 was another proud year for the safety record of Aspirational goal of zero recordable injuries Nexeo Solutions. In the last year, the company’s TCIR rate remained to be industry leading at a rate of 0.53, and improve performance each year. Expand reflecting the hard work of Nexeo Solutions’ teams additional safety training to 100 percent of globally and the paramount importance of safety employees in North America. instilled throughout the organization. Through 2018 Nexeo Solutions continued to expand their employee safety observation program, promoting employee habits of keeping safe behaviors and safe conditions at the forefront of all employees’ thinking. Sourcing responsibly Progress against the global goal Target: A key part of Nexeo Solutions’ efforts in improving Secure supplier acknowledgement of the responsible sourcing is actioned through the globally applied supplier standards program. In 2018 Nexeo Nexeo Solutions Supplier Code of Conduct: Solutions has progressed on the journey of communicating the global Supplier Code of Conduct, 85 percent of top 80 percent of lbs. detailing aspects of expectations on suppliers around purchased from suppliers. ethics and responsible conduct, including upholding human rights, labor rights, anti-corruption, anti-bribery, 90 percent from indirect procurement and environmental stewardship. suppliers based on cost. Beyond the direct procurement of products sold, Nexeo Solutions has furthered work of building sustainable decisions into indirect procurement through resource efficient packaging and energy efficient infrastructure. 32 2018 Sustainability Report Sustainable procurement rating Target: Achieve a minimum EcoVadis score of 55 and their industry for overall sustainability performance. a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Silver Univar’s acquisition of Nexeo Solutions makes great rating status. sense for our businesses in terms of our shared vision, mission, values, and reach. In addition, the close Progress against the global goal complimentary alignment of our approach to sustainable business makes a strong foundation on which we will Since initially reporting to EcoVadis in 2015, Nexeo build the sustainable future of Univar Solutions. Solutions has made significant improvements in this increasingly important sustainability assessment Nexeo Solutions has made great strides in its work to platform. In 2018 Nexeo Solutions was awarded 55/100, embed the values and practices of sustainable business resulting in a CSR Silver award being issued by EcoVadis into their culture. The similarities, synergies, and value and meeting Nexeo Solutions’ global target set in 2017. in our respective approaches to sustainable business, Not only is this a significant improvement for Nexeo outlined below, will be the basis for building our future Solutions, but also this independent assessment ranked the company within the top 18 percent of companies in as Univar Solutions. Univar Nexeo Solutions Our Home, Not just in what we do, Our Responsibility but how we do it Public Sustainability Report GRI framework based reporting Global sustainability goals Materiality-based CSR agenda EcoVadis participation Commitment to sustainable solutions Focus on sustainable operational excellence Ultimate goal to improve lives through sustainable business By bringing the best of the best together through this Through 2019 we are bringing the best of our respective acquisition, we are leveraging our position to become approaches to doing business sustainably together and sustainability leaders in our industry, focused on collabbringing to a close our independent programs. Overleaf oration and knowledge sharing. This integration heralds we set out the ambitious new vision for sustainable an important step up in our collective efforts to achieve business at Univar Solutions. the sustainability goals we have set to 2021. Nexeo Solutions’ approach to better business 33 Our sustainable future— Univar Solutions By combining the experience and resources of Univar and Nexeo Solutions, the new Univar Solutions is uniquely positioned to drive growth and deliver significant value for shareholders, customers, suppliers, and employees. This is reflected in our renewed vision, mission, and set of cultural values below. A new age of sustainable business for Univar Solutions We are a purpose driven, values based company and we are building on our existing commitments to embed sustainable Vision practice into our business. As Univar Solutions, we are setting To redefine distribution and be the out a new and enhanced focus on sustainable business across most valued chemical and ingredient our operations globally and in collaboration with our supply distributor on the planet. chains. Through this we are committed to becoming leaders in embedded organizational sustainability where the economic, environmental, and social aspects of everything we do influence Mission our decision-making. Streamline. Innovate. Grow. Our vision, mission, and cultural values as Univar Solutions— combined with our teams’ expertise and our unique industry Cultural values position—put us on track to change the face of responsible chemical ingredient distribution. We will continue to create value Serious about safety beyond our business, delivering material benefits to our customers, Where people matter suppliers, shareholders, employees, and the communities in which Valuable to others we operate. The collaborative efforts with these stakeholders will We do what we say play a key part of our sustainability agenda moving forward and Together we win help us deliver our aim to be the most valued chemical ingredient distributor on the planet. Holding ourselves accountable— Univar Solutions’ sustainability goals While our business undergoes the greatest transforworking toward our 2021 global sustainability goals. mation in our history, we are not leaving our existing In addition and as illustrated overleaf, we are taking commitments behind. The closely aligned approach another positive step to enhance what we want to taken by both Univar and Nexeo Solutions on sustainachieve through our goal on Resource Use. Under this able business and our near parallel material aspects goal we are developing our focus away from simply mean that our goals remain relevant and ambitious to using less and instead toward building the principles Univar Solutions. As we move forward in our journey of the circular economy into our operations and into toward more sustainable business, we will continue our supply chains. to update the specific targets, but remain steadfast in 34 2018 Sustainability Report A DVA N C I N G CIR CULAR E CO NO M Y E M B LE M O PTIO NS The Advancing a Circular Economy R esponsible man pictorial to the ufa n ctu right defines the sig re de le characteristics -c yc of Resource use, Life as listed in the goals below. tion Material istribu extraction art d Sm Residual waste recover le & cyc Re As a result of se u this proactive and Re co od u ct nd Pr ambitious refocus, itio nin g an d reuse we present Univar Solutions’ goals for 2021. Energy & Resource Emissions Use Minimize our environmental Embed the principles of impact by reducing energy advancing a circular economy usage and associated emissions. into our practices globally. Responsible Handling Safety Protect our people, communities, Continuously improve our The goals for 2021 form the and environment by leading a proud safety record, protecting “Zero Release” culture to minimize our workforce and demonstrating center of our journey toward major releases. we are serious about safety. a more sustainable future as Univar Solutions. However, we cannot achieve our global goals alone. Our vision for a more Sustainable Equality & sustainable business is a one in Supply Chain Diversity which all stakeholders join our Lead on transparency in the supply Demonstrate our commitment efforts and realize the shared chain as we responsibly manage to providing equal opportunities and influence the environmental to all employees, through training, value together; after all it is and social impacts of our suppliers. education, and reporting. Our Home, Our Responsibility. Our sustainable future—Univar Solutions 35 Behind the report Significant reporting changes The year ending December 31, 2018, has been an exciting one for Univar. Market expansion and acquisition forms one of the five pillars of our global strategic plan. In the 2018 calendar year, Univar identified the opportunity to strengthen our end-market capabilities and reinforce our product and service portfolio through the acquisition of two companies in EMEA—Kemetyl Industrial Chemicals and Earthoil Plantations Limited. With the exception of the above, there were no further material changes to operational locations, the company’s capital structure, Univar’s global supply chain structure, reporting periods, material topics, or their boundaries. 36 2018 Sustainability Report Material restatements Material restatements have been made to historic data Minor restatements have also been made to global relating to energy, emissions, waste, and water in this release metrics and TCIR figures to retrospectively reflect report compared with those results published in the effect of acquisitions and to include events relating Univar’s 2017 Sustainability Report. In part this is due to the calendar year, which were concluded following the to recalculations reflecting significant changes due to publication of the reports and those from acquisitions. acquisitions by Univar in 2016 and 2017, which were not previously accounted for. Further retrospective As well as the revisions above, we have revised the revisions of information, which have become available primary units of measurement in the intensity metrics of since previous reports, also contributed to the updated our Energy & Emissions and Resource Use sustainability figures in these recalculations. All recalculations of goals. The denominator units used have been changed emissions have been carried out in line with the GHG from “per metric ton merchanted” to “per million USD in Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, sales.” These revisions help us to more accurately reflect the principles of which have been applied to nonour performance based on the activities of our business emissions-specific metrics. as Univar Solutions. Emissions methodologies We continue to align our emissions data collection emissions are collected in select regions. Moving methodology with the GHG Protocol’s Corporate forward, Univar Solutions will further identify reliable, Accounting and Reporting Standard alongside the GHG accurate Scope 3 emissions data across our regions with Protocol Technical Guidance. Data has been collated the longer term intent of disclosing appropriate category for all operational sites and significant offices for the Scope 3 emissions. As we continue to make progress 2018 calendar year using the 2018 UK Government toward our global sustainability goals, our fixed 2016 GHG factors for all conversions with the exception of baseline for all sustainability metrics reported in this non-UK electricity, which was calculated using 2015 document remains the data set against which UK Government GHG factors, the latest versions subsequent data is compared. available. All emissions figures featured in this report relate to our Scope 1 (direct) and Scope 2 (indirect) Using guidance from the GHG Protocol Corporate emissions only. Where appropriate, we have made Accounting and Reporting Standard, Univar has informed estimations for a small number of sites. All included data from all operations deemed to be emissions data in this report relating to previous years under Univar’s operational control. This excludes were calculated using the corresponding year’s UK third-party warehouses and third-party operated Government GHG factors with the exception of non-UK transportation. In instances where accessing the electricity, which, like 2018, is calculated using the most data for some of our smaller rented offices has recent 2015 UK Government GHG factors. proved disproportionately difficult to obtain, we have chosen to estimate energy, waste, and water At present, we do not publically report our Scope 3 data, applying informed estimation methods. emissions, although a limited range of these GRI Content Index This report has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core Option and submitted to the GRI report registration system, notifying the GRI of this claim. Details of any omissions of individual GRI Standards, or parts thereof, are provided in the GRI Content Index with explanation. Currently, neither this report nor the data within it have been externally verified. Univar Solutions’ GRI Content Index can be found in our separate GRI Content Index document. Behind the report 37 © 2019 Univar Inc. All rights reserved. Univar, the collaboration insignia, and other identified trademarks are the property of Univar Inc. or affiliated companies. All other trademarks not owned by Univar Inc. or affiliated companies that appear in this material are the property of their respective owners.
