COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS GLOBAL COMPACT GENERAL INFO Participant Orakel Published May 2019 Time period May 2018 – April 2019 Format Stand alone document – Basic COP Template for Global Compact Active Level STATEMENT OF CONTINU ED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Statement of the company’s chief executive (CEO or equivalent) expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing the company’s ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Orakel reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Dirk Spooren Managing Director Date: 10/05/2019 1|P a g e HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS Orakel’s goal is to raise awareness about human rights principles by organising in-company initiatives related to human rights issues. Furthermore, we want to take these principles into account throughout all our processes and business ethics. IMPLEMENTATION ✓ Orakel raises awareness on Fairtrade and hosts a yearly fair trade breakfast for its employees. Upon arrival, they can all join in on a breakfast with fair trade products and receive information about the principles and importance of fair trade. In 2016 we obtained the Faitrade@work label from Fairtrade Belgium and chose to exclusively use fairtrade coffee, tea and sugar in the company. ✓ Through the Foster Parents Plan (www.planbelgie.be) Orakel continues its support to childfocused community development in third world countries. ✓ Orakel commits itself to strict ethical principles during the production process. Eco-tokens can be made from a variety of organic raw materials, but Orakel chooses to manufacture them strictly from organic waste products like potato peels, rather than taking products away from the food chain. ✓ Orakel actively engages in volunteership. We lead the local business site meetings, a network of 15 companies and stimulate CSR actions among the group, such as the yearly symbolical activity in April to gather waste alongside the roads of the business site. And we strive every 2 years to engage a team of employees to help out at the local Special Olympics. ✓ We actively promote initiatives of our employees to raise money for charity goals. ✓ We promote among our employees to donate blood to the local blood donation centre, by teaming up for a carpool to the location during working hours. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES ✓ We obtained the Fairtrade@work label in 2016 and since then exclusively use 100% fairtrade coffee in our company, tea and sugar. We held our annual faitrade breakfase on 04/10/2019. ✓ We continue to support José, a child in Ecuador through the Foster Parents Plan for an amount of 25 euro per month. ✓ In December 2018 we raised money for Feestvarken vzw, a local organisation that helps families in poverty to provides the necessities to celebrate the birthday of their children at home and in the classroom. Every year our employees choose a charity goal during De Warmste Week, a big charity event organized by a Flemish radio station. It is launched by employees and supported by the company while raising awareness for the cause. ✓ We organized our yearly carpool to the local blood donation centre in April 2019. 2|P a g e LABOUR PRINCIPLES ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS Orakel supports the UN Global Compact principles regarding labour rights and applies these principles within the company. Orakel cares for the well-being of its employees and actively engages in initiatives to constantly improve the employee’s personal health, safety and well-being within the company and beyond, as well as the general atmosphere within the company. IMPLEMENTATION ✓ Orakel perceives diversity as an asset and has an equal opportunities policy which prevents discrimination of all kinds and ensures comparable pay for comparable work. On all our vacancies we publish our equal opportunities approach: Orakel is an equal opportunities employer. As such, we want to reflect our diversity values in our recruitment procedures as well as our work ethics. We are committed to a policy of equal opportunities for all. ✓ We ensure we include people into our selection process who do not have the technical skills yet or do not speak our language fluently yet and invest thoroughly in training on the workplace. ✓ Orakel continuously works on prevention and more safety at the work place while creating awareness on these topics. In 2016 we started with a quarterly safety meeting in which coworkers of every team are represented and bring ideas in. We take measures such as first aid courses at work, installing an AED (Automatic External Defibrillator) at the front entrance, safety meetings and frequent safety messages on the intranet. We continuously work to ensure safety at the workplace. ✓ Orakel provides fresh seasonal fruit or fresh soup to its employees on a regular basis. ✓ We promote sport at work by launching weekly walks during lunch time or 7-minute workouts at the workplace. ✓ Orakel has installed ergonomical office furniture at which you can switch to a stand desk and keeps its employees informed about the optimal way of executing tasks to avoid injury. Furthermore we have invested in professional lifting equipment in our production to avoid injuries. ✓ Orakel yearly organizes a massage@work initiative. ✓ We continue to monitor closely that we implement the appropriate social protection systems and measures for our staff both in the head office and all other countries where we have local staff. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES ✓ The equal opportunities policy has led to a high degree of diversity within our organization. Out of 43 we employ 30 women and 13 men, 4 out of 6 board members are women, 6 employees are of non-Belgian origin, 4 employees have a labour disability. ✓ In 2017 we organized 4 safety meetings and we held our first meeting of 2019 in April. During the year we implemented many safety measures that came up during the meetings such as ✓ We held our yearly fire evacuation training on 11/03/2019 and the evaluation was very positive. ✓ Every year we invest in safety trainings 12 of our employees took part in the yearly first aid update in January 2019 and 3 employees took part in a longer course to join the first aid team at the workplace. 3|P a g e ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCI PLES ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS We are committed to the environment and sustainability is our trademark. We are constantly challenging ourselves to produce safe, eco-friendly and sustainable products. We are closely monitoring the energy we use and the waste we generate. We frequently educate our employees with regard to environmental issues. IMPLEMENTATION ✓ In April 2016 we obtained an ISO 14001 certificate, which implicates we are continuously working within the requirements of environmental law and pro-actively working on reducing waste and protecting the environment with follow-up on Key Performance Indicators. We are audited 2 times a year by an external auditing agency to follow up that we remain on track and every 3 years we have a full re-audit. ✓ We create awareness among our employees on energy use by organizing yearly activities such as Warm sweater day where we decrease our heating, Earth hour on which we don’t switch on lights in the office building and a yearly check-up for cold inflation pressure of our employees’ vehicles, since optimal tire pressure greatly increases fuel economy and reduces emissions. ✓ One thing we cannot avoid is sending packages. To compensate for these carbon emissions, we continue to send with UPS Carbon Neutral. We pay a bit more per package and thereby support various projects, e.g. about reforestation. ✓ In May 2014 we finished our ecological garden in cooperation with the Province of Antwerp, a lovely haven of peace where our employees can have their lunch at noon on a sunny day. ✓ We are switching to energy efficient lighting, cooling and heating throughout the facilities. ✓ We continuously monitor the use of energy of our production units and our office unit. Several energy meters have been added in 2016 and the dashboard system is helping us to monitor and adjust where energy savings can be made. ✓ We have implemented the use of a paperless office, printing as little documents as possible and also encouraging others to do so by adding a reference (be green, keep it on the screen) to our email signature. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES ✓ We obtained our ISO 14001 certification in April 2016 and went through a full re-audit in March 2019 with success. ✓ In cooperation with the Thomas More high school we have installed an energy dashboard system in 2017, an online app which allows us to monitor the energy use of our production and office units. We have continued to follow-up on our energy users and this has enabled us to detect problems, invest in energy saving actions and follow up the decrease of energy use (in relation to our increased production). ✓ In March 2019 we have started a second new building project for a larger production, warehouse and shipment area to professionalise our business processes. In this project we take pride in foreseeing all the necessary measures to increase energy efficiency and reduction of waste, such as LED lighting, instalment of sensors to measure energy use in order to increase our efficiency. Furthermore we have decided to go for a system of heat exchanging to naturally cool the building in summer and warming it during winter time. 4|P a g e ANTI-CORRUPTION ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS Orakel supports the United Nations Global Compact principles on anti-corruption. We work diligently to prevent corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. IMPLEMENTATION ✓ Our policies on corruption are part of our employee book and the introductory brochure for new employees. It also clearly indicates the counselor to whom employees can go to in the case of guideline violation. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES ✓ So far, there has not been any incident regarding corruption reported to the counselor. ✓ Since 2016 our introduction procedure is also given to trainees and holiday workers, including the explanation of our view on trust and working diligently. All of our employees, trainees, holiday workers, external partners sign an agreement to work by the same ethical standards. We made an update of all introduction brochures in February 2019 and revised our introduction procedure to make sure new co-workers receive all the necessary information and training. ✓ In March 2017 we have installed an automatic system to pay back clients that payed too much by accident, to symbolize our policy on business ethics. 5|P a g e
