COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 The beginning of our journey The FAO declared 2016 the International Year of Pulses. In fact, although we have been eating them for five thousand years, their time to shine has come now. We live in a world in which there are always more things to unite us than divide us. From our point of view, pulses represent this change perfectly. Affordable yet precious, they offer a delicious way to satisfy our hunger, and many people believe that they are the food of the future. To all those people we would like to say: welcome to our world Since its foundation in 2015, ILTA Alimentare S.p.A. has embedded many sustainability and social responsibility standards in its culture both at corporate strategy and at operational level. Our Commitment focuses on environmental and educational aspects, in a process of mindset change and operational improvement spreading across all departments with a multi-stakeholder benefit approach. Our Business Ethics Vision is merged in our Core Values, we shape our behaviour respecting our vision and we take action reflecting our culture. This report has been written taking consideration of the Ten Principles of the Global Compact by UN, the UN SDGs, and the Global Reporting Initiative Standards. – REPORT INDEX CEO Statement 2 Our values 3 Human Rights 4 Labour Rights 5 Environment 6 Anti-Corruption 7 Customers 8 Community 9 CEO STATEMENT “ILTA Alimentare S.p.A. supports the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this our first annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations.” Yours sincerely, Theodore Margellos CEO 2 OUR VALUES TRANSPARENCY QUALITY Through ILTA Alimentare S.p.A. , we carefully select We ensure that constant microbiological checks which producers to work with and we always state are performed at each stage of the supply chain, the origin of our products. from cultivation to packaging. SAFEGUARDING BIODIVERSITY SUSTAINABILITY We encourage a culture that recognises the value of the product's uniqueness by its very origin. We invest in crops We believe that pulses are the foundation for a fairer and grown in Italy and across the world to ensure a diverse offering with many 3 more equitable food culture. The International Year of Pulses has been an opportunity to start a real change. varieties to choose from. HUMAN RIGHTS We aim at sensitise our employees and partners on a wide set of social responsibility issues. The respect of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights principles is stated in the company Code of Conduct and intrinsically embedded in our Culture. Protection of Human Rights and Dignity of the Human Being Any intruding, offensive and persistent behavior deliberately referred to sexual, political, racial, religious or social condition, with the consequence of determining a situation of inconvenience to the person, is forbidden and condemned. Supply Chain Monitoring A zero-tolerance approach applies to all cases of non-compliance to the international standards for human rights and labour rights. We will start a process of upstream supply chain sustainability mapping through a Glocal approach to monitor the following key issues: human and labour rights, public health risks, impact on human health and safety, impacts on environmental protection and sustainable use of natural resources. 4 LABOUR RIGHTS LA ENVIRONMENT ILTA Alimentare adheres and recognizes as fundamental, in compliance with the national regulation, the ILO Conventions for rights at work: freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining; the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour; the effective abolition of child labour; the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Diversity Management Diversity within our work environment whether it is gender diversity, sexual orientation, ethnic origins, culture or physical skills is important for us. All the workers need to feel free to express their selves and work in an inclusive environment, this vision helps us to unlock every person’s hidden talent and let their point of view contribute to the organization. Hygiene, Accident Prevention, Health Protection Hygiene, health protection and accident prevention are of great importance for workers and the company. We regularly assess labour related risks with external audits and take action to address risk factors and adopt all the necessary prevention measures in compliance with the national regulation. Training and Work Safety ILTA Alimentare ensures constant safety and professional training, fostering a safe, diverse, inclusive and growth-focused workplace. Total time invested in training sessions: 450 hours. Staff Training and Development Our company systematically invests in human capital in order to enable the professional growth of its HR. The management assigns employees a 5 personalized training in relation to their job profile and career plan. ENVIRONMENT We address environmental challenges by taking initiative to raise environmental responsibility, encouraging the adoption of eco-friendly solutions and investing in biodiversity and organic crops. Safeguarding Biodiversity We source our product and invest in crops grown in Italy and across the world to ensure a diverse offering with a wide variety choice. Since 2017, we developed the AMÍO Italian Organic Supply Chain, a long-term relationship project involving more than 20 Italian commercial farms, promoting local varieties from different regions. Investing in Organic Crops Our commitment to safeguard biodiversity will experience a strong tendency towards organic crops and sustaining local producers. We will promote the organic farming signing new long-term contracts with local and small farmers already producing organic pulses or supporting those converting to this agricultural system. Certified Energy Efficiency Our HQ is located in a TÜV SÜD Standard CMS 83 Generation EE certified building powered by 100% renewable energy. The energy is supplied by: Hydroelectric power plant (226,56MW flowing water power); Photovoltaic system integrated in the building. Action on Plastics is a Priority We stimulate all employees to avoid disposable plastic while encouraging the use of water and food refillable containers. Packaging is the real challenge: we implemented a new AMÍO branded product with recyclable packaging: a multi-layer mono-material film with modified atmosphere barrier and 30% plastic reduction with respect to the previous lines. We are currently researching on new packaging solutions to extend our plastic reduction policy and full recyclability goal to all product lines. Our R&D is also undertaking a scouting process to find new packaging solutions to reduce plastic or to substitute it with alternative green materials. 6 ANTI-CORRUPTION ILTA Alimentare recognizes the importance of the UN Convention Against Corruption, acting in compliance with the national regulation and applying a zero‐tolerance approach for corruption, bribery and extortion. Code of Conduct As reported in our Code of Conduct, every worker must act maintaining fidelity and fair behaviour towards the firm with absolute prohibition of dealing any business that may represent a prejudice to the company. External Audit Every year, in compliance with the national law, an external audit verifies that the annual accounts provided represent a true, lawful and fair picture of the organisation’s finances and operations. 7 CUSTOMERS Transparency & Full Traceability Our retail branded product AMÍO always shows the provenance of the pulses. In particular, our Organic AMÍO line developed thanks to the AMÍO Italian Organic Supply Chain, ensures full traceability to the field with the signature of the farmer and a tracking code to uncover complete information about the producer, the name and address of the commercial farm, sowing and harvest time. Nutrition and Healty Lifestyle Promotion We developed a pulse and grains mix range in cooperation with a research project on nutrition that applies scientific knowledge to healthy eating. Thanks to this contribution, the new AMÍO range provide most of the nutrients that are essential for the diet: each mix is a balanced combination of carbohydrates and proteins, which is the basis for the Healthy Plate, a complete and wholesome meal with all the essential amino acids. Food Safety We approve suppliers who can grant GMO free, traceability, growing techniques in compliance with standing food regulations. Our Quality Department controls all the production flow, from raw material arrival, through cleaning, sorting and packaging process controls, to batch realizing before dispatching: the strict analysis plan includes microbiological presence, aflatoxins, pesticides and heavy metals tests. Consumer Education We will educate the consumers to understand the importance of the information written on the packaging. Transparent indications about the product origin represent our key value. Moreover, our goal is to educate buyers and consumers to the world of pulses. 8 COMMUNITY University Support AMÍO organic Sarah Chickpeas are a unique variety grown only in Sicily, entirely developed by the Department of Agricultural Sciences, Food and Forestry of the University of Palermo with the support of the A. and S. Lima Mancuso Foundation. Amío supports the University for agricultural promotion, training and research. Local Community Support We will implement a food waste management program involving local food distribution non-profits. 9 Our Business Ethics Vision shapes our behaviour, everyday.
