Mitsubishi Electric Group CSRレポー CSR Report 2018 ト 2018 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Contents ■ Contents ／ About the Report ............................................... 1 ■ Governance ............................................................................................ 44 Corporate Governance ................................................................. 44 ■ About Mitsubishi Electric .......................................................... 2 Compliance ............................................................................................. 48 Embodiment of the Corporate Mission ............................... 2 Risk Management .............................................................................. 55 Mitsubishi Electric's Business Segments ............................. 3 Research and Development ...................................................... 62 Global Operations/Corporate Data/ ................................... 5 Protection of Intellectual Property Rights ...................... 63 Financial Results Responsibility to Shareholders & Investors .................. 65 ■ President's Message ........................................................................ 7 ■ Environment ........................................................................................... 66 ■ CSR at Mitsubishi Electric ......................................................... 9 ■ Social ............................................................................................................... 80 CSR Management .................................................................................. 9 Responsibility to Customers ...................................................... 80 CSR Materiality ................................................................................... 27 Human Rights ......................................................................................... 92 Communication with Stakeholders ...................................... 35 Labor Practices ..................................................................................... 95 Supply Chain Management .................................................... 112 Philanthropic Activities ............................................................... 120 About the Report This report provides information about corporate social References responsibility (CSR) initiatives by the Mitsubishi Electric • ISO26000 Group to help realize a sustainable society. It primarily • GRI Standards, Global Reporting Initiative reports on significant activities, events, and changes that • Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2012), Ministry of occurred in fiscal 2018 (year ending March 31, 2018). the Environment Based on the PDCA (plan-do-check-act) approach, • Business Owner Environmental Performance Indicator in reporting our activities we tried to go beyond just Guideline (2002), Ministry of the Environment presenting our principles and the results of activities to • Environmental Accounting Guidelines (2005), Ministry of date in order to also refer to future policies and issues. the Environment We endeavor to fulfill our responsibility of presenting information to the public in order to broaden our range of Reporting Medium communication with stakeholders. We appreciate any and Non-financial information about the Mitsubishi Electric all frank and honest feedback intended to further improve Group is disclosed in the section of the CSR website the report. and“CSR Report” , and environmental information is introduced in detail in the environment section of the Structure of the Report website and“Environmental Performance Review.”The Aiming to fulfill our responsibility of presenting information “CSR Report”is available on our website together to the public, the report discloses information on our with the“CSR Report Highlights Edition”aimed at CSR management initiatives and other activities from the communicating with stakeholders. aspects of governance, the environment, and society. Regarding Future Projections, Plans, Period Covered by the Report April 1, 2017 – March 31, 2018 and Targets This report contains not only statements of past and * Also includes some information on policies, targets, and plans for fiscal 2019 and thereafter. present facts related to Mitsubishi Electric Corporation and its affiliates (Mitsubishi Electric Group), but also future Scope of the Report projections, plans, targets, and other forward-looking Social Aspects :  statements. Such projections, plans, and targets constitute Primarily covers activities of Mitsubishi Electric suppositions or judgments based on information available Corporation as of the time they are stated. Future business activities *The range of data compiled is noted individually. and conditions may differ from projections, plans, and Environmental Aspects :  targets due to changes in various external factors. Covers the activities of Mitsubishi Electric Corporation, The Mitsubishi Electric Group conducts business in 107 domestic affiliates, and 84 overseas affiliates (total of the form of development, manufacturing, and sales in a 192 companies). broad range of areas, and these activities take place both *Detailed information on economic performance is provided in in Japan and overseas. Therefore, the group's financial the Environment section of our website. standing and business performance may be affected by a Economic Aspects :  variety of factors, including trends in the global economy, Primarily covers performance of Mitsubishi Electric social conditions, laws, tax codes, litigation, and other Corporation, consolidated subsidiaries, and equity method legal procedures. We would ask stakeholders to keep affiliates these points in mind when reviewing this report. *Detailed information on economic performance is provided in the Investors section of our website. 1 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Embodiment Embodiment of the ofCorporatethe Corporate Mission Mission The Mitsubishi Electric Group has positioned Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) as a pillar of its corporate management, based on its Corporate Mission and Seven Guiding Principles. Accordingly, the Group has made committed eﬀorts to become a corporation whose eﬀorts are appreciated through its initiative toward solving social issues. Or in other words, a corporation that is trusted by its stakeholders, including its society, customers, shareholders, and employees as a whole, and that earns their satisfaction through its business practices. The Group has taken on the challenge of resolving environmental issues, resource and energy issues, and other social issues all of us face today on a global scale through its products, systems and services. In doing so, it aims to be recognized as a Global, Leading Green Company contributing to the realization of a prosperous society that simultaneously achieves sustainability and safety, security and comfort. In these ways, the Mitsubishi Electric Group pursues the sustainable development of the entire Group. Corporate Mission The Mitsubishi Electric Group will continually improve its technologies and services by applying creativity to all aspects of its business. By doing so, we enhance the quality of life in our society. Embodiment of the Corporate Mission Global, Leading Green Company Contribute to the realization of a prosperous society that simultaneously achieves sustainability and safety, security and comfort Growth Targets to be Achieved by FY2021 Net Sales 5 trillion JPY or more OPM 8% or more Initiatives to Create Value Provide Products, Systems, and Services Globally Make Strong Technology Synergies/ Businesses Stronger Business Synergies Contemporary Challenges in Society Environmental issues Resource/ Energy issues 2 Mitsubishi Mitsubishi Electric's Electric's Business Business SegmentsSegments Building Systems Contributing to giving added value to buildings by integrating elevators, escalators and other diverse building facilities Throughout our more than 80-year history, we have supplied elevators and escalators to customers in more than 90 countries. Today, over a million Mitsubishi Electric elevators and escalators are in operation throughout the world. We also contribute to realizing comfortable, eﬃcient and energy-saving buildings with total building solutions that combine building management systems that manage and control building facilities, security systems such as access control, and various building facilities such as elevators, escalators, air conditioners and lighting ﬁxtures. Main ■ Elevators ■ Escalators ■ Building management systems products ■ Building security systems Factory Automation Systems Underpinning manufacturing in the world as a leading FA supplier We are one of the major FA suppliers in the world underpinning manufacturing by developing and providing a wide range of FA products including PLCs and laser processing machines. We propose e-F@ctory which oﬀer solutions to reduce total cost of development, production, and maintenance and to support advanced manufacturing by utilizing FA technologies and IT technologies. Main ■ Programmable Logic Controllers(PLCs) ■ Circuit breakers ■ Servo systems products ■ Industrial robots ■ Laser processing machines ■ Energy-saving support systems Public Systems Supporting a better tomorrow with cutting edge technologies at work in our everyday life Our solutions cover a number of ﬁelds that underpin our everyday life, including advanced social infrastructure and public facilities and services. We enhance quality of living by creating solutions that are truly needed by society ̶ everything from water environment systems, to solutions for making society safer and more secure, to providing video entertainment. Main ■ Water treatment technologies ■ Aircraft management systems products ■ Large screen video systems ■ Disaster information systems Energy Systems Building power infrastructure across the entire energy value chain as one of Japan's foremost suppliers Energy systems represent a core strength that we have engaged in since our founding. We have contributed greatly to the development of power infrastructure around the world in all phases of the energy value chain, from generation and transmission to distribution. As demand grows for clean energy, we are actively developing new energy businesses related to smart grids and other ﬁelds. ■ Turbine generators ■ Protection and control systems ■ Vacuum breakers Main ■ Transformers ■ Substation systems ■ Grid stabilization systems ■ Switchgears products ■ Photovoltaic systems ■ Power conversion systems ■ Superconductor-applied products Transportation Systems A leader in railway solutions providing a full range of equipment and systems for rolling stock We developed an unrivaled level of technical prowess from our involvement in the development of rolling stock and on ground systems for all of Japan's Shinkansen since it began service back in 1964. We are also utilizing our expertise in power and communications across various ﬁelds to improve energy eﬃciency. Our products have already been adopted by more than 30 countries around the world. Our goal is to support comfortable rail services in Japan and abroad that are both safe and energy eﬃcient. ■ Propulsion systems ■ Air conditioning systems for rolling stock Main ■ Rolling stock information management systems ■ Electricity control systems products ■ Train vision ■ Transportation planning and control systems Automotive Equipment Contributing to the advancements in motorization with a broad lineup of products We were the ﬁrst in the world to produce an electric power steering system and today many of our products hold a leading market share globally, enabling us to support the creation of safer, more secure, and more comfortable cars. We are helping make safer, more secure cars, by reﬂecting the various needs of the automobile society to automotive equipments, such as electric vehicles, hybrid electric vehicles, or automated cars. ■ Charging & Starting products ■ Electric power steering system products Main ■ Engine management products ■ Car multimedia products ■ Electriﬁcation components products ■ ADAS products 3 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Space Systems Cutting edge technologies at work across the vast business ﬁelds in the space industry We have participated in the development of more than 500 satellites in various countries around the world. We are able to conduct all aspects of satellite development in-house, including design, production, and testing using our test facilities that can reproduce the environment in space. We are also a world leader in large telescopes, too, having been involved with the Subaru Telescope in Hawaii and the ALMA Telescope in Chile. Main ■ Satellites ■ Large telescopes ■ Onboard satellite equipment products Information & Communication Systems Making communications easier and more convenient with technologies that send information We supply products for optical broadband services that enable high speed transfers of content-rich data, such as HD videos, over the Internet using existing communications infrastructure. Through this business line, we are helping to make society a better place with an assortment of solutions, including video surveillance systems that make society safer and more secure as well as communication systems for smart grids that optimize energy usage. Main ■ Optical communication systems ■ Wireless communication systems products ■ Video surveillance systems Semiconductors & Devices Providing key devices underpinning a more aﬄuent society, harnessing cutting edge technologies We supply semiconductors and devices that make our lives more aﬄuent as key devices in equipment used in a wide range of ﬁelds, from home electronics to space. In particular, power semiconductors are used in a truly wide range of ﬁelds, including home products, industrial equipment, electric vehicles, power control systems for traction, motor control systems, wind turbines, and photovoltaic systems. The performance of our products helps to lower energy usage in each of these ﬁelds, too. Main ■ Power modules ■ Optical devices ■ High frequency devices ■ TFT-LCD modules products Air Conditioning Systems Providing comfortable and energy-eﬃcient air conditioning for industry and in our everyday life We provide a broad range of highly energy-eﬃcient air conditioning systems, from the Kirigamine brand of room air conditioners to air conditioner systems for buildings and industry. At the same time, we also supply a number of low-temperature systems, from distribution to industry, including cool warehouses and cold storage as well as ice makers for food processing plants and ice skating rinks. Main ■ Room air conditioners ■ Commercial air conditioners products ■ Low-temperature systems, water heaters, and industrial cooling and heating systems Home Products Making the lives of our customers more comfortable We supply an assortment of home electronics for the kitchen, living room, bedroom, and other locations. We will continue to make the lives of customers more comfortable by supplying products that meet and exceed customer expectations. Main ■ LCD TVs ■ Refrigerators and freezers ■ Vacuum cleaners ■ Jar rice cookers products IT Solutions Providing IT solutions to make all aspects of our life more convenient, comfortable, and advanced We deliver security technologies including encryption, IoT technologies, and cloud computing platforms to ﬁnancial institutions, manufacturing plants, social infrastructure (transportation providers, airlines, airports, the power industry), developers, and others. In the process, our IT solutions underpin a more aﬄuent life and society for all. Main ■ Automated radar terminal systems ■ Flight information systems products ■ Large-scale network systems ■ Large-scale security systems 4 Global Operations Global Operations Europe ¥431.3 billion Asia Net Sales % of total Net Sales 9.7% Japan Aﬃliated Companies 26 approx. 7,300 Number of Employees Net Sales ¥1,075.6 billion Net Sales ¥2,423.6billion % of total Net Sales 24.3% % of total Net Sales 54.7% Aﬃliated Companies 69 Aﬃliated Companies 94 approx. 36,100 approx. 89,900 Number of Employees Number of Employees Corporate Data （As of March 31, 2018） Mitsubishi Electric Corporation Tokyo Building, 2-7-3, Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8310, Japan President & CEO : Takeshi Sugiyama (assumed position on April 1, 2018) Phone : +81 (3) 3218-2111 Established : January 15, 1921 Paid-in Capital : ¥175,820 million Shares Issued : 2,147,201,551 shares Consolidated Net Sales : ¥4,431,198 million Consolidated Total Assets : ¥4,264,559 million Employees : 142,340 5 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric * Other North Net Sales ¥83.1billion America % of total Net Sales 1.9% Aﬃliated Companies 3 approx. 2,800 Number of Employees * Oceania, Central and South America, and Africa Net Sales ¥417.4billion % of total Net Sales 9.4% Aﬃliated Companies 13 approx. 6,200 Number of Employees Financial Results Performance for the Year Ended March 31, 2018 Yen U.S. dollars (millions) (thousands) Years ended March 31 2018 2017 2016 2018 Net Sales Breakdown by Business Segment Net sales ¥4,431,198 ¥4,238,666 ¥4,394,353 $41,803,755 Operating income 318,637 270,104 301,172 3,006,009 Energy and Electric Net income attributable to Mitsubishi Electric Corp. 271,880 210,493 228,494 2,564,906 Others 14.9% Systems 24.2% Total assets 4,264,559 4,172,270 4,059,941 40,231,689 Net sales ¥764,346 million Net sales ¥1,241,952 million Interest-bearing debt 311,485 352,124 404,039 2,938,538 Mitsubishi Electric Corp. shareholders’ equity 2,259,355 2,039,627 1,838,773 21,314,670 Capital expenditure (Based on the recognized value of 181,513 175,542 177,801 1,712,387 property, plant and equipment) R&D expenditures 210,308 201,330 202,922 1,984,038 Yen U.S. dollars Home Per-Share Amounts Appliances 20.4% Industrial Net income attributable to Mitsubishi Electric Corp. Net sales Automation ¥126.70 ¥98.07 ¥106.43 ¥1,049,369 million Systems 28.1% Basic $1.195 Net sales Diluted — — — — ¥1,444,928 million Cash dividends declared 40 27 27 0.377 % Statistical Information Operating income ratio 7.2% 6.4% 6.9% — Return on equity (ROE) 12.6 10.9 12.4 — Interest-bearing debt to total assets 7.3 8.4 10.0 — Electronic Information and See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Devices 3.9% Communication 1 The Company prepares consolidated financial statements with procedures, accounting terms, forms, and preparation that are in conformity with accounting principles Net sales Systems 8.5% generally accepted in the United States of America based on the rules and regulations applicable in Japan. ¥202,294 million Net sales ¥436,068 million 2 From the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, the Company has adopted Accounting Standards Update 2015-17 “Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes” issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board. The consolidated balance sheet as of the previous fiscal year has been reclassified to reflect this adoption. 3 Operating income is presented as net sales less cost of sales, selling, general, administrative, and R&D expenses, and loss on impairment of long-lived assets. 4 Diluted net income per share attributable to Mitsubishi Electric Corp. is not included in the above figure as no dilutive securities existed. 5 U.S. dollar amounts are converted from yen at the rate of ¥106=U.S.$1, the approximate rate on the Tokyo Foreign Exchange Market on March 31, 2018. Note: Inter-segment sales are included in the amounts of the diagram above. 6 President's Message President's Message Aiming to Become a Global, Leading Green Company Working as a Group to pursue our Corporate Mission. Pursuing our Corporate Mission The Mitsubishi Electric Group places top priority on pursuing its Corporate Mission, which states that The Mitsubishi Electric Group will continually improve its technologies and services by applying creativity to all aspects of its business. By doing so, we enhance the quality of life in our society. Based on this policy, we strive to resolve environmental issues, resource and energy issues, and other contemporary social issues on a global scale by providing suitable products, systems and services. At the same time, we aim to be a global, leading green company that contributes to realizing an aﬄuent society that simultaneously achieves sustainability and safety, security and comfort. We also direct our eﬀorts to contribute to achieving the 17 SDGs* that are the world's common goals by creating new value toward resolving social issues and pursuing sustainable growth through all our corporate activities. The commitment to enhance the quality of life in our society, as stated in our Corporate Mission, I believe, is synonymous with realizing a sustainable society. This means our initiatives to achieve the SDGs correspond to the Group's Corporate Mission and are crucial. Mr. Sakuyama, our previous president, likened our ﬁnancial ﬁgures as the height and weight and our corporate social responsibility as the personality of our company, and noted the importance of being accepted by society based on these two aspects. No company can continue to exist without trust. In order to be recognized for our personality, we must promote greater awareness among our stakeholders about our initiatives to pursue our Corporate Mission. And upon doing so, we must earn trust by satisfying society, customers, shareholders and employees, as mentioned in our management policy. * The SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) are a plan of action adopted by the United Nations General Assembly in 2015 for people, the planet and prosperity towards 2030. Continuous initiatives to address the CSR materiality At the Mitsubishi Electric Group, we have set down four materiality in the area of CSR to give more concrete expression to our corporate philosophy, and in ﬁscal 2017 began eﬀorts to shift them into full swing. The ﬁrst materiality is to realize a sustainable society, and the second is to provide safety, security and comfort. Each of our businesses aims to oﬀer products and services that simultaneously deliver sustainability and safety, security and comfort, but we are also creating new value through technology synergies and business synergies. For example, combinations of diﬀering technologies and businesses, such as ZEB (net Zero-Energy Building) that ensure energy-saving throughout entire buildings, autonomous driving technologies that take advantage of the high-precision positioning information service provided by the quasi-zenith satellite, and smart factories that deliver dramatic improvements in productivity and quality through automation and IoT technologies, create new value that contributes to resolving social issues. The third materiality is to respect human rights and promote the active participation of diverse human resources. To address 7 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric international human rights issues, we established the Mitsubishi electronics manufacturer that aims to be a global, leading green Electric Group Human Rights Policy in September 2017, and from company, we can contribute signiﬁcantly to environmental issues the perspective of diversity, we are now employing an increasing and to the resource and energy sectors. In this light, we have number of non-Japanese nationals and women. Furthermore, to selected Goal 7 Aﬀordable and clean energy, Goal 11 Sustainable create an environment that promotes the active participation of all cities and communities, and Goal 13 Climate action as areas human resources and embraces diverse working styles, we have where we can create new value and that correspond to our vision launched work style reforms in ﬁscal 2017 as a Company-wide of becoming a global, leading green company . policy. The Group is endeavoring to improve both the tangible and In May 2018, the Mitsubishi Electric Group signed the UN intangible aspects of business from the four perspectives of Global Compact* to promote CSR activities based on international Improvement of productivity by streamlining operations, Further norms. Taking this as a new beginning, we intend to step up our pursuit of achievements and eﬃciency, Work-life fulﬁllment and eﬀorts to promote activities toward realizing a sustainable society Promotion of communication in the workplace. It is my hope that on a global scale. our employees achieve a good work-life balance and feel good Research and development are also an important part of the about working for the Mitsubishi Electric Group. Group s activities toward achieving sustainable growth, and eﬀorts The fourth materiality is to strengthen corporate governance are made with a focus on smart manufacturing, smart mobility, and compliance on a continuous basis. Strengthening corporate comfortable space, and infrastructure for safety, security and governance and enhancing its eﬀectiveness are prior issues at the relief as keywords for solving social issues and creating value. At Mitsubishi Electric Group. To improve our business supervisory the same time, with eyes on the future of society, we are pursuing functions, we continuously enhance the eﬀectiveness of the Board research of future technologies that are needed to achieve our vision. of Directors. For example, we have oﬀered various opportunities to * The UN Global Compact is an initiative launched by the United Nations to realize provide information and exchange views with outside directors, and sustainable growth. held reviews of the Board of Directors. Through these measures, we have acquired various opinions about our corporate responsibility Promoting further our Corporate Mission from outside directors based on their wealth of knowledge and experiences. By incorporating them into our management policy, Mitsubishi Electric will celebrate its 100th anniversary in ﬁscal 2021. we aim to corporate management that is supervised by a sound I wish to forge a mediumto long-term vision that also includes oversight mechanism. environmental initiatives and will serve as a roadmap showing how The Group regards compliance as the foundation of corporate the Mitsubishi Electric Group will contribute to realizing an aﬄuent management. Recent years have witnessed Japan experiencing a society. spate of compliance violations related to quality and other aspects For the Group to achieve continuous growth, all our employees of business, but one reason why these incidents have occurred is must gain a solid understanding of the concept and importance of because companies have prioritized reaping short-term proﬁts over CSR and the SDGs. I hope that each and every one of our fulﬁlling their social responsibilities. To prevent such incidents, each approximately 150,000 employees engages in their duties with the and every one of our employees need to be fully aware of our understanding that environmental issues, poverty and other such Corporate Mission, which calls for us to enhance the quality of life global-scale issues are matters that personally concern them. I also in our society, and to act with a conscious awareness not to hope they will continue to be the kind of individuals who are violate applicable laws or business ethics or practices. capable of contributing to society even outside their business duties by participating in philanthropic activities. Identifying which SDGs to prioritize The Mitsubishi Electric Group could become a corporate group that can better contribute to society if each employee thinks The Mitsubishi Electric Group has launched initiatives to address independently and executes the Group s Corporate Mission. By the SDGs in ﬁscal 2018. Moreover, the Keidanren has also revised striving to become a Global, Leading Green Company, we will make its Charter of Corporate Behavior to include a provision that seeks Group-wide eﬀorts to pursue sustainable growth and further full contribution to the SDGs to reﬂect growing social expectations. enhance our corporate value. Through the Group's diverse businesses and corporate activities related to the environment, society and governance, we believe we can make a contribution toward accomplishing the SDGs. However, to contribute further, we need to identify goals to which we are particularly well positioned to contribute. As a comprehensive Takeshi Sugiyama President & CEO 8 CSR CSR Management Management Principles of CSR The Mitsubishi Electric Group regards its corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiatives as the foundation of its corporate management, and upholds its Corporate Mission and Seven Guiding Principles as the basic policies of its CSR. Particularly with respect to initiatives related to ethics and legal compliance, Group-wide eﬀorts are made to enforce measures such as enhancing training and strengthening internal controls. Active measures are also taken to ensure and improve quality assurance, Management Mission Policy Corporate Mission Maintain Balanced Corporate Management for Sustainable Growth The Mitsubishi Electric Group will continually improve its technologies and services by applying creativity to all aspects of its business. By doing so, enhance the quality of life in our society. To this end, all member of the Group will pursue the following Seven Guiding Principles. Growth ● Accelerate growth of strong businesses ● Technology synergies/ Seven Guiding Principles Business synergies ● Agile response to changes in business environment Establish relationships with society, customers, shareholders, ⒈ Trust employees, and business partners Greater based on strong mutual trust Corporate Soundness and respect. Proﬁtability Eﬃciency Value ● Constantly review and refresh business portfolio ● Enhance capital ● Maintain sound ⒉ Quality Provide the best products and eﬃciency ﬁnancial standing services with unsurpassed quality. ● Create a stronger business foundation ● Strengthen corporate governance and compliance on a continuous basis Pioneer new markets by promoting ⒊ Technology research and development, and fostering technological innovation. Strive for Continuous Innovation As a global player, contribution to ⒋ Citizenship the development of communities and society as a whole. Always improving. Always delivering new value. Ethics and In all endeavors, conduct ourselves ⒌ in compliance with applicable laws Pursue the Satisfaction of the Four compliance and high ethical standards. Stakeholder Categories Respect nature, and strive to ⒍ Environment protect and improve the Social Contribution, CSR Excellent Products and Services global environment Society Customer Increase Corporate Value Rewarding Workplaces Assure fair earnings to build a ⒎ Growth foundation for future growth. Shareholder Employee Contemporary Social Issues Identified Social Issues Environmental Issues Resource/ Energy Issues 9 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric environmental preservation activities, philanthropic activities, and communication with stakeholders. By engaging in corporate activities based on a management plan and implementing ongoing improvement activities related to CSR and key performance indicators (KPI) based on the PDCA approach, we will contribute toward creating an aﬄuent society. Corporate CSR Activities Materiality Initiatives through Business The Mitsubishi Electric Group upholds the Corporate Mission and Seven Energy and Guiding Principles as its basic CSR Electric System policies, and aims to become a Global, Leading Green Company that contributes to realizing a prosperous society while promoting initiatives to fulﬁll the four aspects of materiality through the supply chain. Industrial Automation System Realize a sustainable society Information and Communication System Key Contribute to Performance the realization Indicators of a prosperous Provide safety, (KPI) society security, and comfort Electric Devices Home Appliances Initiatives That Support Business Respect human rights and promote the active participation of diverse human resources Environment Social Governance Customers Shareholders Employees Strengthen corporate Mitsubishi Electric governance and compliance on a continuous basis Local communities Governments Group Business partners NGOs and NPOs SDGs 17 Goals and 169 Targets of the SDGs 10 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Mitsubishi Electric Stakeholders To achieve sustainable growth, the Mitsubishi Electric negative effects. Group must maintain communication with its various To help maintain communication with stakeholders, stakeholders. We have a corporate social responsibility we have taken the Four Satisfactions as a management to incorporate the expectations, requests, and opinions policy, with the aim of providing satisfaction to all of our Stakeholders of the Mitsubishi Electric Group of each stakeholder into our corporate activities, and to stakeholders, including society, customers, shareholders, increase our positive effect on society while reducing any andPursue employees. the Satisfaction of the Four Stakeholder Categories Pursue the Satisfaction of the Four Stakeholder Categories Customers Shareholders Employees Social Contribution Excellent Products and Services Society Customer Mitsubishi Increase Corporate Value Rewarding Workplaces Local communities Electric Governments Shareholder Employee Group Pursue the Satisfaction of the Four Stakeholder Categories Business partners NGOs and NPOs Stakeholders of the Mitsubishi Electric Group Promotional System for CSR The policies and planning for the CSR activities of the Knowing that CSR activities are directly linked to Mitsubishi Electric Group are decided by a CSR Committee corporate management, each department responsible appointed by Mitsubishi Electric's executive officers. for ethics and legal compliance, quality assurance and The Committee is composed of the heads of Mitsubishi improvement, environmental conservation and philanthropy Electric's management departments (19 members in activities, and communication with stakeholders implements charge of environmental, social and governance aspects their own initiatives, based on the CSR policy of the from divisions such as Corporate Strategic Planning and Mitsubishi Electric Group. Corporate Human Resources), and discusses the results In addition to the CSR Committee that is generally of activities performed during the previous fiscal year, held once a year, various activities are also promoted decisions on future activity plans, and responses to law and implemented in communication with the CSR Expert amendments, from a perspective that spans the entire Committee and CSR Business Promotion Committee, which Mitsubishi Electric Group. are convened as a forum for sharing and executing the CSR Promotion System policies and plans established by the CSR Committee. CSR Committee Chairman: Corporate Director in charge of CSR Administration Div. Director-general: CSR Promotion Center General Manager of the Corporate Administration Div. CSR CSR Business Promotion Expert Committee Committee Departments Affiliates in Japan Overseas Affiliates CSR Promotion System CSR Committee Main agenda of the CSR Committee (held in April 2018) ⃝R  eport on achievements made in the previous fiscal ⃝R  esponses to ESG (environment, social, governance) year and activities planned in the current fiscal year investment ⃝ Responses to the sustainable development goals ⃝H  uman rights initiatives (SDGs) ⃝S  upply chain management 11 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric CSR Expert Committee CSR Business Promotion Committee Officers from 19 departments with close ties to CSR Managers from all business groups gather in regular regularly hold meetings to share information and deepen meetings to share information about the Mitsubishi Electric their understanding of the Mitsubishi Electric Group's Group's CSR and discuss social issues that need to be CSR materiality and future initiatives, as well as discuss solved, with the theme of contributing to society through responses to laws and regulations and international CSR business. standards. They aim to build communication and consensus The committee held five meetings in fiscal 2018, with through these discussions. a focus on discussing how the Group could contribute to Five such meetings were held in fiscal 2018. Discussions addressing the SDGs through business. focused on verifying the performance and reviewing the targets of initiatives addressing CSR materiality, and discussing responses to the SDGs. The committee also examined responses to global human rights initiatives by establishing working groups for relevant departments. CSR Expert Committee CSR Business Promotion Committee 12 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric CSR Materiality and SDGs Management CSR Materiality Considering requests from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)*, social trends and the business environment, in fiscal 2016 the Mitsubishi Electric Group identified CSR materiality and targets / Key Performance Indicators(KPI) to fulfill the materiality towards realizing the further integration of CSR with management and the long-term advancement of CSR initiatives. * An international body that proposes shared global guidelines for corporate sustainability reporting CSR materiality The Mitsubishi Electric Group upholds the Corporate Mission and Seven Guiding Principles as its basic CSR policies, and aims to be a global, leading green company that contributes to realizing a prosperous society while promoting initiatives to fulfill the four aspects of materiality through the supply chain. Respect human rights Realize a sustainable society and promote the active participation of diverse human resources CSR Materiality Strengthen corporate governance Provide safety, security, and comfort and compliance on a continuous basis The Mitsubishi Electric Group and the SDGs In 2015, the countries of the United Nations General Assembly adopted the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The Mitsubishi Electric Group views these SDGs as an important agenda, the realization of which society seeks. As set forth in the corporate strategy, the Mitsubishi Electric Group positions itself to become a Global, Leading Green Company. As such, we contribute to the realization of a prosperous society that simultaneously achieves sustainability and safety, security and comfort as an embodiment of the Group’ s corporate mission. This policy corresponds to what the globally shared goals of the SDGs aim to achieve. The SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) The SDGs are a set of global goals that are to be achieved between 2016 and 2030. They were adopted by the United Nations General Assembly in September 2015 as a successor to the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) that were formulated in 2001, and are composed of 17 goals and 169 targets for achieving a sustainable world. Two key principles of the SDGs are that they seek change in developed countries, including Japan, and that they pledge no one will be left behind in the implementation of their initiatives. In Japan, the SDGs Promotion Headquarters has been established, chaired by the Prime Minister and composed of all ministers in the Cabinet Office, to formulate implementation guidelines and promote initiatives for the SDGs. United Nations Information Centres 13 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Initiatives to address the SDGs Through the Group’ s diverse businesses and corporate communities, and Goal 13 Climate action are areas activities related to the environment, society and governance that correspond to our vision of becoming a global, (ESG), we believe we can make a contribution toward leading green company. We will contribute even more accomplishing the 17 globally shared goals of the SDGs. to achieving the SDGs by creating value in these areas However, to contribute further, we need to identify via technology synergies and business synergies and goals to which we are particularly well positioned to prioritizing the initiatives we advance. contribute. As a comprehensive electronics manufacturer, In these ways, the Mitsubishi Electric Group will we can contribute significantly to Goal 7 Affordable integrate the concept of the SDGs into its management and clean energy, Goal 11 Sustainable cities and strategy and continue to promote company-wide awareness of the SDGs. SDGs for the Mitsubishi Electric Group to prioritize SDGs for the Mitsubishi Electric Group to prioritize Embodiment of the corporate “Global, Leading Green Company” contribute to the realization of a prosperous society mission Simultaneous achievement of “sustainability” and “safety, security and comfort” Contribute Increase energy efficiency in products and systems through Realize sustainable lifestyles that are safe, value creation secure and comfortable … Make strong businesses stronger, Technology synergiesand business synergies, Innovation Contribute through Governance all corporate activities Environment Social Contributing to realizing the SDGs through initiatives Mitsubishi Electricrelated with regard to the SDGs s CSR materialities to CSR materiality and our thinking The Mitsubishi Electric Group has specified CSR materiality CSR materiality Contribute to the SDGs and defined individual targets and KPI, and is pushing ahead with initiatives to achieve the targets. We will Realize a sustainable society Contribute specify and revise our CSR materiality with a focus on how through value creation we can contribute to resolving social issues as a company, Provide safety, security, and comfort and seek to contribute to realizing the SDGs through the initiatives we apply to the CSR materiality. Respect human rights to meeting and promote the active participation the SDGs’ 17 goals of diverse human resources Contribute Strengthen corporate governance through Mitsubishi Electric’s CSR materiality and compliance on a continuous basis all corporate activities and our thinking with regard to the SDGs 14 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Initiatives related to the 17 SDGs The Mitsubishi Electric Group, as a comprehensive projects on a national scale. As such, we believe that we electrical and electronic manufacturer, handles a wide can also make a contribution toward accomplishing the range of technologies, products, and services, ranging 17 SDGs. from familiar home electronics products to satellites and No Poverty Zero Hunger Good Health and Well-being Quality Education We are working to end poverty We are contributing to solving foodWe contribute to improving In addition to providing technological by creating employment through related issues through measures health and well-being through assistance to developing nations the global expansion of our including the provision of IT support transportation safety support and supporting remote education business, and launching initiatives for agriculture via ICT and positioning systems that help to cut down through our communication and IT including the establishment satellites, improving productivity in traffic accidents, as well as through technologies, we are contributing of social infrastructure and foodstuffs factories through FA, and cutting-edge Air conditioning to fostering the next generation philanthoropic activities. supplying refrigeration and freezing Systems that contribute to the and beyond through activities that technologies for food. advancement of treatment. contribute to society. Gender Equality Clean Water and Sanitation Affordable and Clean Energy Decent Work and Economic Growth We are supporting the social The Group has technology for We are working to develop Through our FA and AI empowerment of women treating and purifying water, technologies and systems that technologies, we are working through providing ICT services and supplies technologies and will help produce a smart, to contribute to increased and supplying home appliances, systems whose purpose is to energy-conserving, and energyproductivity and the provision of and we are promoting the further deliver safe water. creating society — technologies, desirable working environments advancement of women within products, and services that we throughout the Group. the Group. are endeavoring to make widely available. Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure Reduced Inequalities Sustainable Cities and Communities Responsible Consumption and Production The Group supports In cooperation with our We provide safety, security, We are endeavoring to reduce manufacturing through its stakeholders, we are contributing and comfort to people's lives the volume of resources used factory automation business, to realizing discrimination-free through our work in the disasterin manufacturing and to recycle and nurtures development societies that respect prevention and infrastructurespent products. Additionally, we in the industrial field through human rights. development fields. are also pushing to reduce the technological innovation. volume of final waste disposed and to be environmentally friendly in our resource procurements. Climate Action Life below Water / Life on Land Peace, Justice Partnerships for the Goals and Strong Institutions We are working to identify a We develop and supply We are contributing to the total valuation of our CO2 and observation satellites that Based on laws and international achievement of the SDGs other greenhouse gas emissions deliver information about ocean norms, we are working to through partnerships with in order to set our goals and forest conditions, and improve both our supply chains entities including governments, for reductions. furthermore promote initiatives at and areas including human rights, universities, research institutes, our offices aimed at harmonizing labor, the environment and the companies, and NGOs, pushing their activities with the prevention of corruption on a ahead with open innovation and local environment. global scale. other initiatives. 15 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Progress of Initiatives to Address the SDGs The Mitsubishi Electric Group is conducting measures Director of the United Nations Information Centre in in a variety of forms to make our employees aware Tokyo, participated in a dialogue between Mitsubishi of the background to the adoption of the SDGs and Electric management and experts, and indicated potential to entrench the individual goals themselves, in order expectations on the Group in relation to the SDGs. to deepen understanding of the SDGs among each of With achievement of the goals we share globally them. Considering how the Mitsubishi Electric Group as our objective, we will maintain our efforts to bolster could contribute, the Group’ s CSR committee, CSR management as we work to make everyone throughout expert committee and CSR business promotion group the company fully cognizant of our SDGs and integrate commenced reviews by devising potential responses by the thinking behind them into our operations. their own companies. In fiscal 2018, we decided on goals that we could implement on a priority basis. In addition, in fiscal 2018, Ms. Kaoru Nemoto, Main initiatives to the present ⃝ L ecture presentation for executives by Toshio Arima, ⃝ L ecture presentations regarding the SDGs for a board member of Global Compact Network Japan research and development divisions (fiscal 2018) (fiscal 2018) ⃝ Promoting understanding about the SDGs through ⃝ Reflecting of SDGs in our business strategy (fiscal internal newsletters (fiscal 2018, fiscal 2019) 2018, fiscal 2019) ⃝ Education of staff to advance the SDGs during training of CSR personnel (fiscal 2018) Lecture presentation for executives by Toshio Arima from Lecture presentation regarding the SDGs for research and Global Compact Network Japan development divisions Corporate Strrategy 2018 Training of CSR personnel In-house newsletter VOICE (In charge of training on SDGs for research and development divisions) Group Manager Marketing Group, Center for Future Innovation, Industrial Design Center Mitsubishi Electric Corporation Tomoki Tsukada The SDGs encompass numerous issues that can and should be addressed using products and services that employ Mitsubishi Electric Group’s technologies. Up to the present, I have conducted a variety of activities aimed at encouraging an understanding of the fact that the SDGs can function as the point of origin of business ideas. These include calling for participation in external workshops focusing on the SDGs, and organizing lecture presentations by experts. In the future, my goal is to obtain an accurate grasp of trends in social change from a longterm perspective, and, by establishing concrete areas in which the Mitsubishi Electric Group should conduct R&D and advancing that R&D, to contribute to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals that will improve the quality of life of the greatest number of people through business activities. 16 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Mitsubishi Electric group & Small World Project S DGs Research and Development Activities for the Lives of the BOP Segment About the Small World Project An excess of seventy percent of the world population falls within the low-income segment known as the BOP . The Small World Project was hatched by the Mitsubishi Electric junior researchers, based on the idea that Mitsubishi Electric products and technologies should be utilized to benefit not only certain developed countries, but the communities and lives of people throughout the world. We will contribute to improving the lives of the world's people by visiting local communities and extracting challenges and approaches to solutions through experience and communication with people in the BOP segment. A Compact Refrigerator for Increasing Incomes from Selling Fish On the numerous large and small islands that make up Indonesia, fish from the sea are not only a primary source of food, but their sales are also a source of daily livelihood for many people. However, fish sold under the scorching sun tend to spoil quickly. This causes drops in sales prices or fish left unsold, leading to income instability. There are also health issues such as food poisoning caused by consuming spoiled fish. To address such issues that have been revealed by local investigation, we aim to develop a compact refrigerator as one of the challenges of this project. Selling fish by motorcycle, and a close-up of spoiled fish SDGs to which we can Contribute Goal 1: The compact refrigerator will enable sales of fresh fish over longer hours and to more distant locations. This would lead to more stable/increased income by preventing price drops and reducing the number of unsold fish. Prototype model of the motorcycle-powered Goal 3: The compact refrigerator compact refrigerator will prevent food poisoning caused by consumption of spoiled fish. It would also be useful in delivering vaccines in areas without electricity, and for applications that require temperature control. A meeting with local people who will take part in the test sale using the prototype 17 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Mitsubishi Electric group & User Interface for Voice-activated Drawing S DGs User Interface for Voice-activated Develop a world-first app to achieve smooth Drawing and diverse communications with the deaf, hard-of-hearing people and foreigners. Communication that allows the deaf, hard-of-hearing people and foreigners to break through barriers There have always been major communication barriers between the deaf, hard-of-hearing people and hearing people who don’ t know sign language, and among people without a common language. Japan, in particular, is looking forward to rapid growth in foreign visitors, so barriers of language and hearing impairment are major social issues. Mitsubishi Electric has developed the world-first “User Interface for Voice-activated Drawing”which can display spoken words as text on lines traced with the fingers. This UI has a new function that displays text along the line traced with your finger if you move your finger on the display while talking. “User Interface for Voice-activated Drawing,”used in a voice-activated app that combines drawing with multilingual translation and other functions, achieves an intuitive and approachable ease of operation, enabling easy enjoyable direct dialog with the deaf, hard-of-hearing people and foreigners who would have been hard to communicate with before. Features of“User Interface for CASE Voice-activated Drawing”Trace with your ﬁ nger while talking to display text Break through the barrier of hearing impairment Conventionally, sign language and written communication have been used as tools to break through barriers imposed by hearing impairment. However, even when hearing people try to communicate by pointing to documents or diagrams, the deaf and hard-of-hearing people had difficulty following the explanation because they cannot watch both the speaking person’ s mouth Trace with your finger Text is displayed and hands at the same time. The“User Interface while talking along the traced line for Voice-activated Drawing”App can be used to point at text and illustrations and display spoken words as text from a fingertip, so the content can Main SDGs to Which be understood just by looking at the screen. We Can Contribute Support smooth, fun communication that breaks through barriers of hearing impairment and language. Help to build a society in which the emotions of people around the Scenario illustration world are connected. The deaf and hard-of-hearing children can talk with their parents while drawing pictures 18 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Initiatives / External Evaluation Initiatives In May 2018, the Mitsubishi Electric Group signed the UN Global Compact (UNGC) aimed at promoting CSR activities based on international norms. By signing the UNGC, the Group pledges to make continued efforts toward sustainable growth by complying with the ten principles in the four areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption to the extent that it can influence society. Efforts will be made to enhance the Group’ s activities by maintaining close communication with UN organizations and relevant initiatives. UN Global Compact Initiatives as an official partner of the Olympic and Paralympic Games Tokyo 2020 Mitsubishi Electric will fulfill its role as an official partner spreading and raising awareness of Para-Sports, but also of the Tokyo 2020 in the category of elevators, escalators aim to contribute to creating a inclusive society where and moving walkways by contributing to making relevant everyone mutually respects and accepts each other facilities and surrounding infrastructure barrier-free, and regardless of any disabilities. by promoting the success of the Tokyo 2020 through For example, the Mitsubishi Electric Going Up activities that support the Olympic and Paralympic Campaign kicked off in October 2016 as a project for movement and by assisting the Japanese national team. spreading familiarity with wheelchair basketball and We will work in close coordination with the Organising various other sports among as many people as possible. It Committee and Tokyo, the host city of the Games, as well will be held in sequence throughout Japan toward 2020. as with other local governments, the central government Additionally, Mitsubishi Electric Going Up Seminars have and partner companies to leave a new legacy to the next also been launched in November 2017 to promote a generation after the Tokyo 2020. better understanding of diversity and actions that respect human rights among all employees. This initiative will also be implemented in all offices toward 2020. Tokyo 2020 Official Partner (Elevators, Escalators and Moving Walkways) Mitsubishi Electric engages in activities to spread the sports culture through corporate sports events such as in basketball, tennis and badminton, and has signed official contracts with the Japanese Para-Sports Association and the Japan Wheelchair Basketball Federation. Through these activities, we not only contribute to 19 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Revision of the Charter of Corporate Behavior of the Keidanren The Japan Business Federation, better known as Keidanren, has revised its Charter of Corporate Behavior*1 in November 2017. The revision is to give primary *1 A code of ethics put forward by aim to proactively delivering on the SDGs (sustainable Keidanren as matters to be carried development goals) through the realization of Society out and pursued by all member 5.0*2, and is thought to emphasize initiatives for realizing companies. a sustainable society and for promoting human rights. As *2 T he fifth and new generation of society in the history of human a member of Keidanren, Mitsubishi Electric will voluntarily society following the huntercarry out and observe the spirit of the Charter. gathering, agricultural, industrial and information societies. Main initiatives in which Mitsubishi Electric is Participating ⃝ Japan Business Federation (Keidanren) ⃝C  ommunications and Information Network Association ⃝ Japan Association of Corporate Executives of Japan ⃝ The Japan Chamber of Commerce and Industry ⃝ The Japan Machinery Federation ⃝J  apan Electronics and Information Technology ⃝ Council on Competitiveness-Nippon Industries Association ⃝ Japanese Standards Association ⃝ The Japan Electrical Manufacturers' Association ⃝ Japan Intellectual Property Association ⃝ Japan Institute of Invention and Innovation External Evaluation CDP MSCI Indexes Mitsubishi Electric has once again in fiscal 2018 been MSCI (USA) is a company that calculates and announces named to the A List Companies, the highest ranking given various indexes of global constituents. In July 2017, by the international non-governmental organization CDP, Mitsubishi Electric was chosen as a constituent for the in recognition of its environmental initiatives in the three MSCI Japan ESG Select Leaders Index, which consists of categories of climate, water resources and supply chain Japanese stock names ranked according to their ESG for the second consecutive year following fiscal 2017. (environment, social, governance) performance, and also for the MSCI Japan Empowering Women Index (WIN), consisting of select companies in Japan displaying excellent gender diversity. The two indexes have also been adopted as an investment outlet by the Government Pension Investment Fund. Named to the highest A List rank by CDP (Environment) FTSE Index Series FTSE Russell (UK) is a company that engages in the development of global investment indexes and the provision of financial data to investors. Mitsubishi Electric was named as a constituent of the company’ s FTSE4Good Index Series for the first time in 2017. MS-SRI (Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment Index) Additionally, in July 2017, Mitsubishi Electric was In January 2018, Mitsubishi Electric was selected to the selected as a constituent of the FTSE Blossom Japan Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment Index (MSIndex. The index has also been adopted as an investment SRI), which selects and creates an index of 150 Japanese outlet by the Government Pension Investment Fund. companies evaluated by Morningstar Japan K.K. as socially responsible companies. 20 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Process of Identification and Review of the CSR Materiality In fiscal 2016, the Mitsubishi Electric Group identified CSR information disclosure. materiality and initiatives in response to today's social In fiscal 2018, an internal review of the materiality trends and business environment, as also specified in the was undertaken by the CSR Expert Committee and CSR fourth edition of the GRI Guidelines (G4 Guidelines). Business Promotion Committee, in view of subjective While continuing to incorporate opinions from inside evaluations from outside the company, including and outside the company, these initiatives will be further stakeholder questionnaires (600 respondents) that were strengthened through ongoing improvement activities also carried out in fiscal 2017, interviews with experts, based on the PDCA cycle, to expand the scope of and dialogues between experts and management. Process of Identifying and Reviewing the Materiality Step 1 Awareness of social issues Extraction of candidate materiality from guidelines, etc. Candidate CSR materiality (29 issues) were identified based on the core issues of ISO26000*1, the 46 priority aspects laid out in the fourth edition of the GRI Guidelines*2, and the 169 items of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)*3. *1 G uidelines concerning social responsibility issued by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) *2 T he fourth edition of the international guidelines for sustainability called Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (GRI Guidelines) issued by the international NGO, Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) *3 S ustainable development goals adopted by the UN General Assembly, composed of 17 goals and 169 targets, including issues to be addressed not only by developing countries, but by developed countries as well Extraction of candidate materiality from guidelines, etc. Step 2 Assessment of internal and external views and identification of materiality 三菱電機グループ CSR アンケート ＜記入要領＞ ・ステークホルダー区分について、プルダウンメニューよりお選びください。 ・以下の項目は、三菱電機グループとして、いずれも重要な取り組みですが、皆様からご覧になって、さらなる取り組みが期待される分野などを 明らかにするために、以下の５段階で期待度を記入して下さい（期待度欄のプルダウンメニューから数値を選択してください）。 ・可能な範囲で、記入いただいた期待度の理由を「理由・コメント」欄に記載してください。 最優先での取り組みを期待 現状より取り組むことを期待 現状の取り組みで良い ５ ４ ３ ２ １ l＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿l＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿l＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿l＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿l 【注意事項】 ・期待度の記入は、できるだけ５と１を含めて、５～１まで項目間の差がつくようにお願いいたします。 ・下記項目以外に、取り組みを期待する事項がある場合は、「自由記入欄」にご記入ください。 ステークホ ルダー区分 事業を通じた三菱電機グループへの期待 No. 項目 期待度 理由・コメント 1 環境問題の解決に貢献する製品・サービスの提供 2 途上国の発展に貢献する製品・サービスの提供 3 健康・高齢化問題の解決に貢献する製品・サービスの提供 4 安心・安全な生活に貢献する製品・サービスの提供 5 エネルギー問題の解決に貢献する製品・サービスの提供 6 スマートな街づくりに貢献する製品・サービスの提供 7 事業活動における省エネの推進 8 事業活動における水使用量削減の推進 9 事業活動における生態系への配慮 10 事業活動におけるCO2削減の推進 11 事業活動における資源のリサイクル推進 12 化学物質の適正管理 13 製造・利用・廃棄時の環境負荷が少ない製品の開発 14 お客様の環境意識向上に向けた取り組み推進 15 製品の品質・安全確保 16 取引先に対する当社グループCSR活動への協力依頼 企業としての三菱電機グループへの期待 No. 項目 期待度 理由・コメント 17 従業員の安全確保 18 従業員の健康確保 19 雇用や労働条件への配慮 20 ダイバーシティ（多様な人材の活用）の推進 21 人権の尊重 22 ワークライフバランス（仕事と生活の調和）の推進 23 グローバル人材の育成 24 地域社会への貢献 25 ステークホルダー（利害関係者）との積極的な対話 26 コンプライアンス（法令順守）の徹底 27 個人情報の保護 28 知的財産権の保護 29 健全なチェック機能が働く企業経営 自由記入欄 Questionnaire for stakeholders Internal working groups Interviews with experts Dialogues with experts 21 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Step 3 Establishment of materiality Decision-making by the CSR Committee The issues thus extracted and identified through the above-described process and specific initiatives and key performance indicators (KPIs) were confirmed by an internal working group and adopted as the Mitsubishi Electric Group's CSR materiality by the CSR Committee. Decision-making by the CSR Committee Step 4 Review of the materiality In fiscal 2018, an ongoing review of was conducted ⃝ Interviews with experts in continuation from fiscal 2017 regarding the ⃝ Dialogues CSR materiality, initiatives, and key performance ⃝ Reader surveys regarding the CSR Report indicators (KPIs), in consideration of opinions from ⃝ Discussion by the CSR Committee, CSR Expert both inside and outside the company. Committee and CSR Business Promotion Committee Interviews with experts Dialogues with experts Key points for fiscal 2018: Identifying sustainable development goals (SDGs) to address with priority In fiscal 2018, discussions were held to identify which SDG goals the Mitsubishi Electric Group should address with priority. These discussions incorporated the views obtained through interviews with experts, dialogues with senior executives, and reader surveys regarding the CSR Report, and elicited the active participation of all business groups across the company. CSR Materiality and SDGs Management CSR Committee, CSR Expert Committee, CSR Business Promotion Committee In fiscal 2018, particular efforts were made to identify the The committees will continue to strengthen their SDGs to address with priority and to share an awareness initiatives through continuous reviews and ongoing regarding the importance of disclosing information improvement activities based on the PDCA cycle, in in response to growing ESG (environment, social, response to changes in the external and business governance) investments. environments. Social demands that were particularly taken into consideration in fiscal 2018 ⃝ SDGs ⃝ Paris Agreement ⃝F  urther promotion of information disclosure in ⃝ Global trends in human rights response to growing ESG investments ⃝ Initiatives of the Group as a global company 22 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Management of the CSR Materiality In fiscal 2016, the Mitsubishi Electric Group identified the Principles as its basic CSR policy, the Group will continue CSR materiality, initiatives to fulfill the materiality, and key to pursue its initiatives for addressing the four materiality performance indicators (KPI). In fiscal 2017, it announced in cooperation with business partners along the supply its performance in regard to those initiatives and carried chain, with the aim of becoming a global leading green out a review of each initiative and KPI. company that contributes to a diverse society. By upholding the Corporate Mission and Seven Guiding Realize a Sustainable Society FY2018 initiatives and results Initiatives Key performance indicators (KPI) (quantitative targets are shown in brackets) Results Scope Evaluation Reduce CO2 emissions from production 1.28 million tons (FY2016) → 1.34 million tons (FY2017) Contributing to All Mitsubishi Electric 〇 (less than 1.37 million tons by FY2018) → 1.27 million tons (FY2018) realizing a lowGroup companies Reduce CO emissions from product usage 34% reduction (FY2016) → 35% reduction (FY2017) → (Japan, overseas) 〇 2 carbon society (35% reduction compared to FY2001 by FY2018) 35% reduction (FY2018) Reduce resource inputs 39% reduction (FY2016) → 38% reduction (FY2017) → 〇 (40% reduction compared to FY2001 by FY2018) 40% reduction (FY2018) Less than 0.1% by Mitsubishi Electric and domestic All Mitsubishi Electric Contributing Improve the final disposal rate of waste materials affiliates, 0.67% by overseas affiliates (FY2016) → Group companies (Mitsubishi Electric and domestic affiliates to maintain Less than 0.1% by Mitsubishi Electric and domestic (Japan, overseas) to creating a △ a rate of less than 0.1%, and overseas affiliates to affiliates, 0.69% by overseas affiliates (FY2017) → recycling society halve the rate to less than 0.5% by FY2018) Less 0.1% by Mitsubishi Electric and domestic affiliates, Realization of 0.57% by overseas affiliates (FY2018) Environmental Maintain a plastic recycling rate of 70% or higher for Home appliances Vision 2021*1 Maintained a rate of 70% (FY2017) → 70% (FY2018) 〇 home appliances (maintain rate of 70%) (Japan) Increase the number of participants in outdoor All Mitsubishi Electric classrooms and satoyama preservation activities 28,000 participants (FY2016) → 32,600 participants Contributing Group companies 〇 (cumulative total of more than 30,000 participants by (FY2017) → 39,000 participants (FY2018) to realizing a (Japan, overseas) FY2018) symbiotic society Expansion of local species protection activities to offices 7 offices (FY2016) Mitsubishi Electric 〇 in Japan (a total of 24 offices by FY2018) → 17 offices (FY2017) → 24 offices (FY2018) Strengthening the environmental Maintain a 100% attendance in environmental e-learning Maintained a rate of 100% (FY2017) → 99.8% (FY2018) Mitsubishi Electric △ management programs (maintain rate of 100%) foundation Contributed to mitigating and adapting to climate Provide products and services that contribute change by optimizing energy use through products and to mitigating and adapting to climate change, services*2 All Mitsubishi Electric 〇 Contribution through products and optimizing energy use and sustainable production and consumption. C  ontributed to sustainable production and consumption Group companies services through products and services*2 (Japan, overseas) Maintain the reduction of CO2 during product usage 67 million tons (FY2016) → 69 million tons (FY2017) × (92 million tons by FY2018) → 71 million tons (FY2018) *1 T argets of the 8th environmental plan (fiscal 2016–2018) *2 Example (FY2018): MIND Internet data center, SIC chips, GaN transistors and devices, semi-transmissive LCD modules, station auxiliary power supply, BuilUnity, ZEB, development for expansion of motor generator variations, DIAPLANET TOWN EMS service for smart towns, ECOrates integrated environmental information system, e-image electronic form system FY2019 targets Initiatives Key performance indicators (KPI) (quantitative targets are shown in brackets) Scope Contributing to Reduce CO2 emissions from production (less than 1.47 million tons by FY2019) All Mitsubishi Electric realizing a lowGroup companies carbon society Reduce CO2 emissions from product usage (35% reduction compared to FY2001 by FY2019) (Japan, overseas) Reduce resource inputs (40% reduction compared to FY2001 by FY2019) All Mitsubishi Electric Improve the final disposal rate of waste materials (Mitsubishi Electric and domestic affiliates to maintain a rate of less than 0.1%, Group companies Contributing and overseas affiliates to reduce the rate to less than 0.5% by FY2019) (Japan, overseas) Realization of to creating a Maintain a plastic recycling rate of 70% or higher for home appliances (maintain rate of 70%) Home appliances (Japan) Environmental recycling society Vision 2021*1 All Mitsubishi Electric Improve the per-unit sales of water usage (annual improvement of 1% compared to FY2011) Group companies (Japan, overseas) All Mitsubishi Electric Contributing Increase the number of participants in outdoor classrooms and satoyama preservation activities Group companies to realizing a (cumulative total of more than 51,000 participants) (Japan, overseas) symbiotic society 2 Enhance the level of biodiversity protection activities by offices in line with the Aichi Targets* Mitsubishi Electric Provide products and services that contribute to the mitigation and adaptation to climate change, optimization of energy use, and All Mitsubishi Electric Contribution through products and sustainable production and consumption Group companies services (Japan, overseas) Maintain the reduction of CO2 during product usage (70 million tons by FY2001 standards) *1 Targets of the 9th environmental plan (fiscal 2019–2021) *2 Aichi Targets: 20 targets for stopping biodiversity loss agreed upon at COP10 23 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Provide Safety, Security, and Comfort FY2018 initiatives and results Initiatives Key performance indicators (KPI) (quantitative targets are shown in brackets) Results Scope Evaluation Ensure safety through risk assessment All Mitsubishi Electric Product development that places Maintained a 100% rate of implementation of risk (maintain a 100% rate of implementation of risk Group companies 〇 top priority on customer safety assessments of relevant home electronics assessments of home electronics) (Japan, overseas) Develop key persons who are capable of incorporating customers' needs into quality (development of 100% of relevant persons in all Development of 75% of relevant persons (FY2016) → Mitsubishi Electric departments by FY2021) Development of 88% of relevant persons (FY2017) → Group companies 〇 ※Relevant persons: Persons who are able to assess and verify Development of 96% of relevant persons (FY2018) (Japan) customer demands and the basic functions of products and Provision of products and secure and guarantee functions, safety, security and reliability services that reflect at the development and design stages customers' needs Achieved a 100% rate of implementation of investigations into the root causes of serious defects discovered in the Make Group-wide efforts to investigate the cause of previous fiscal year All Mitsubishi Electric serious malfunctions that have occurred in the past, and Called attention throughout the Mitsubishi Electric Group companies 〇 implement countermeasures Group (Japan and overseas) regarding common (Japan, overseas) technical issues such as failsafes at the end of the lifecycle of products and salt corrosion Maintained a 100% rate of participation in e-learning programs by Mitsubishi Electric employees and Continuous implementation of employees of domestic affiliates Maintain a 100% rate of participation in e-learning All Mitsubishi Electric education on quality principles programs on quality Expanded the participation of overseas affiliates in Group companies 〇 that place top priority (maintain a rate of 100%) (Japan, overseas) e-learning programs 12 overseas affiliates (FY2016) → on customers 27 overseas affiliates (FY2017) → 41 overseas affiliates (FY2018) Contributed to creating safe and secure communities Provide products and services that contribute to creating through products and services* All Mitsubishi Electric Contribution through products safe and secure communities and to improving health and Group companies 〇 and services welfare Contributed to improving health and welfare through (Japan, overseas) products and services* * P rovision of cyberattack countermeasures, information security services, recording and distribution systems for network cameras, AXIEZ multi-language emergency response system, autonomous driving technologies FY2019 targets Initiatives Key performance indicators (KPI) (quantitative targets are shown in brackets) Scope Product development that Ensure safety through risk assessment All Mitsubishi Electric Group companies places top priority on customer (maintain 100% implementation of risk assessments of target home electronic products) (Japan, overseas) safety Develop key persons who are capable of incorporating customers' needs into quality Mitsubishi Electric Group companies Provision of products and (development of 100% of relevant persons in all target departments by FY2021) (Japan) services that reflect customers' needs Make Group-wide efforts to investigate the cause of serious malfunctions that have occurred in the past, and All Mitsubishi Electric Group companies implement countermeasures (Japan, overseas) Continuous implementation of education on quality principles Maintain 100% rate of participation in quality e-learning programs All Mitsubishi Electric Group companies that place top priority on (maintain rate of 100%) (Japan, overseas) customers Contribution through products All Mitsubishi Electric Group companies Provide products and services that contribute to creating safe and secure communities and services (Japan, overseas) 24 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Respect Human Rights and Promote the Active Participation of Diverse Human Resources FY2018 initiatives and results Initiatives Key performance indicators (KPI) (quantitative targets are shown in brackets) Results Scope Evaluation Established the Human Rights Policy based on international norms and disseminated it in and outside the Group All Mitsubishi Electric Ensure proper response to international norms related to human rights and dissemination among employees Group companies 〇 Provided human rights education to the CSR Expert Prohibition of discriminatory (Japan, overseas) Committee for dissemination across the company treatment, and human respect Provide lectures on human rights awareness and harassment Provided lectures on human rights awareness and harassment prevention in training programs for new employees and those prevention to all participants attending training programs for new Mitsubishi Electric 〇 for newly appointed managers employees and newly appointed managers Incorporated the Work Style Reforms as a management Realization of workplace All Mitsubishi Electric Slim down operations through the Work Style Reforms, and issue of Mitsubishi Electric, slimmed down operations environments conducive to cultivate an awareness of results and efficiency. across the Group and cultivated an awareness of results Group companies 〇 work-life balance (Japan, overseas) and efficiency Promote diversity by employing and utilizing diverse Promoted diversity by employing and utilizing diverse All Mitsubishi Electric human resources in response to regional and operational human resources across the Mitsubishi Electric Group Group companies 〇 circumstances (Japan and overseas) (Japan, overseas) Consolidated result of three companies*1: 2.21% (as of Employ people with disabilities beyond the statutory March 15, 2018) Mitsubishi Electric 〇 Promotion of diversity through employment rate Group companies (Mitsubishi Promoted the achievement of the statutory employment the employment and utilization (higher than 2.0%) (Japan) Electric) rate by domestic affiliates of diverse human resources Increase the ratio of women among new recruits in technical 9% (FY2017; October 2015 and April 2016 recruits) → positions 11% (FY2018; October 2016 and April 2017 recruits) → 〇 (future target of 20%) 13% (FY2019; October 2017 and April 2018 recruits) Mitsubishi Electric Systematically dispatch employees to overseas OJT programs Dispatched 103 employees to overseas OJT programs, and language programs (more than 180 employees/year) 103 employees to overseas language programs 〇 Promoted safety and health management activities in conjunction with affiliated companies that operate in the All Mitsubishi Electric Promote safety management and health enhancement activities same areas as Mitsubishi Electric Group companies 〇 Provided assistance to affiliated companies (Japan and (Japan, overseas) overseas) from Mitsubishi Electric Promote safety and health education, and maintain a rate of Offered safety and health education (e-learning programs) lost worktime injuries*2 that falls below the industrial average to all employees Mitsubishi Electric 〇 Promotion of occupational health (below 0.51) Rate of lost worktime injuries (absence from work): 0.10 and mental and physical health Improve lifestyle habits and realize a health-conscious company by implementing Mitsubishi Electric Group Health Plan 21 Rate of employees maintaining proper body weight 70.2% (MHP21) Stage III activities (rate of employees maintaining or higher; rate of employees who exercise regularly: Mitsubishi Electric proper body weight: 73.0% or higher; rate of employees who 24.7%; rate of employees who smoke: 24.0%; rate of exercise regularly: 39.0%; rate of employees who smoke: employees who perform dental care at least three times Group companies △ (Japan) 20.0%; rate of employees who perform dental care at least a day: 24.2%; rate of 67.0 % or higher of employees who three times a day: 25.0%; rate of 85% or higher of employees get enough rest by sleeping properly who get enough rest by sleeping properly) *1 Mitsubishi Electric Corporation, Mitsubishi Electric Life Service Corporation, Melco Tender Mates Corporation (special subsidiary) *2 Number of accidents causing lost worktime per 1 million hours FY2019 targets Initiatives Key performance indicators (KPI) (quantitative targets are shown in brackets) Scope Identify and evaluate impacts on human rights across the Group (achieve a 100% rate of implementation by target companies) All Mitsubishi Electric Promote human rights initiatives Group companies that are based on international Promote ongoing human rights training programs, relief measures against human rights violations and other such measures (Japan, overseas) norms Provide lectures on human rights awareness and harassment prevention in training programs for new employees and those for newly Mitsubishi Electric appointed managers Realization of workplace All Mitsubishi Electric Continue to promote the Work Style Reforms based on four perspectives (Improvement of productivity by streamlining operations, Further environments conducive to Group companies pursuit of achievements and efficiency, Work-life fulfillment and Promotion of communication in the workplace) work-life balance (Japan, overseas) All Mitsubishi Electric Promote diversity by employing and utilizing diverse human resources in response to regional and operational circumstances Group companies (Japan, overseas) Promotion of diversity through Mitsubishi Electric Group the employment and utilization Employ people with disabilities beyond the statutory employment rate (higher than 2.2%) companies (Japan) of diverse human resources Increase the ratio of women among new recruits in technical positions (future target of 20%) Mitsubishi Electric Systematically dispatch employees to overseas OJT programs and language programs (more than 180 employees/year) All Mitsubishi Electric Promote safety management and health enhancement activities Group companies (Japan, overseas) Promotion of occupational health Promote safety and health education, and maintain a rate of lost worktime injuries*3 that falls below the industrial average (below 0.51) Mitsubishi Electric and mental and physical health Improve lifestyle habits and realize a health-conscious company by implementing Mitsubishi Electric Group Health Plan 21 (MHP21) Stage III activities (rate of 73.0% or higher of employees maintaining proper body weight; rate of 39.0% or higher of employees who Mitsubishi Electric Group exercise regularly; rate of 20.0% or lower of employees who smoke; rate of 25.0% or higher of employees who perform dental care companies (Japan) at least three times a day; rate of 85% or higher of employees who get enough rest by sleeping properly) *3 Number of accidents causing lost worktime per 1 million hours 25 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Strengthen Corporate Governance and Compliance on a Continuous Basis FY2018 initiatives and results Key performance indicators (KPI) (quantitative targets are Initiatives Results Scope Evaluation shown in brackets) Hold a dialogue on CSR with stakeholders Held interviews with experts regarding CSR issues seven times; held a dialogue more than once a year between experts and management officers on CSR issues 〇 (more than once/year) Held a general meeting of shareholders All Mitsubishi Electric Active dialogue with Hold dialogues with stakeholders through the Held corporate strategy presentation meetings, financial results presentation Group companies stakeholders general meeting of shareholders, corporate meetings, and individual meetings with institutional investors and analysts, (Japan, overseas) strategy presentation meetings, business in addition to business strategy presentation meetings of the power devices 〇 strategy presentation meetings, and IR business and FA systems business, and presentations on R&D strategies and activities in Japan and overseas achievements Held company information sessions for individual investors Provided information that directors require for the supervision of management, in a timely and proper manner, and created new forums for providing data and exchanging views with outside directors to ensure greater provision of proper Provide proper information to directors at the and timely information to directors proper time, conduct a review of the board of 〇 Conducted a review of the board of directors, with the result that the board's directors, and analyze and evaluate the review ongoing initiatives based on the results of the review of the board of directors Mitsubishi Electric and its discussions that have become more active and frank compared to before were deemed valid Corporate management Provide orientation training and other Provided prior training about the roles, responsibilities and dealings of directors with a sound oversight compliance education and training to directors and executive officers to new appointees 〇 function and executive officers as appropriate at the Provided compliance education to directors and executive officers after their proper time appointment, and distributed the latest training materials Establish the necessary internal regulations and frameworks for ensuring the appropriateness of the Mitsubishi Electric Established internal regulations and frameworks, conducted an internal All Mitsubishi Electric Group's businesses, conduct an internal audit audit, and regularly reported the audit results to the Audit Committee via the Group companies 〇 of their status of operation, and regularly executive officer in charge of audits (Japan, overseas) report the audit result to the Audit Committee via the executive officer in charge of audits Maintain a 100% attendance in e-learning Compliance training on a programs on compliance (maintain rate of Maintained a 100% attendance rate Mitsubishi Electric 〇 continuous basis 100%) Provided practical training programs based on case studies pertaining to each Fair competition business on an ongoing basis to approx. 7,000 participants All Mitsubishi Electric Enhance measures for compliance with (prevention of antimonopoly laws and competition laws Systematization of some rules concerning contacts with other companies in the Group companies 〇 antimonopoly violations) same business (Aim to mitigate workload by improving efficiency, make sure (Japan, overseas) the evidence is stored and avoid missing procedures, etc.) Established the Mitsubishi Electric Group Bribery Prevention Policy Developed regulations and guidelines that specifically aim to prevent bribery All Mitsubishi Electric Corruption prevention Enhance corruption prevention measures (scheduled to be distributed within the Group within the next fiscal year or later) Group companies 〇 (prevention of bribery) (Japan, overseas) Provided bribery prevention education (approx. 730 onsite education participants, approx. 21,800 e-learning participants) CSR procurement Promote CSR procurement and provide Provided improvement instructions to 26 suppliers. Verified an improvement in Mitsubishi Electric, improvement instructions to parts of the supply 26 companies (environment, quality, Mitsubishi Electric Group chain that pose a risk 〇 human rights, (assess the number of relevant suppliers to Expanded the scope of target suppliers to overseas companies (carried out companies (Japan, some compliance, etc.) surveys of approx. 400 suppliers mainly in China and Thailand) overseas) supply chain whom instructions have been provided) FY2019 targets Initiatives Key performance indicators (KPI) (quantitative targets are shown in brackets) Scope Hold a dialogue on CSR with stakeholders more than once a year Active dialogue with (more than once/year) All Mitsubishi Electric Group companies stakeholders Hold dialogues with stakeholders through the general meeting of shareholders, corporate strategy presentation meetings, financial (Japan, overseas) results presentation meetings, individual meetings and other such information meetings, and IR activities in Japan and overseas Provide proper information to directors at the proper time, conduct a review of the board of directors, and analyze and evaluate the review Mitsubishi Electric Corporate management Provide orientation training and other compliance education and training to directors and executive officers as appropriate at the with a sound oversight proper time function Establish internal regulations and frameworks needed to ensure proper operations of the Mitsubishi Electric Group, conduct an internal All Mitsubishi Electric Group audit of their operational status, and regularly report the results of the audit to the audit committee via the executive officer in charge companies of auditing (Japan, overseas) All Mitsubishi Electric Group Compliance training on a Provide compliance education that utilizes diverse methods, on a continuous basis companies continuous basis (Japan, overseas) Maintain a 100% attendance in e-learning programs on compliance (maintain rate of 100%) Mitsubishi Electric Provide practical training in reference to case studies that reflect the characteristics of each business, on a continuous basis Fair competition All Mitsubishi Electric Group Identify issues that accompany the systematization of rules concerning contacts with other companies in the same business and (prevention of antimonopoly companies enhance the operation of the system (Japan, overseas) violations) Strengthen responses to vertical restraints and regulations of antimonopoly laws Corruption prevention All Mitsubishi Electric Group Enhance bribery prevention measures: provide bribery prevention education (onsite education, e-learning programs), conduct companies (prevention of bribery) monitoring with an eye to the establishment of regulations and guidelines (Japan, overseas) CSR procurement Formulate CSR procurement guidelines, and obtain a compliance agreement from suppliers targeted for the FY2019 survey (100%) Mitsubishi Electric, Mitsubishi (environment, quality, human Electric Group companies (Japan, Expand the scope of the survey of overseas suppliers to Europe and the U.S. some overseas) supply chain rights, compliance, etc.) 26 CSR Materiality Realize a Sustainable Society Energy-saving throughout entire buildings creating new value by combining the Mitsubishi Electric Group s comprehensive strengths and advanced technologies At the COP21* held in 2015 (the meeting that produced the Paris Agreement), 175 Parties agreed to an overall target of holding the increase in the global average temperature to well below 2° C above pre-industrial levels, and to a non-binding target of limiting the temperature increase to 1.5° C, by 2025 or 2030. To achieve this target, it is vital to reduce CO₂ emissions from all aspects of our activities̶from households and oﬃces to transportation and factories. The Mitsubishi Electric Group contributes to promoting energy-saving, highly eﬃcient buildings by combining multiple technologies and applying leading-edge technologies in the area of the operation and control of facilities in oﬃce buildings and other buildings. * COP21: 21st Session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. An international conference for discussing climate change issues. The value of ZEB supplied by Mitsubishi Electric, the ﬁrst ZEB planner among Japanese electronics manufacturers ZEB by Mitsubishi Electric ZEB stands for net Zero Energy Building, and refers to Elevators buildings that achieve signiﬁcant energy savings, with Air and conditioners escalators Facilities included standards diﬀering by country. Energy creation in the calculation of and power receiving Water the energy-consumption The Mitsubishi Electric Group s ZEB realize these transformation facilities Ventilators heaters performance of ZEB signiﬁcant energy savings by comprehensively incorporating Lighting fixtures not only highly energy-eﬃcient building facilities (air conditioners, ventilators, lighting ﬁxtures, water heaters , Photovoltaic generation system Power receiving facilities Energy visualization elevators, escalators), but also energy creation and power Energy-saving support services BEMS receiving/transformation facilities such as photovoltaic generation facilities, energy visualization achieved by BEMS* Operational support Facility maintenance and other such systems, and energy-saving support services. * BEMS (Building Energy Management System): A system that visualizes and centrally manages the energy usage of an entire building. Achieving energy savings through Facilities included in the calculation of the energy-consumption Energy creation synergies between diverse equipment performance of ZEB and technologies Air conditioners Reduction Photovoltaic generation system To eﬀectively reduce a building s energy consumption, it is vital Ventilators Plus to achieve coordination between the know-how that the Lighting Air fixtures conditioners Mitsubishi Electric Group has developed over many years and Ventilators Water the hardware and software of the diverse electrical equipment heaters Lighting fixtures that has been installed in the building to date. In addition to Elevators and Water heaters escalators Elevators and escalators deploying Mitsubishi Electric-brand high-eﬃciency facilities, the installation of facilities including photovoltaic generation equipment to create energy also contributes to signiﬁcantly Significant reduction in annual energy consumption reducing the annual energy consumption of buildings. How a building s energy consumption can be reduced Mitsubishi Electric s advanced technology : Issues going forward DC distribution system allows energy to be In the future, energy conservation is expected to steadily fully utilized advance in all aspects of society on a global scale. To address the energy-saving issues that buildings and homes The Mitsubishi Electric Group has succeeded in realizing are likely to face, the Mitsubishi Electric Group will deploy eﬃcient power supply with its DC distribution system, the the technologies and know-how that are its strengths as a latest in its power receiving and distributing facilities. comprehensive electronics manufacturer in the development Normally, OA equipment and electric facilities receive AC of ZEB and ZEH (net Zero Energy Houses), expanding its role power, but they actually operate by internally converting the in these areas. By further boosting energy-saving performance AC power to DC power. As a result, loss or waste is and using technologies that create a best mix of renewable generated in the conversion process. The DC distribution energies, the Group aims to contribute to the creation of system, by contrast, directly supplies DC power, eliminating low-carbon societies, bringing an active role in the global any conversion loss or waste. Linking the system to a arena into its sights. photovoltaic generation system that generates DC power and storage batteries that store and supply DC power will realize eﬃcient power supply, and is therefore expected to contribute to the realization of ZEB. 27 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Photovoltaic generation system Air conditioners DC distribution system Ventilators BEMS Lighting fixtures Water heaters Elevators and escalators Schematic diagram of ZEB case study CASE（Shirasagi Denki Kogyo Co., Ltd. head oﬃce building) Realizing 75% energy savings In February 2018, the Mitsubishi Electric Group installed facilities and systems that included air conditioners, ventilators, lighting ﬁxtures, elevators, photovoltaic generation facilities, BEMs and a DC distribution system in Shirasagi Denki Kogyo s head oﬃce, which had been rebuilt in a new location after the original building was damaged in the Kumamoto Earthquake. These installations have realized signiﬁcant energy savings and enabled the building to achieve Nearly ZEB * status. * Evaluation based on Building-Housing Energy-eﬃciency Labeling System formulated by the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport Shirasagi Denki Kogyo Co., Ltd. head oﬃce building VOICE（Customer） During the Kumamoto Earthquake, our oﬃce building suﬀered considerable damage, to the point that it had half collapsed. We therefore had to build a new oﬃce building. We decided to build the new building based on the twin concepts of constructing a disaster-resistant building that could be used as an evacuation center by our employees and their families in a disaster, and deploying ZEB technologies to minimize energy consumption. Examining several examples of ZEB, we developed a strong interest in Mitsubishi Electric's DC distribution system, and decided to adopt it. Our new oﬃce building, which incorporates a BCP (business continuity plan) and environmental measures, is in a way symbolic of our Mr. Yukihiro Numata forward-looking attitude. We will continue to pursue whatever we can do as a company for President, Shirasagi Denki the beneﬁt of our employees and their families, and for the future of the world. Kogyo Co., Ltd. VOICE（In charge of ZEB engineering） A ZEB is not something that can be realized with one superior building facility. It involves the appropriate combination and optimal control of diverse facilities. It also requires a good coordination between energy-saving designs that are incorporated into the building itself and actual facilities. Therefore, ZEB engineers need to be knowledgeable not only about the facilities that their own department is responsible for designing, but also facilities that are handled by other departments. Cooperation with relevant departments outside the company, such as companies that undertake building design and construction, is also vital to the realization of ZEB. Tadashi Ishio This recent project made me keenly aware that we are able to supply outstanding ZEB Energy Management Technologies Group , precisely because of Mitsubishi Electric's wealth of building facility products. We hope to Total Building System Solution & Engineering Dept. 2, Domestic Marketing Division, Building contribute to the realization of sustainable societies by oﬀering even better ZEBs going forward. Systems Group, Mitsubishi Electric Corporation 28 CSR Materiality CSR Materiality Provide Safety, Security, and Comfort Towards the solution of traﬃc issues via autonomous driving technologies ‒ bringing together core Mitsubishi Electric technologies Solution of social problems Traﬃc accidents and traﬃc congestion are responsible for enormous economic by means of autonomous and social losses. In Japan, where a declining birthrate and an aging population driving technologies are seeing accidents caused by elderly drivers becoming a social problem, these are urgent issues. The Mitsubishi Electric Group is working to realize high-precision Reduction of traﬃc accidents autonomous driving systems through the fusion of two technologies: self-sensing Easing of traﬃc congestion etc. driving technologies and network-based driving technologies. Autonomous driving mechanisms and the Mitsubishi Electric Group technologies that support them Self-sensing driving technologies Network-based Onboard sensors and vehicle control technologies driving technologies ! Self-sensing driving technologies will enable vehicles to operate autonomously using a variety of onboard sensors, including cameras, millimeter-wave radar and sonar. Applying sensing technologies fostered in a broad range of ﬁelds, the Mitsubishi Electric Group is working to develop new products that assist drivers in recognition, judgment, and vehicle operation. Mitsubishi Electric will continue to polish these technologies into the future, at the same time as advancing applied development in the area of integrated control systems that will be key to the Self-sensing realization of safer, more secure and more comfortable driving technologies autonomous driving, with the company s core AI technology Maisart as a central element. VOICE（In charge of autonomous driving technology development） In seeking to realize autonomous driving systems, in addition to considering the safety, security and comfort of passengers, I believe that it will also be important to realize vehicle control that is able to reproduce natural driving, operating the vehicle as an experienced driver might. This would further boost the sense of security and the comfort of the passengers. Given this, Mitsubishi Electric is advancing development that will enable us to integrate self-sensing driving and network-based driving with a high degree of sophistication. We are engaging in a process of trial and error in order to ensure reliability in actual road environments by means of tests on public roads using our experimental vehicles. Changes in the environment of the domestic and overseas automotive industry are accelerating, and Fumiaki Kadoya one of the demands on us is to further advance and distinguish driver assist and autonomous driving Advanced Safety System Development Sect., ADAS Business & Development Dept., technologies. Against this background, it is my goal to make our automotive society an even more Automotive Electronics Development appealing one through the advanced technologies that only Mitsubishi Electric is able to realize. Center, Mitsubishi Electric Corporation 29 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Three-dimensional space position data (point cloud) acquired via MMS* High-precision 3D maps Sign Automatic generation Lane link Lane division line Shoulder edge * Mitsubishi Mobile Mapping System Quasi-Zenith Satellite System High-precision 3D maps High-precision positioning data Road status data Network-based driving technologies Network-based driving technologies are new technologies that seek to enable more precise autonomous vehicle operation by means of cooperation between the vehicle and infrastructure in the surrounding environment. In order to realize these systems, a diverse range of technologies must be integrated, allowing us to make use, apart from the vehicle itself, of systems in the surrounding environment including technologies that gather precise position data from satellites, high-precision three-dimensional maps, and intelligent transport systems. The Quasi-Zenith Satellite System: Satellites that provide high-precision position data Three satellites of the Quasi-Zenith Satellite System were trials of autonomous driving on Japanese expressways from launched in 2017. Mitsubishi Electric was responsible for the September 2017, and we have demonstrated that the use of design and manufacture of this satellite system, which provides high-precision positioning terminals that receive position data high-precision position data services. The use of these services signals from the Quasi-Zenith Satellite System makes it possible to will make it possible to realize autonomous driving in a range of identify the position of the subject vehicle at the level road environments and conditions in which visibility is poor, such of centimeters. as heavy fog or snow. Mitsubishi Electric commenced proving High-precision 3D maps Anticipatory data provision Dynamic maps are essential to accurately identifying the position Anticipatory data provision is a system that assists in making of the subject vehicle on a map. In addition to static data on advance lane changes, etc. by providing the driver and the vehicle lanes and road edges, these digital maps include dynamic data with information that cannot be obtained from the vehicle itself, that changes moment to moment, such as data on congestion including data on accidents ahead, data on traﬃc congestion, and and traﬃc signals. The Mitsubishi Electric Group is continuing data on traﬃc regulations (anticipatory data). research and testing in this area, and has been commissioned by Mitsubishi Electric is working towards the practical realization a government agency to conduct and manage large-scale proving of anticipatory data provision, conducting test course trials in the trials towards the creation of digital maps. In addition, in June provision of support for lane changes by providing autonomously 2017, Mitsubishi Electric joined together with an industrial operating vehicles with anticipatory data for each lane using innovation network, mapping companies, surveying companies, road-to-vehicle communication. and Japanese automotive manufacturers to launch Dynamic Map Platform Co., Ltd., which is moving ahead with the formulation of data to create a dynamic map platform covering approximately 30,000km of Japanese expressways and vehicle roads. Technological synergy × open innovation: blazing a path to the future Autonomous driving technologies necessitate the integration In October 2017, we formed a partnership with Holland s of diverse and wide-ranging element technologies. The HERE Technologies. By bringing together HERE s global Mitsubishi Electric Group is advancing initiatives to create high-precision maps and cloud-based position data services and innovative technologies, for example by forming project Mitsubishi Electric s high-precision positioning technologies, our teams across diﬀerent divisions of the company and aim is to provide user-friendly position data services. promoting open innovation that crosses industry boundaries. The Japanese government is seeking to realize In March 2017, we successfully developed a technology fully-autonomous driving with no human input on expressways able to eﬃciently create and modify high-precision 3D maps by 2025. By means of these initiatives, the Mitsubishi Electric using AI and Mitsubishi Mobile Mapping System Group is contributing to the realization of a society that allows (MMS) technology. safer, more secure and more comfortable lifestyles. 30 CSR Materiality CSR Materiality Respect Human Rights and Promote the Active Participation of Diverse Human Resources The Mitsubishi Electric Group respects the human rights of all peoples in countries and regions where it engages in business, based on a conscious awareness of its widespread interaction with people and society. Eﬀorts are also made to ensure employee diversity and occupational health and safety, as well as to promote work style reforms that maximize the potential of diverse human resources. Message from Management The Mitsubishi Electric Group sets forth employee codes of conduct on human rights in the Corporate Ethics and Compliance Statement, which was formulated in 2001. The Group has provided employee training on the importance and mental attitude regarding human rights through various programs and activities such as the Mitsubishi Electric Going Up Campaign, which aims to realize a Inclusive Society*. The Mitsubishi Electric Human Rights Policy, which was established in September 2017, sets forth the Group s commitment to further promote proper responses to human rights issues in line with international human rights norms. Based on this policy, we will strive to ensure human rights due diligence and to establish a mechanism for responding to grievances. Human rights issues pertain to workers, customers, local communities and all other aspects of society, and the scope of the issues extend globally and through all supply chains. Thus, all employees need to participate in addressing them, with cooperation among all departments. Toward this end, we need to realize a further change in employee awareness and to take measures to create a culture that respects human rights, so that each employee can recognize human rights issues as their own and take appropriate action. The initiatives of the Mitsubishi Electric Group have just begun. By receiving advice from experts on human rights issues and human rights organizations, and by Mitsuharu Kiwada maintaining communication with diverse stakeholders, we will ensure that the Chief of the Corporate Administration Division Group s initiatives will truly contribute to solving human rights issues. Mitsubishi Electric Corporation * Inclusive Society: A society where everyone respects and accepts each other Formulation of the Human Rights Policy and Future Roadmap In September 2017, the Mitsubishi Electric Group formulated human rights due diligence initiatives by identifying and the Mitsubishi Electric Human Rights Policy according to the evaluating impacts on human rights (a human rights impact spirit of the Corporate Mission and Seven Guiding Principles. assessment) at all company sites. We will also explore ways The objective is to promote greater awareness of human to improve the mechanism for receiving grievances from rights and deal properly with related issues, thereby ensuring those who have suﬀered a human rights violation and provide that the Group s business activities do not negatively impact an avenue for relief (a grievance handling mechanism). At the on human rights. In particular, we are implementing same time, all suppliers along our supply chain will be measures that prevent and mitigate adverse impacts on requested to strengthen their human rights responses as part human rights by ensuring human rights due diligence that of their initiatives to promote CSR procurement. conforms with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and In ﬁscal 2020 and beyond, we will promote these Human Rights. Moreover, the Group is creating a corrective initiatives further, and plan to create a system that also mechanism in the event it comes to light that a Group includes the supply chain in preventing and mitigating adverse company s action or involvement has inﬂicted an adverse impacts on human rights. The program will include follow-up impact on human rights. evaluations of the initiatives for human rights responses. In ﬁscal 2019, the Mitsubishi Electric Group will launch 31 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Creating a Working Environment where Work-Life Balance can be Achieved by Everyone through a Work Style Reforms Since ﬁscal 2017, Mitsubishi Electric promotes a Work Style In February 2017, the President s Forum on Work Style Reforms as a management policy, and strives to create a Reforms was launched, in which the president of Mitsubishi working environment where work-life balance can be Electric makes a round of all oﬃces to personally explain the achieved by everyone by creating a corporate culture that objectives and importance of the initiative to all employees. places even greater emphasis on achievements and By directly engaging employees in dialogue with the eﬃciency and reforming employees' attitudes toward work. president and absorbing their views, requests and opinions Each department, organization and oﬃce implements speciﬁc about issues in promoting Work Style Reforms in each oﬃce measures that promote the Work Style Reforms based on the and about corporate matters, the forum aims to disseminate following four perspectives. even more eﬀective measures. Four perspectives on Work Style Reforms Improvement of productivity Further pursuit of Examples of oﬃce-speciﬁc activities by streamlining operations achievements and efficiency ・Thorough elimination of waste based on ・Establishment of an awareness to produce Lectures for management the principles of JIT* Kaizen activities results within a limited amount of time (reduction of conferences, documents and personnel by external lecturers travel time, review of operational ・Development of a scheme to evaluate productivity and efficiency, and processes, etc.) strengthening the implementation of Establishment of conference ・Increased utilization of IT for operational efficiency proper evaluation rules (50 minutes as a rule, no meetings to be held after 5 p.m., etc.) Promotion of communication Work-life fulfillment in the workplace Introduction of concentrated work times ・Sharing the awareness that a “fulfilling ・Sharing the status of operations in the life” and “rewarding work” are closely workplace through daily greetings and related communication Introduction of Refresh ・Applying the knowledge and ・Promotion of work-load alleviation through Wednesday to promote mental/physical health that are gained mutual cooperation between individuals through having a fulfilling life to achieving and departments, as well as reviews of work-life balance a rewarding work experience work allocation Poster for in-house dissemination of information * JIT (Just in Time): Small-group activities that aim to increase productivity by thoroughly eliminating operational ineﬃciencies. TOPICS Dialogues with outside experts for eﬀective human rights initiatives To ensure that the Mitsubishi Electric Group implements viable initiatives to address human rights issues, we hold dialogues with experts and human rights NGOs to gather their advice on human rights initiatives. In ﬁscal 2018, the Group had the opportunity to hold a dialogue with Amnesty International Japan, and gained advice on establishing a mechanism for handling grievances. Also emphasized was the importance of addressing human right issues from the perspective of human rights in the broad sense of the term such as long working hours, gender equality and so forth. and not from the perspective of individual issues. Dialogue with Amnesty International Japan We will continue to hold dialogues with stakeholders to steer the Group s human rights initiatives in the right direction. Mitsubishi Electric Going Up Seminar on diversity In Japan, the upcoming 2020 has triggered a growing demand for initiatives to promote greater understanding of diversity and realize a inclusive society. Mitsubishi Electric has launched the Mitsubishi Electric Going Up Seminar in October 2017 with the cooperation of Mirairo Inc.*. The seminar teaches employees how to properly interact with people with disabilities, and is being held sequentially in all oﬃces so that as many employees as possible can attend. * Mirairo Inc.: A company that provides consultation services regarding universal design from the Mitsubishi Electric Going Up Seminar perspective of barrier value, or the concept of changing barriers into value 32 CSR Materiality CSR Materiality Strengthen Corporate Governance and Compliance on a Continuous Basis To realize sustained growth and increase corporate value, the Mitsubishi Electric Group works to maintain the ﬂexibility of its operations while promoting management transparency. These endeavors are supported by an eﬃcient corporate governance structure that clearly deﬁnes and reinforces the supervisory functions of management while ensuring that the company is responsive to the expectations of customers, shareholders, and all of its stakeholders. Additionally, the Mitsubishi Electric Group Corporate Governance Message from Management In recent years corporate governance in Japan has garnered strong attention, to the point that strengthening and enhancing the eﬃciency of corporate governance has become a priority issue for all companies. Mitsubishi Electric has adopted a committee system, with the separation of the management supervisory functions from the execution of business being one of its core principles. Based on this principle, the Chairman, who oversees the management supervisory functions, is separate from the President & CEO, who is head of all executive oﬃcers, and neither is a member of the nomination or compensation committees. By clearly separating the two functions, Mitsubishi Electric ensures the eﬀectiveness of its corporate governance. As also stated in the CSR Materiality, Mitsubishi Electric's drive to strengthen its corporate governance is a continuous process. To further enhance the Board of Director s business supervisory function, venues were established for supplying information to, and exchanging views with, outside directors, in FY2016. Through these venues, eﬀorts were continued in FY2018 to ensure proper and timely provision of information to the directors. The review of the Board of Directors, which is held every year to strengthen the performance of the Board of Directors, was also held again in FY2018. The review results yielded the evaluation that the Board is consistently sharing management-related information with executive oﬃcers in a proper and timely manner Shinji Harada and is making readjustments as necessary in response to the results of the review of Executive Oﬃcer the Board of Directors in order to properly fulﬁll its business supervisory function, and Mitsubishi Electric Corporation that discussions have become even more active and open compared to before. This evaluation in eﬀect endorses the performance of the Board of Directors, but further eﬀorts will be made to enhance debates and discussion by the Board, such as by expanding deliberation times. Mitsubishi Electric will continue to build an even stronger corporate governance framework, to ensure corporate management is soundly supervised by a proper oversight mechanism. General Shareholders’ Meeting Report Appointment Report Decision Making and Execution Supervision Executive Officers Board of Directors President & CEO Chairman Appointment/ Executive Vice Nomination Committee Dismissal Presidents Outside Directors Supervision (majority) Senior Vice Presidents Audit Committee Directors Reporting to Outside Directors Executive Officers (majority) Compensation Committee Outside Directors Business/Administration (majority) Divisions Corporate Governance Framework Board of Directors 33 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric recognizes that not only ethics and legal compliance, but also compliance in the wider sense of the term that includes the perspective of corporate ethics, are the foundation of the Group's continued existence. Based on this understanding, ongoing eﬀorts are being made to strengthen initiatives related to anti-trust laws, the prevention of corrupt practices and supply chain management, as priority action items. View from an Outside Director Mitsubishi Electric engages in a wide variety of businesses on a global scale. In order for the Board of Directors to oversee whether these businesses are executed properly, it is extremely important for information about management to be provided to us directors in a timely and appropriate manner. At the Board of Directors, adequately detailed information is provided for directors to supervise management, and a forum has been set up with the main objective of providing outside directors with more information about management, so I feel the information we directors receive is extremely extensive. I also get the sense that the company is actively providing us with opportunities to visit various oﬃces and plants to directly hear the opinions of workers and to obtain solid business information. The performance of the Board of the Directors is evaluated, and eﬀorts are made to improve it. A review of all members is conducted every year, where all directors can freely share their views about the operations of the Board and about how information is shared, etc. Readjustments are constantly made in response to the results of the review of the Board of Directors, and improvements have been achieved with every review, such that I feel we have become able to discuss various matters more frankly than ever before. As directors, we feel these opportunities are highly beneﬁcial to understand the current state of Mitsubishi Electric's business, and to engage us in discussions. We hope this timely and appropriate provision of management information will continue to be enhanced, so that the management supervisory functions of the Board of Directors may be Mitoji Yabunaka further strengthened. Outside Director Mitsubishi Electric Corporation Continually Strengthening Compliance The Mitsubishi Electric Group abides by the Corporate Ethics and principal approach to compliance, to all employees and are holding Compliance Statement formulated in 2001 as its basic guideline for continual training related to the standard. compliance, and recognizes the importance of ethics and legal Various learning programs on laws and regulations related to compliance as a fundamental precondition for the Group's procurement are also provided to employees in charge of continued existence. procurement activities as one aspect of supply chain management. Based on this awareness, eﬀorts are directed at strengthening In Japan, a course on material procurement laws provides guidance the compliance system, maintenance of facilities, and employee and education on the Anti-Monopoly Act, the Act against Delay in education program, to broadly promote compliance that not only Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, Etc. to Subcontractors, the encompasses legal compliance, but also includes the perspective of Construction Contractors Law, and our systems of internal checks corporate ethics. and balances. In overseas oﬃces, compliance education related to In particular, the Mitsubishi Electric Group treats preventing the procurement is provided to ensure no employee becomes involved violation of anti-trust laws and corruption prevention (preventing in bribery, embezzlement, or anything else that goes against the bribery) as important issues. We have established a set of internal principle of fair trade. In addition to the above, CSR education company regulations, strengthened education and awareness, and based on CSR Procurement Guidelines is also provided to are in the process of working on other prevention initiatives. employees in procurement departments to further strengthen CSR Reﬂecting on mistakes made in the past, we are establishing rules initiatives along the supply chain. for contacting companies in our industry, holding continual training divided by level and business headquarters, and engaging in other measures keep the prevention of antitrust violations clear in people's minds and prevent recurrences. For the prevention of bribery, we have enacted the Mitsubishi Electric Group Anti-Bribery Policy in April 2017 and spread it both inside and outside the company, as well as built internal policies for dealing with public oﬃcials and other ﬁgures, held e-learning geared toward bribery prevention and interview-based practical training with case studies included, and taken other measures to strengthen our policies. We have also distributed the Mitsubishi Electric Group Standard Working-level conference on Meeting of compliance managers for Ethics and Regulatory Compliance, a summary of our company's compliance in the China region in the Asia region 34 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Communication with stakeholders Status of Communication A strong relationship of trust with stakeholders is indispensable for conducting business activities. We provide various opportunities to help stakeholders understand the Mitsubishi Electric Group and ask for their expectations, requests, and opinions. Responsibilities Major contact Major communication Major stakeholders and issues departments opportunities Customers ・Improvement of ・Sales departments Inquiry centers (home appliances: Individual and corporate customer satisfaction ・Quality departments Customer Relations Center; building customers systems: Information Center, ・Product safety and quality etc.), sales activities, websites, showrooms, events, exhibitions, ・Customer response customer questionnaires, mass and support media / commercials Employees ・Occupational health ・Personnel Hotlines, intranets, in-house Workers related to the and safety departments bulletins, training programs, Mitsubishi Electric Group ・CSR departments meetings between management ・Respect for human rights in general and employees, employee ・Human resource development awareness surveys ・Respect for diversity Government, local ・Compliance with laws ・External affairs Participation in advisory councils governments, department and committees, participation in and regulations the activities of industrial and industrial organizations economic organizations Governmental institutions, ・Compliance with restrictions local governments and industrial organizations relevant to the business activities of the Mitsubishi ・Policy proposals Electric Group NGOs and NPOs ・Grants and partnerships ・Administration Philanthropic activities (funds, NGOs/NPOs citizens through contributions to departments foundations, volunteer activities), groups, etc. with relevance regional communities dialogues on social and to the social and environmental issues ・Dialogues on social and environmental aspects of environmental issues Mitsubishi Electric Business partners ・Materials Activities aimed at the joint ・Fair transactions departments creation of costs, information Business partners that supply raw materials sessions on CSR procurement, and parts ・CSR promotion through the BCP seminars, meetings based on supply chain the results of fair selection and evaluation of suppliers Regional communities ・Contribution to four ・Administration Contributions through business, Communities near activity philanthropic areas departments philanthropic activities (funds, Mitsubishi Electric offices (social welfare; science overseas foundations, volunteer and technology; global activities), grants to universities, environmental conservation; plant inspection tours, factory openculture, art and sports) house events Shareholders ・Increase in corporate value ・IR departments Financial results presentation Shareholders, investment meeting (4 times yearly), general ・Proper redistribution institutions, investors, meetings of shareholders (once of profits etc. directly or indirectly a year), IR events/individual ・Information disclosure meetings, websites (IR resource possessing Mitsubishi Electric shares library), responses to interviews, ・Response to ESG investments shareholder communications Others ・Cooperation in ・R&D departments Industry-academia cooperation in Academic institutions and creating innovation research, stakeholder dialogues research institutions (once a year) ・Joint studies Future generations ・Provision of ・Administration Inquiry centers, philanthropic education opportunities departments programs, factory inspection tours, ・Overseas grants via foundations, events foundations 35 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Results of Reader Surveys Questionnaire-based Survey Conducted on CSR Reports The Mitsubishi Electric Group conducted a survey with the responders offering many positive options. questionnaire among its stakeholders in Japan regarding They also raised certain issues. The Group takes these the Group's CSR initiatives and CSR Report 2017, resulting points seriously and will adjust based on them in future in responses from 600 individuals. activities, with the Group as a whole seeking to push A portion of the survey results is presented here. The further forward on its CSR efforts. Group's initiatives were quite well-thought of overall, Survey summary and partial results [Period] [Main questions] December 2017 ◦Is senior management pursuing CSR initiatives in earnest? [Questionnaire responders] ◦Does the company have the framework that will allow ◦Japan it to implement CSR efforts as a total organization? ◦600 persons ◦General population nationwide, men and women ◦Are company initiatives truly moving forward? aged 15 or older (people with a strong interest ◦Is the company engaging in dialogue with the relevant in the environment and CSR) parties in its orbit? ◦Does the company consider ease of comprehension and access to information? ● ◦Please Expectations Mitsubishiall of theselect Electric Group toitems those in Sustainable address the the report thatGoals Development made (SDGs) a particular impression 1650on you 1700 (e.g. 1750evoked1800 positive 1850 1900 Goal 7：feelings, AFFORDABLE AND sparked CLEAN ENERGY interest, felt you could approve1868 of it, Goal 6：etc.). CLEAN WATER AND SANITATION 1858 Goal◦ 3：A reHEALTH GOOD theAND Mitsubishi WELL-BEING Electric Group's initiatives1828 enough Goal 14：when LIFE BELOWit comes WATER to crucial CSR issues? 1822 Goal 17：PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALS ◦Which SDGs do you wish the Mitsubishi Electric 1821 Group Goal 15：LIFE ON LAND to achieve? 1807 Goal 12：RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION 1806 Goal 13：CLIMATE ACTION 1805 Total rating Commitment Managerial determination 8：DECENT WORK ● Expectations Goal ● Expectations of the of the Mitsubishi AND Mitsubishi Electric Group ECONOMIC GROWTH Electric to address Group to address the Sustainable Development the Sustainable Development 1800 Goals (SDGs) Goals (SDGs) 81.8/100 20.0 Goal 9：INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE 1650 1700 1750 1800 1796 1850 1900 15.0 16.9 Goal16：7PEACE, Goal ：AFFORDABLE JUSTICE AND AND STRONG INSTITUTIONS CLEAN ENERGY 1774 1868 Accessibility Management Easy of understanding/ 10.0 CSR implementation Goal11：6SUSTAINABLE Goal ：CLEAN WATER ANDAND CITIES COMMUNITIES SANITATION 1772 1858 access to data structure Goal 2：ZERO HUNGER 1751 5.0 Goal 3：GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING 1828 15.8 16.7 Goal 4：QUALITY EDUCATION 1717 Goal 14：LIFE BELOW WATER 1822 Goal 5：GENDER EQUALITY 1711 Goal 17：PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALS 1821 Goal 10：REDUCED INEQUALITIES 1700 Goal 15：LIFE ON LAND 1807 Engagement Reliability Goal 1：NO POVERTY 1699 【3-6-2】 Survey Dialogue Summary with people 16.3 and Partial 16.1 Results̲2 Trust/impartiality Goal 12：RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION 1806 * The graph shows the total scores of each SDG based on a score system, where large expectations is given of initiatives involved with our company 13：CLIMATE Goalpoints, four some ACTION expectations three points, low expectations two points, and little expectation 1805 one point. Total rating Commitment Managerial determination Goal 8：DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH 1800 81.8/ ● Evaluation Evaluation of of thetheCSRCSR materialities materialities ● Goal 9：INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE 100 20.0 1796 Sufficient Somewhat sufficient 16.9Somewhat insufficient Insufficient (%) Goal 16：PEACE, JUSTICE AND STRONG INSTITUTIONS 1774 0 20 15.0 40 60 80 100 Accessibility Management Goal 11：SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES 1772 Easy of understanding/ a. Realize a 10.0 CSR implementation accesssociety sustainable to data 41.3 48.8 structure 7.8 2.0 Goal 2：ZERO HUNGER 1751 5.0 15.8 16.7 Goal 4：QUALITY EDUCATION 1717 b. Provide safety, security, and comfort 43.7 45.0 9.0 2.3 Goal 5：GENDER EQUALITY 1711 c. Respect human rights and promote the active 40.2 45.5 11.8 2.5 Goal 10：REDUCED INEQUALITIES 1700 participation of diverse Goal 1：NO POVERTY human resources Engagement Reliability 1699 d. Strengthen corporate 16.3 16.1 Dialogue governanceand with people compliance 41.8 Trust/impartiality 46.8 8.8 2.5 * The graph shows the total scores of each SDG based on a score system, where large expectations is given on ainvolved continuous basisour company with of initiatives four points, some expectations three points, low expectations two points, and little expectation one point. 36 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Interviews with Experts The Mitsubishi Electric Group has held interviews with materiality and the experts' expectations of the Group experts with profound knowledge who play an active regarding the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), role in their respective fields to hear their opinions on ESG (environment, social and governance) investment, the Group's CSR initiatives in light of the latest CSR and other such trends in Japan and overseas. trends. Staff responsible for driving CSR initiatives and In ﬁscal 2018, we received opinions from overseas representatives of departments closely involved with CSR experts and multiple asset management institutions and efforts interviewed the experts in person. The interviews incorporated these global and investor viewpoints into mainly targeted the Mitsubishi Electric Group's CSR our CSR activities. Chief Researcher, Daiwa Institute of Research Ltd.; Co-CEO, Japan Sustainable Investment Forum (JSIF) Mariko Kawaguchi Field of specialization: CSR as a whole, ESG Investment, and Ethical Consumption Opinions offered: The ESG investment market is expanding rapidly. As this market emphasizes longterm perspectives, the Mitsubishi Electric Group should strengthen its formulation of medium to long-term strategies and initiatives. The criticism that Japan's technical intern trainee system is a modern-day system of slavery should be regarded as a domestic human rights issue. While Mitsubishi Electric may not directly employ technical intern trainees, it should consider responding appropriately to this problem, as they may be employed within the Group's supply chain. Representative, Sustainavision Ltd. Takeshi Shimotaya Field of specialization: Human rights issues, CSR trends in Europe Opinions offered: It is important to ensure that the human rights policies established in fiscal 2018 are disseminated across all companies in the Mitsubishi Electric Group. Human rights issues should be conveyed in an easy-to-understand manner by exposing all personnel, from the management to employees, to situations that involve human rights issues. Human rights issues largely differ by region. Responses need to be based upon listening to the voices of stakeholders in each region. Mitsubishi Electric evaluates suppliers based on a self-assessment questionnaire, but it should also strengthen its training programs for suppliers, so they can function even more efficiently. It is admirable that the company actively incorporates the voices of its stakeholders in its CSR activities, but from now on it should also consider people in vulnerable positions who cannot speak directly to the company. 37 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Director and Head of Business Development Lloyd's Register Japan Hidemi Tomita Field of specialization: C  SR in general (has engaged in the design of various standards, such as the Tokyo 2020 Olympic and Paralympic Games Sustainable Sourcing Code, ISO20400, and GRI) Opinions offered: My impression is that the Mitsubishi Electric Group addresses CSR seriously and sincerely. I hope that the company will continue to strive to participate in global initiatives and comply with international standards. To contribute more to achieving the SDGs, the company should tighten the focus of its initiatives. Although it may be difficult to observe the rules of supply chain management a hundred percent, the company needs to clearly communicate to business partners the standards it aims to achieve. Communication is instrumental to strengthening the cooperative framework with business partners. In accordance with international procurement standards, the company needs to keep a close eye on the supply chain, from upstream to downstream, to ensure that no human rights issue occurs in relation to its installation work. Executive Director Shared Value Initiative Justin Bakule Field of specialization: C  SV* (based in the U.S.) Opinions offered: As a company that strives to be a leading global green company, it is desirable for the Mitsubishi Electric Group to establish a clear relationship between its environmental and social goals and activities and its business performance, and to present a clear picture of how these initiatives contribute to sales and profits. The four materialities are highly apt and serve an indispensable role in the Group's effort to fulfill its social responsibilities. Among the CSR materialities, the company's initiatives for realizing a sustainable society can be expected to contribute to the SDGs through energy conservation, efficiency improvement and emissions reductions. Toward this end, I hope that the company will play a leading role in developing the necessary technologies. The materiality of providing safety, security and comfort is related to SDG 11 pertaining to sustainable cities and communities, and is an area where the Mitsubishi Electric Group can demonstrate its strengths. Expectations are particularly high in the transportation system, urban planning and emergency network sectors, where there is strong demand from public institutions and enterprises. * CSV: Creating Shared Value. This is a strategy for balancing corporate economic profit activities and creating social value (resolving social issues). 38 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Founder & Chief First Penguina Wong Lai Yong Field of specialization: C  SR in Asia, community engagement, developing and providing youth educational programs at First Penguin (based in Malaysia) Opinions offered: With overseas sales accounting for close to 50%, I expect a further strengthening of global initiatives and information disclosure. CSR issues of concern in the countries of Asia differ according to each country's stage of development, population of migrant workers, and environmental conditions. The company should explore CSR activities and employee education that matches the region. In developing countries where the level of education and awareness of industrial health and safety are not necessarily high, the company needs to construct a management system for industrial health and safety. Toward realizing gender equality, I would like to see the company define key performance indicators to establish specific goals for women's active participation, education for female employees and the appointment of female employees to management positions. The company's process of identifying and evaluating the CSR materiality from both internal and external perspectives is excellent. Furthermore, the four materiality that have been identified have highest relevance to the entire Mitsubishi Electric Group. From now on, I hope the company will communicate even more actively with stakeholders overseas and reflect their views in its activities. In Asia, the rising level of education is expected to also raise people's awareness of consumer rights. The company should therefore continue its commitment to lend an ear to the voices of civil society. Major opinions from investors concerning ESG ※ Views were received from a number of asset management institutions. ⃝ ESG is considered necessary for gaining a general picture of the company and for evaluating its values. ⃝W  e attach particular importance to ESG initiatives that are implemented across the entire Group on the global scale and throughout its supply chains. ⃝E  ven if a company engages in activities that promote ESG, insufficient information disclosure will reflect poorly on the company. Consequently, the Group should proactively disclose information. ⃝ In recent years, companies throughout the world have been trending toward establishing voluntary rules concerning ESG, but Japan is lagging behind. Japanese companies need to actively participate in this trend. ⃝ We place high expectations on the strong commitment of top management. ⃝ Amid a general decline in the R&D expenses of Japanese companies, we place high hopes on strategic investments. ⃝C  ompanies that have a broad range of businesses should present their priority fields and corporate characteristics in an easy-to-understand manner in the form of strategies. The electric industry is particularly expected to make a significant contribution to environmental businesses. ⃝W  e eliminate companies that respond inappropriately to human rights and other such issues from consideration for investment. ⃝ In future, we will consider investing in companies that contribute to achieving the SDGs. 39 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Dialogues with Experts From left to right, Mitsuharu Kiwada, Chief of the Corporate Administration Division, Mitsubishi Electric Corporation, Nobuyuki Okuma, Senior Vice President, Mitsubishi Electric Corporation, Masaki Sakuyama, President&CEO, Mitsubishi Electric Corporation, Kaoru Nemoto Director, United Nations Information Centre, Mariko Kawaguchi, Chief Researcher, Daiwa Institute of Research Ltd., Co-CEO, Japan Sustainable Investment Forum (JSIF), Takeshi Shimotaya, Representative, Sustainavision Ltd. (February, 2018) We held a dialogue on CSR initiatives with guest experts for year, we gained extensive knowledge about SDGs, and the third time. Three guests once again participated in the subsequently incorporated them into our management recent occasion and offered their views on the latest CSR strategies. Further beyond to future society, we trends, as well as their opinions and suggestions regarding exchanged views on how the Mitsubishi Electric Group their expectations of the Mitsubishi Electric Group. could provide effective solutions to social issues, such as These dialogues with experts provide an important those concerning the global environment, resources and opportunity for Mitsubishi Electric to promote CSR energy, and human rights, through its core businesses. perspectives as an integral part of management. Last Important Opinions and Suggestions Offered by Our Guest Experts Embrace diversity to create a society that leaves no one behind I sense a strong commitment in the Mitsubishi Electric Group to promote the SDGs through its core businesses. Given a situation where the numbers of natural disasters caused by climate change have doubled between 2015 and 2016, the population of starving people is increasing, and some 800 million people are undernourished, the company has a large role to play as a comprehensive electronics manufacturer. In 2020, Mitsubishi Electric will celebrate its 100th anniversary. There are many long-running companies in Japan, and what the SDGs aim for is probably deeply ingrained in the culture of Japanese companies. In the future, I hope that companies augment the traditional Japanese principle of sampo-yoshi, which seeks a three-way benefit among sellers, buyers and society, and pursue a fiveway benefit with the inclusion of achieving benefits for the future and for the earth. The SDGs uphold the commitment to leave no one behind. It is time to once Director, again make sure the company is open to all minorities, including disabled people United Nations Information Centre and LGBTs. Women's active participation has also yet to see progress. Using their abilities in the workplace translates to the possibility of connecting their Kaoru Nemoto needs to new businesses. I hope that the Mitsubishi Electric Group will engage in management based on an awareness that diversity breeds corporate energy. 40 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Create value not only by developing elemental technologies but also by combining businesses This is my third year participating in this dialogue, and I am once again impressed with the sincere attitude with which the Mitsubishi Electric Group promptly adopts the suggestions it receives and reports on the outcome at the next dialogue. I think the company has also come to master the method of information dissemination. The ESG (environment, social and governance) investment market in Japan is rapidly expanding. This expansion was triggered by the active engagement of the Government Pension Investment Fund (GPIF), but ESG investment has moved into the mainstream at an increasing pace from the beginning of 2018, with the launch of ESG Financial Meetings among leading figures in banks, securities companies and other financial institutions hosted by the Ministry of the Environment. Within Chief Researcher, Daiwa Institute of this development, the SDGs have increased their importance as pillars for Research Ltd.; evaluating ESG investing. Co-CEO, Japan Sustainable Investment Forum (JSIF) The Mitsubishi Electric Group is in a position to demonstrate its strengths as a comprehensive electronics manufacturer. In doing so, it is important to provide Mariko Kawaguchi not only high-level elemental technologies, but also systems that bring various businesses together. I have expectations that the company will reinforce its broad range of businesses by the process of addition, and further develop them by the power of multiplication. Keep a firm eye on human rights to the very end of the supply chain I sense a difference in human rights awareness between leading companies in Europe and Japanese companies. In Europe, modern-day slavery, such as forced labor and human trafficking, is a major issue, and in the U.K., the Modern Slavery Act was enacted in March 2015. It is clear that further initiatives and information disclosure will continue to be pursued in the future. The human rights issue is related to all of the SDGs, and respect for human rights must underlie all corporate activities. From here on, it is essential to disseminate the concept of human rights so that all employees proceed toward the same goal. It is also effective to establish targets for the number of participants in training programs or number of people acquiring a proper understanding of human rights. For a company to acquire a perspective on human rights, it must communicate with stakeholders and learn what they are thinking. It must also pay heed to Representative, Sustainavision Ltd. people who have no direct stake in the company, such as refugees, immigrants, and indigenous peoples. In plants overseas, the company must pay careful attention to ensure that no relevant supplier uses forced labor or fails to duly Takeshi Shimotaya consider refugees and immigrants. It is of vital importance to prioritize and assess risks along the supply chain. In response to the dialogues As a goal toward fiscal 2021, the year of the Mitsubishi Electric Group's 100th anniversary, we have set forth a growth target of consolidated net sales of ¥5.0 trillion or more and an operating profit ratio of 8% or more. However, to attain a higher level of presence, we must not only achieve our financial targets, but we must also be a company that is constantly needed by society and that makes a meaningful contribution to it. Therefore, at the Mitsubishi Electric Group, we are placing CSR initiatives at the foundations of our corporate management. We will take to heart the views we have received from our guest experts Senior Vice President Mitsubishi Electric Corporation on issues related to human rights, diversity, the supply chain, and ESG investment, and once again integrate them into our management initiatives. Nobuyuki Okuma We thank you for your valuable input today. 41 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Measures for Internal Dissemination The following initiatives have been implemented to ensure CSR has reached every part of our company. CSR Lectures for Executives Lecture presentations are held by experts who are asked Electric executives and members of the CSR Committee. to speak about changes in social perspectives and the These lectures are a good opportunity to reconfirm the latest industrial trends concerning CSR to Mitsubishi importance of CSR to the executives. CSR Lectures for executives (1) CSR Lectures for executives (2) Sharing of CSR Information in Conferences of Mitsubishi Electric Group Administrative Managers Twice a year, general managers of the administrative departments of Mitsubishi Electric Group companies in Japan gather in a conference to discuss compliance and other related matters. In response to the increasing importance of CSR in recent years, the conferences are now not only a forum for sharing information on Groupwide CSR policies and best practices related to CSR, but are also an opportunity for the managers to think about the significance of CSR to each company. Through these conferences, continued efforts will be made to raise the CSR level of the entire Group. Conference of Administrative Managers of Group Companies CSR Training for New Employees Every year, CSR training is held for new employees of and to instill the importance of addressing quality and Mitsubishi Electric, to deepen their understanding of CSR environmental issues. The new employees learn that CSR as a basic foundation of corporate management, to ensure must be practiced by each employee in their daily duties. ethics and legal compliance in their daily operations, Implementing CSR Training for New Employees (1) Implementing CSR Training for New Employees (2) 42 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric CSR Manager Training Continuing from fiscal 2017, Mitsubishi Electric once again initiatives, the participants gained a greater awareness of held training in fiscal 2018 for 140 CSR managers from the their specific role as CSR managers in their daily operations. company's offices and affiliates in Japan. Through lectures From fiscal 2019, CSR training for general employees and group discussions on the basic principles of CSR, will be implemented via CSR managers to disseminate social demands, and the Mitsubishi Electric Group's CSR further understanding of CSR. CSR Manager Training (1) CSR Manager Training (2) Promoting Understanding of CSR through In-house Newsletters The Mitsubishi Electric Group's initiatives concerning CSR CSR 連載 CSR 企業理念と７つの行動指針の実践、 CSR CSR Based on Our Corporate Mission CSR are shared through in-house newsletters that are and Seven Guiding Principles 第1回 それが三菱電機グループのCSRです Part 1 The term Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) has become a buzzword. It refers to the practice of companies taking responsibility for how their 最近、CSR（Corporate Social Responsibility：企業の社会的 プでは、CSRを企業経営の基本と位置付け、 「企業理念」 と「7つ businesses affect communities. CSR is also defined as a way to address societal problems through business itself. Our basic CSR policy, which 責任） という言葉をよく耳にされませんか？ それは、企業が の行動指針」 をCSRの基本方針として推進しています。 is based on our Corporate Mission and Seven Guiding Principles, forms the very heart of our business. 利益を追求するだけでなく、企業活動が社会に与えるさまざ 今号から、CSRの考え方や活動事例を紹介します。皆さんも Starting with this issue, this column will spotlight our concept of CSR and introduce examples of our CSR initiatives. We hope you will take this distributed to Group companies both in Japan and まな影響に責任を持つことです。さらに事業を通じて社会が 「自身にとってのCSRとは何か」考える機会にしていただけれ as an opportunity to think about what CSR means to you. (CSR Office, Corporate Administration Division) 抱える課題の解決に取り組むことでもあります。当社グルー ばと思います。 （本総・CSR事務局） Message from Nobuyuki Okuma, Executive Officer in charge of CSR CSR担当役員 大隈Oメッセージ As time goes on, people are expecting more and more from the business community. Now that business has become more global than ever before, society is increasingly demanding that enterprises do more for the environ時代とともに、企業に対する社会の期待は一層高まり、 グローバル化の進展により、環境や人権な ment, human rights and other societal issues. As President and CEO Masaki Sakuyama often says, the Mitsubishi ど、企業への要求も変化しています。柵山Pが常々話されているように、当社グループではさまざま Electric Group contributes to society by offering solutions to these issues, and through many other types of な事業活動を通じて社会へ貢献しています。社会の課題の解決も含め、それらの活動は全て、社会 businesses, each serving as a way to fulfill social responsibility. The combined efforts of all employees constitute our への責任を果たすことでもあり、皆さん一人ひとりの活動が集まってグループ全体のCSRとなりま CSR contributions as a group. overseas. They are published in Japanese and English We are also expected to communicate our CSR initiatives to customers and the public through various channels, す。そして、それらの活動を、お客さまとのコミュニケーションやウェブ・テレビ・新聞などのメディア including the Internet, television, newspapers and more. を通して伝えていくことも求められています。社会からきちんと評価され、必要とされる企業であり To make sure that communities understand and appreciate our efforts, and continue to perceive the Mitsubishi 続けるために、CSRへの思いを皆で共有・実践していきましょう。 Electric Group as a vital company, we need to put our hearts and minds into the practice of CSR. さまざまなステークホルダーの期待に応えていかねばなりません Many stakeholders to consider そもそもCSRってどういうこと？ What is CSR? so they can be read by as many employees as possible, Shareholders 株主 顧客 Customers Enterprises can generate positive impacts 従業員 through their businesses, beginning with the Employees 企業活動を行うと、社会に商品・サービスを products and services they oﬀer to society. 提供するなどのプラス効果と、CO₂排出量増加などの However, such activities can also generate マイナス効果があるんだ。 CSRとは、さまざまなステークホルダー(右図)からの 三菱電機 行政 negative impacts, such as CO₂ emissions. Mitsubishi Government agencies 地域社会 グループ CSR is the way that enterprises work to meet the expectations of their stakeholders Local communities Electric 期待や要求に応え、プラス効果を増やし マイナス効果を減らしていくように (see chart on right) by increasing Group and they provide a valuable opportunity for each and 心がけることだよ。 positive impacts while decreasing negative impacts. The practice of CSRの実践は、世の中に必要な企業として 取引先 NGO・NPO など CSR is crucial if we want people to Business NGOs and あり続けるために重要なことなんだ。 partners NPOs keep thinking of us as a vital enterprise. ステークホルダーとは、企業に影響を与えたり、企業の影響を受けたりする利害関係者です。 The term stakeholder is defined as any party with an interest in our business, including parties that affect, or are affected by, Mitsubishi Electric. なぜCSRが話題になっているの？ Why are people talking CSRを意識しないとどうなるの？ about CSR so much now? What if we ignored CSR? every employee to think about the corporate social Promoting understanding グローバル化やネット社会の進展で、 Society has become more global and more Enterprises have to ensure that their businesses go これまで以上に、安全・安心、環境や より良い企業であるためには、環境や人権などに connected, so people are increasingly scrutinizing hand in hand with the environment and human rights, 人権の問題といった社会の課題解決に向けた 配慮して事業を進める必要があるんだ。 how enterprises address the environment, human or they could face the risk of lawsuits or boycotts, 企業の取り組みが注目されるようになったんだ。 そうしないと訴訟や不買運動など経営に大きな rights and other issues in society. This is why either of which could have grave repercussions for a だから、当社グループも、2014年4月に the Mitsubishi Electric Group formed the CSR business. Meanwhile, enterprises that actively pursue 影響が出る場合もあるんだよ。 CSR委員会を設置し、CSRのレベルアップと Committee in April 2014. It also is why we are CSR can earn greater trust among 一方で、CSRに積極的に取り組むと、 of CSR through in-house working so hard to strengthen our CSR program stakeholders and strengthen their brand 情報発信の充実に取り組んでいるよ。 企業としての信頼が高まったり、ブランド and inform people about our many socially images. Given these compelling reasons, 当社グループの具体的な活動事例を イメージの向上につながることもあるよ。 minded activities. For example, our CSR responsibility of the Group as a whole. it s clear that we need to work as hard 知ってもらうため、ウェブサイトなどを だから、皆で一緒にCSRに取り組んでいこう。 website is now providing stakeholders with as we can on CSR. 通じて、これからもどんどん世の中に more concrete cases of our socially responsible 紹介していくよ。 activities worldwide. newsletters ■今後、「つなぐ、つながる」 コーナーでCSRを取り上げていきます。次回は「CSRの７つの中核主題」を紹介します。 ■In future issues of this publication, Philanthropy Square will address a number of important CSR topics, beginning with The Seven Core Themes of CSR in the next installment. 三菱電機オフィシャルウェブサイト「CSRの取組」http://www.MitsubishiElectric.co.jp/corporate/csr/ Please visit www.MitsubishiElectric.com/company/csr vol.175 Nov.2015 MELCO PLUS vol.009 Nov.2015 CSR Considerations in Overseas Affiliates Overseas affiliates of the Mitsubishi Electric Group also issues in each region and Group-wide CSR policies with hold committees for promoting CSR and otherwise managers of the Asia, Americas and Europe regions. implement activities as needed for each region. In fiscal 2018, particular efforts were made to disseminate Group-wide CSR policies overseas. For example, a shared understanding of the CSR and SDG concepts was established at a conference for overseas departments. CSR was widely introduced in training programs for staff members of affiliates in the Asia region and programs for overseas management executives. Additionally, the company exchanged views on CSR Exchange of views with overseas managers CSR training for local staff in the Asia region In December 2017, CSR training was held in Thailand. A CSR manager from the Mitsubishi Electric head office led the training for local staff who hold managerial positions in affiliated companies in the Asia region. The program attracted 24 employees from 18 companies in six countries, including Thailand, India, Malaysia, the Philippines, Vietnam, and Indonesia. In the session themed on What CSR means to you, a number of employees made strong presentations about their thoughts on CSR and articulated their wish to spread the CSR concept more widely in their companies. Efforts will continue from now on to disseminate CSR on a global scale through such exchange forums. 43 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Corporate Governance Basic Corporate Governance Policy To realize sustained growth and increase corporate defines and reinforces the supervisory functions value, the Mitsubishi Electric Group works to maintain the of management while ensuring that the Company flexibility of its operations while promoting management is responsive to the expectations of customers, transparency. These endeavors are supported by an shareholders, and all of its stakeholders. efficient corporate governance structure that clearly IR Library Corporate Management and Governance Structure Corporate Management Structure Internal Control System In June 2003, Mitsubishi Electric became a company （A） For proper execution of duties by the Audit with a committee system. Key to this structure is the Committee, the committee's independence is ensured separation of supervisory and executive functions; the such as by assigning dedicated employees to assist Board of Directors plays a supervisory decision-making in its duties, and the expenses and responsibilities role and executive officers handle the day-to-day running incurred by the committee in the course of executing of the Company. its duties are appropriately processed according to The present Board is comprised of twelve members internal regulations. (five of whom are Outside Directors, one of whom is A framework is also in place for reporting to the a woman), who objectively supervise and advise the Audit Committee. The Internal Control Department Company's management. The Board of Directors has three keeps the Audit Committee informed of information internal bodies: the Audit, Nomination and Compensation about Mitsubishi Electric and affiliate companies, and committees. Each body has five members, the majority an internal reporting system is used to report that of whom are outside directors. The Audit Committee is information to audit committee members. supported by dedicated independent staff. Audit committee members attend executive A salient characteristic of Mitsubishi Electric's officers' meetings and other such important management structure is that the roles of Chairman of conferences, and conduct hearings and surveys the Board, who heads the supervisory function, and the of executive officers and the executive staff of President & CEO, who is head of all executive officers, are Mitsubishi Electric offices and affiliated companies. clearly separated. Additionally, neither is included among It also receives regular reports from the accounting the members of the Nomination and Compensation auditor and executive officer in charge of auditing, Committees. The clear division of supervisory and and discusses auditing policies and methods and the executive functions allows the Company to ensure implementation status and results of audits. effective Corporate corporate governance. Governance Framework （B） Internal regulations and system are in place to ensure General Shareholders’ proper operations by the Mitsubishi Electric Group. Meeting Within this system, executive officers undertake their Report Appointment Report duties on their own responsibility and hold executive Decision Making and Execution Supervision officers' meetings to deliberate on important matters. Executive Officers Board of Directors Executive officers themselves make periodic inspections of the operational status of the system, President & CEO Chairman and the Internal Control Department inspects Executive Vice Appointment/ Nomination Committee the design and operation of the internal control Dismissal Presidents Supervision Outside Directors framework and regulations, and the status of internal (majority) reporting system and then report the result to audit Senior Vice Presidents Audit Committee committee members. Directors Reporting to Executive Officers Outside Directors Furthermore, an internal auditor audits the (majority) operational status of the framework, and through an Compensation Committee executive officer in charge of auditing, regularly reports Outside Directors the results of such audits to the Audit Committee. Business/Administration (majority) Divisions Corporate Governance Framework 44 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Corporate Auditing Division and Audit Committee Acting independently, Mitsubishi Electric's Corporate well as affiliated companies are audited. Auditing Division conducts internal audits of the Company The Corporate Auditing Division, through the executive from a fair and impartial standpoint. In addition, the officer in charge of auditing, submits reports to the Audit division's activities are supported by auditors with Committee, which holds periodic meetings to exchange profound knowledge of their particular fields, assigned information and discuss auditing policies. In addition, from certain business units. the Audit Committee discusses policies and methods The Audit Committee is made up of five directors, of auditing with accounting auditors, who furnish it with three of whom are outside directors. In accordance with reports on the status and results of the audits of the the policies and assignments agreed to by the committee, Company that they themselves conduct. the performances of directors and executive officers as Providing Directors with Appropriate Information at the Appropriate Time, and Conducting Reviews of the Board with Analyses and Evaluations To strengthen the Board's capacity to supervise Company's ●M  aterials, details and methods of explanation, management, the bureaus of the Board of Directors and question-and-answer guidelines, time apportioned for each committee provide the directors with the information each proposal on the meetings necessary for supervising management, in a timely and ●O  ther mechanisms for improving the functioning of the appropriate manner. And, to further improve the Board Board of Directors of Directors' capacity to supervise management, venues ●P  oints for improvement of policies based on previous have been established for supplying information to and reviews of the Board of Directors, etc. exchanging views with outside directors, and the Company As a result of the recent review, the Board of Directors is working to further enhance the provision of managementwas evaluated for making ongoing improvements in related information to the Board of Directors itself. response to the results of previous reviews and engaging Additionally, in order to further enhance the in discussions in an even more active and open manner functioning of the Board of Directors, the Board meetings compared to before, based on the understanding that are reviewed on an annual basis, and analyses and sharing timely and appropriate management information evaluations are conducted in the following areas. with executive officers is essential for the Board to ● Frequency, scheduling, and time spent on the meetings properly fulfill its business supervisory function. This ● The information supplied in relation to discussions at evaluation in effect endorses the performance of the the meetings (quality and quantity) and the method of Board of Directors, but further efforts will be made to its provision enhance debates and discussion by the Board, such as by expanding deliberation times. Policies regarding decisions on compensation, etc. Compensation scheme for Directors and Executive Officers Policies regarding decisions on compensation, etc. will be made through resolutions by the Compensation Committee, the majority of which consists of Outside Directors. A summary of the policies is as follows. Compensation scheme for Directors 1. Directors give advice to and supervise the Company's account the contents of the Directors' duties and the management from an objective point of view, and Company's conditions, etc. therefore, the compensation scheme for Directors is 3. Directors will receive the retirement benefit upon the payment of fixed-amount compensation and the their resignation, and the retirement benefit to be retirement benefit upon resignation. paid will be set at a level decided on the basis of the 2. Directors will receive their compensation as a fixed monthly amount of compensation and the number of amount, and the compensation to be paid will be set service years, etc. at a level considered reasonable, while taking into 45 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Compensation scheme for Executive Officers 1. The compensation scheme for the Executive interest of shareholders with the Executive Officers Officers focuses on incentives for the realization and further raising management awareness that of management policies and the improvement of places importance on the interest of shareholders, business performance, and performance-based and increasing the incentives for the improvement compensation will be paid in addition to the payment of business performance from the midand longof fixed-amount compensation and the retirement term perspectives, 50% of performance-based benefit upon resignation. compensation will be paid in the form of shares. 2. Fixed-amount compensation will be set at a level The Company sets a rule that, when the Executive considered reasonable taking into account the Officers acquire the Company shares as a part of contents of the Executive Officers duties and the compensation, they are required to continue the Company's conditions. shareholding until 1 year has passed from resignation. 3. The level of performance-based compensation will be 4. The amount of the retirement benefit will be decided decided while taking into account the consolidated on the basis of the monthly amount of compensation business performance and the performance of the and the number of service years, etc. business to which the respective Executive Officer is assigned, etc. With the purposes of meshing the Annual securities report (Japanese only) Outside Directors Effective Utilization of Outside Directors The Board of Directors comprises twelve members, five of auditors, and internal control departments via the Board whom are Outside Directors (one of whom is a woman), of Directors, and provide their impartial views regarding who objectively supervise and advise the Company's Mitsubishi Electric's management from an objective management (composition ratio of outside directors: perspective. By doing so, they bring greater transparency 42%). to the management framework and strengthen the Board's Outside Directors receive reports about the activity function of supervising management. status of internal auditors, the audit committee, accounting Criteria for Judgment of the Independence of Independent Outside Directors Outside Directors are expected to supervise management requirements specified in Mitsubishi Electric's Guidelines from a high-level perspective based on their abundant on the Independence of Outside Directors (see below) experience. Those who are comprehensively judged and thus possess no risk of giving rise to any conflict of to possess the character, acumen, and business and interest with the general shareholders of the company, professional experience suited to fulfill that role, and are selected as outside director candidates by the who satisfy the requirements of independent executives Nominating Committee. specified by the Tokyo Stock Exchange and the <Independency Guideline for Outside Directors> Mitsubishi Electric Corporation nominates persons with experience in company management in the business world, attorneys and academics, among other specialists, who are appropriate to oversee the Company's business operations and not falling under any of the following cases, as candidates for Outside Directors. Note that each of the following 1), 2), 4) and 5) includes a case in any fiscal year during the past three fiscal years. 1. Persons who serve as Executive Directors, Executive Officers, managers or other employees (hereinafter business executers ) at a company whose amount of transactions with the Company accounts for more than 2% of the consolidated sales of the Company or the counterparty 2. Persons who serve as business executers at a company to which the Company has borrowings that exceed 2% of the consolidated total assets 3. Persons who are related parties of the Company's independent auditor 4. Persons who receive more than ¥10 million of compensation from the Company as specialists or consultants 5. Persons who serve as Executive Officers (Directors, etc.) of an organization to which the Company offers contribution that exceeds ¥10 million and 2% of the total revenue of the organization 6. Persons who are the Company's major shareholders (holding more than 10% of voting rights) or who serve as their business executers 7. Persons who are related parties of a person or company that have material conflict of interest with the Company 46 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Outside Directors (as of June 28, 2018) Name, Positions Board Attendance Title Reasons for Nomination Picture Held Rate (FY2018) Member of the Mr. Yabunaka's experience and insights as an Nomination expert in international affairs cultivated through 100% Outside Committee the course of a career are highly beneficial (Seven out of Director Member of the to Mitsubishi Electric. Mitsubishi Electric thus expects him to bring an objective viewpoint to the seven meetings) Compensation Committee overseeing of the Company's business operations. Mitoji Yabunaka Chairman of Mr. Obayashi's experience and insights cultivated the Nomination through the course of a career as a lawyer (public 100% Outside Committee prosecutor, attorney-at-law) are highly beneficial (Seven out of Director Member of to Mitsubishi Electric. Mitsubishi Electric thus expects him to bring an objective viewpoint to the seven meetings) the Audit Committee overseeing of the Company's business operations. Hiroshi Obayashi Member of Mr. Watanabe's experience and insights as the Audit a certified public accountant cultivated over 100% Outside Committee the course of his career are highly beneficial (Seven out of Director Member of the to Mitsubishi Electric. Mitsubishi Electric thus expects him to bring an objective viewpoint to the seven meetings) Compensation Committee overseeing of the Company's business operations. Kazunori Watanabe Member of the Mr. Nagayasu's experience and insights as a Nomination business specialist cultivated over the course of his 86% Outside Committee career in bank management are highly beneficial (Six out of five Director Member of to Mitsubishi Electric. Mitsubishi Electric thus expects him to bring an objective viewpoint to the meeting) the Audit Committee overseeing of the Company's business operations. Katsunori Nagayasu Ms. Koide's experience and insights as a business Member of the Nomination specialist cultivated over the course of her career in international corporate management are highly 100% Outside Committee beneficial to Mitsubishi Electric. (Seven out of Director Member of the Mitsubishi Electric thus expects her to bring an seven meetings) Compensation objective viewpoint to the overseeing of the Committee Company's business operations. Hiroko Koide Note Mitsubishi Electric Corporation held seven Board of Directors meetings during the fiscal year. 47 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Compliance Message from Top Management / Our Concept of Compliance Message from Top Management The Mitsubishi Electric Group regards ethics and compliance as the foundation of corporate management, and issues the following message to all employees as part of its efforts to establish even stronger relationships of trust with society, customers, and stakeholders. The operating environment continues to undergo dramatic changes. What must continue regardless of how the times may change is respect for corporate ethics and compliance. Mitsubishi Electric Group formulated the Mitsubishi Electric Group Corporate Ethics and Compliance Statement as our basic guideline for compliance, pledging to society that We will never establish a target, nor make a commitment, that could only be achieved with conduct that would violate applicable laws or business ethics or practices. Looking toward the upcoming 100th anniversary of our foundation and even the next 100-year milestone, in order to continue to be a corporate group which earns the confidence of society and our customer, I request each and every one of you to be aware again that adherence to ethics and compliance forms the basis for the company to remain in business. President & CEO And you must always remember that each and every one of you has a responsibility to ensure that as a good corporate citizen we conduct our business in compliance with applicable laws and high ethical standards in all endeavors: you should have pride in our high level of business ethics. Takeshi Sugiyama Our Concept of Compliance With the Mitsubishi Electric Group Corporate Ethics Based on this awareness, we are attempting to perfect and Compliance Statement formulated in 2001 as our a compliance system which promotes compliance in basic guideline for compliance, the Mitsubishi Electric the broadest sense, encompassing the perspective of Group recognizes the importance of ethics and absolute corporate ethics, rather than merely focusing on following compliance with legal requirements as a fundamental the letter of the law. At the same time, we are working to precondition for the Group's continued existence. educate our employees in this area. The Corporate Ethics and Compliance Statement We will conduct ourselves always in compliance with applicable laws and with a high degree Compliance with of sensitivity to changes in social ethics or local practices. We will never establish a target, nor the Law make a commitment, that can only be achieved with conduct that would violate applicable laws or business ethics or practices. We will conduct ourselves always with a respect for human rights. We will not discriminate based on nationality, race, religion, gender, disability, or any other reason prohibited by applicable laws Respect for nor will we violate international laws providing protection for individual and human rights or any Human Rights treaties providing such protection to which the country where any of our companies is located is a party. Concurrently with the pursuit of a reasonable profit, we will conduct ourselves always with an Contributing to awareness of our corporate social responsibility in order to further the progress of society as a Society whole. Collaboration and As a good corporate citizen and neighbor, we will support civic and charitable organizations and Harmonization activities in the communities where we reside or work that in our view contribute to community with the Community development. Consideration of As part of our goal to achieve a recycling-oriented society, we will pay attention to and respect Environmental the global environment in every aspect of our business. Issues We will conduct ourselves with the highest integrity, making a proper distinction between public and private matters, and we will use company resources—including money, time, and Awareness of information—for legitimate business purposes. We will use company computers and various Personal Integrity networks and online services, including e-mail and Internet access, primarily for company business. 48 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Mitsubishi Electric Group Conduct Guidelines Mitsubishi Electric Group Conduct Guidelines is a changes to people's perceptions of social norms and uniform code of conduct in which laws and regulations other relevant factors. The version presented here is the and social norms to be complied with and respected by most recent revision, published in April 2017. each employee of Mitsubishi Electric Group in executing In addition to the Japanese language, the Code of company business and performing his/her duties are put Conduct is published in English, Chinese, and Thai, and together and summarized, and is intended to serve as offers identical content for each country and region in guidelines for our day-to-day conduct. which we operate, presenting norms to which every These Guidelines were first established in 1990, and Mitsubishi Electric Group employee should conform. became what they are now through multiple revisions The Mitsubishi Electric Group Conduct Guidelines based on revisions of relevant laws and regulations, System to Ensure thorough Implementation of Compliance at the Global Level Based on recognition that the promotion of compliance is established a Compliance Department whose purpose inseparably linked with business promotion, the Mitsubishi is to enhance implementation of group-wide compliance Electric Group's compliance system has our business measures and conduct inspections of the state of divisions and affiliates in Japan and overseas take the compliance in that respective group. Furthermore, in order initiative in promoting compliance. to further strengthen and expand previously established We renamed the Legal Division to the Corporate overseas compliance systems and ensure thorough Legal & Compliance Division as of October 2012, in order compliance at the global level, a special department was to promote group-wide compliance. Moreover, in each established in the Corporate Legal & Compliance Division business group of Mitsubishi Electric Corporation, we in April 2014. Compliance promotion structures (Mitsubishi Electric Group) Associated companies in Japan Mitsubishi Electric Corporation (alone) Associated companies outside of Japan President Executive Officers Meeting Corporate Compliance Committee Legal and regulatory management divisions Regional Chief Compliance Officer Group Compliance President President President Promotion Committee Group Compliance Group Compliance General Manager Regional General Manager Corporate Conference Compliance Group Vice President, Compliance Managers Corporate Compliance Corporate Compliance head of site Officer Conference Officers Conference Officer Compliance Compliance Managers Head of Manager Conference each division Head of Department each division Senior Manager Compliance Leader Compliance Manager Section Manager Operation site Business unit, branch office, manufacturing site, research center Site-Specific Compliance Compliance Information Compliance Promotion Compliance Information Promotion Committe Liaison Conference Committee Liaison Conference Mitsubishi Electric Group compliance promotion structures 49 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Working-level conference on compliance in the China region Meeting of compliance managers in the Asia region VOICE (Compliance activity promotion officer in China) Legal Office Mitsubishi Electric (China) Co., Ltd. Li Li I consult on compliance promotion activities and laws and regulations in the China region. In China, frequent revisions are made to laws and regulations owing to an active legal system. Therefore, it is my responsibility to promptly notify all business sites of the latest legal information by distributing a monthly e-mail preliminary report summarizing major new laws and regulations at both the central and local government levels. I also help business sites to establish a compliance framework, and play a role in creating learning materials and acting as instructor in compliance education programs and lecture courses. This is to instill an awareness of ethics and legal compliance among employees throughout the China region. As a legal affairs staff member in the China region, I wish to make an ongoing contribution to enhancing legal awareness among all employees in China. Initiatives against Major Compliance Risks Fair Competition (Preventing the Violation of Anti-trust Laws) The Mitsubishi Electric Group deeply regrets its experience and affiliated company, has continued to be implemented of having received an administrative penalty for violating beyond fiscal 2017, and ongoing education has been anti-trust laws in Japan and overseas. Out of this regret, we provided to both prevent the recurrence of incidents in uphold anti-trust laws as one of the most important laws violation of anti-trust laws and prevent previous violations that we must abide by, and make ongoing Group-wide from being forgotten. efforts to both prevent any recurrence of such incidents Practical training that reflects the characteristics of and prevent previous incidents from being forgotten. each business and affiliated company has continued to be In addition to formulating and operating internal implemented beyond fiscal 2017. The plan is to offer it regulations that govern Mitsubishi Electric and its around 350 times for approximately 10,700 employees by affiliated companies in Japan and overseas, we have also fiscal 2019. Additionally, education on anti-trust laws that strengthened internal audits that specialize in anti-trust focus on regional characteristics is offered to overseas laws, and place importance on employee training through employees in the form of face-to-face education and a combination of e-learning and classroom programs. e-learning programs. Between fiscal 2014 and fiscal 2016, company-wide We will continue to make greater efforts to prevent intensive training was implemented 241 times with the similar incidents from occurring and previous incidents participation of 11,248 employees. In affiliated companies, from being forgotten, through regular monitoring of the training was implemented between fiscal 2014 and fiscal status of daily business activities and internal regulations, 2017 for executives, sales and other departments, and practical employee training that matches actual has been attended by 3,326 employees to date. Practical transaction situations, and other such initiatives. training that reflects the characteristics of each business 50 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Corruption Prevention (Preventing Bribery) The Mitsubishi Electric Group takes measures to prevent Additionally, e-learning programs are available to bribery involving Japanese and overseas public officials, employees who have opportunities to interact with public such as enhancing internal rules, providing employee officials within their duties at Mitsubishi Electric. Some education, requiring self-inspections, and conducting 21,800 employees have taken these programs so far. Also internal audits. implemented are face-to-face education that emphasizes We engage in Group-wide initiatives to prevent practical issues and case studies intended for employees bribery. The Mitsubishi Electric Group Anti-Bribery Policy who frequently interact with foreign public officials. To date, that was established on April 1, 2017 reiterates to people the programs have attracted approximately 730 employees. in and outside the Group our policy that, among other In the light of the current global situation where antithings, our Group companies, their officers and employees bribery regulations are becoming increasingly tighter, do not offer bribes and do not pursue profits that can be we will continue to enhance measures in each region, realized only by offering bribes. and take effective and efficient measures by selecting countries and transactions with particularly high risks of English version being involved in bribery, to respond to the expansion of Chinese version our business at a global level. Support and Responses to Political Activities The Mitsubishi Electric Group provides support to political Division screens all cases in detail in accordance with the activities only upon full consideration of its social standing Political Fund Control Law, and ensures adherence to all as defined in its corporate mission, and in compliance internal procedures. Additionally, in public elections, we with relevant laws and regulations in each country. make every effort neither to infringe on the Public Offices For example, when Mitsubishi Electric makes a Election Act nor deviate from sound social morals. political donation in Japan, the Corporate Administration Export Control To maintain international peace and security, Mitsubishi Chinese, and Thai) to all associated companies, and Electric has established and abides by the Corporate provide guidance for the establishment of regulations, Security Export Control Regulation. Based on the the development of a framework, employee training and regulation, all transactions are closely checked for internal audits in each company. In fiscal 2018, we held any inclusion of export controlled items and security educational workshops in Thailand, Taiwan, China and concerns related to destination, customers, end-use, and Europe, intended for ECAs (Export Control Administrators) transaction conditions, and are strictly managed pursuant in associated companies. In Japan, we provided to relevant laws and regulations. Furthermore, to ensure e-learning courses that approximately 36,000 Mitsubishi all associated companies in Japan and overseas also Electric employees and 34,000 employees of associated take proper action in line with our policies, we distribute companies took. For overseas associated companies, we the Security Export Control Standard Regulations of have English, Chinese, and Thai e-learning materials for the Mitsubishi Electric Group (in Japanese, English, the implementation of training programs in each company. 51 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Disassociation with Anti-social Groups The Mitsubishi Electric Group adheres to the policy to an anti-social group, even if the transaction with the of refusing transactions and any other relationship partner has already begun. whatsoever with anti-social groups (crime syndicates, Furthermore, in Japan an officer for preventing terrorists, drug syndicates and other criminal unreasonable demands, as stipulated in the Antiorganizations) in countries and regions where it engages Organized Crime Law, is assigned to each business office in business, as clearly set forth in the following three and affiliated company as a Group-wide measure against provisions in the Mitsubishi Electric Group Conduct unreasonable demands from anti-social groups. If a Guidelines. transaction partner is found to be an anti-social group, 1. We will not have any relationship with anti-social groups, we make every effort to promptly disassociate ourselves and will deal with such groups with a firm attitude. with the company with the cooperation of the police, 2. When engaging in a new transaction, we will make external specialist institutions (the National Center for certain that the transaction partner is not related in any the Elimination of Boryokudan and the Special Violence way to an anti-social group. Prevention Measures Association (Tokubouren) under 3. Transaction contracts shall include an article on the the control of the Metropolitan Police Department, the elimination of crime syndicates and other anti-social National Center for the Elimination of Boryokudan, etc.), groups, and provide for the termination of the contract and lawyers. in the event a transaction partner is found to be related Through Dissemination/Education of Our Compliance Policy Ensuring that Employees are Familiar with Our Compliance Policy The top management of the Mitsubishi Electric Group, distribute cards printed with the Statement to each of our including the President, takes every opportunity to directly employees. address employees on the subject of compliance in a We distribute the Mitsubishi Electric Group Conduct diverse range of situations, ensuring that an awareness of Guidelines to all Mitsubishi Electric Group employees, the importance of compliance and our stance on it takes including overseas employees. Employees in Japan root throughout our organization. receive a booklet containing the conduct guidelines, To raise awareness even further, we also display which summarizes points that employees should be posters of the Mitsubishi Electric Group Corporate aware of in relation to compliance as they conduct their Ethics and Compliance Statement in our workplaces and work duties. 企業倫理 遵法宣言 私たちは、活動するいかなる国や地域においても、 常に以下に宣言するところに則って行動します。 法の遵守 法は最低限の道徳であることを認識し、法の遵守はもちろん、 社会全体の倫理観や社会常識の変化に対する鋭敏な感性を 常に持ち、行動します。 法、社会倫理、あるいは社会常識にもとる行為をしなければ 達成できない目標の設定やコミットメントはしません。 人権の尊重 常に人権を尊重した行動をとり、国籍、人種、宗教、性別等 いかなる差別も行いません。 社会への貢献 企業としての適正利潤を追求するとともに、社会全体の発展を 支えるとの気概を持ち、企業の社会的責任を自覚して行動します。 地域との協調・融和 良き市民、良き隣人として、ボランティア活動等地域社会の 諸行事に積極的に参加し、地域の発展に貢献します。 環境問題への取組み 循環型社会の形成を目指し、資源の再利用をはじめ、あらゆる 事業活動において、いつも環境への配慮を忘れずに仕事を進め Portable Card ます。 企業人としての自覚 企業人としての自覚を持ち、自らの扱う金銭等の財産、時間、 Mitsubishi Electric Corporate Ethics and Group Conduct 情報等（特に電子メールやインターネットの利用）に対し、 公私を厳しく峻別し行動します。 Compliance Statement Poster Guidelines Booklet 企業行動規範委員会 English version Simplified Chinese version Traditional Chinese version Thai version 52 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Compliance Education by Diverse Means The Mitsubishi Electric Group works to ensure that e-learning programs, group lessons, distance learning employees are aware of the Group's concept of or other such methods. In fiscal 2018, as many as compliance and of the laws that are essential to the 122,909 employees in Japan (employees of Mitsubishi conduct of our business activities, using a variety of tools Electric and affiliated companies in Japan) participated including workshops, e-learning programs, the distribution in such programs (100% participation in complianceof manuals, and screen displays when employees log in. related e-learning programs by Mitsubishi Electric In using these tools, we carefully consider and provide the alone). Overseas as well, some 7,125 employees have optimum content for different businesses, job levels, job participated in compliance-related e-learning programs categories, and regions (overseas). that have been uniformly implemented in the Southeast In addition to educational activities conducted Asia and Oceania regions, for example. independently by each of the Group's affiliated companies In fiscal 2018, Mitsubishi Electric’s Corporate Legal and business divisions, we also carry out Group-wide & Compliance Division conducted approximately 314 educational initiatives. Employees in all countries in compliance-related workshops within the Group, in which which we operate take part in an educational program a cumulative total of 12,796 people participated. concerning the major relevant laws, respect for human rights, and the Group's concept of compliance, through Compliance Audits To verify the state of compliance in the Mitsubishi Electric Mitsubishi Electric conducts internal audits to check Group, the internal departments in each of the affiliated the operational effectiveness of these regulations and companies in the Group carries out self-inspection several systems (in the audit areas of ethics and legal compliance, times a year by various means. The inspection utilizes accounting and finance, human resources, technology various tools, including specific check sheets for the areas management and quality management). If an audit reveals of corporate ethics and legal compliance. Corrective action the need for improvement, the relevant company or is taken as necessary in response to the result of such selfdepartment will receive instructions for remediation/ inspection. improvement. Periodical reports of audit are presented Additionally, internal regulations and systems are in before the audit committee through the executive officer in place to ensure proper operations across the Mitsubishi charge of internal audits. Electric Group. The Corporate Auditing Division of 53 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Establishment of Internal and External Ethics and Legal Compliance Hotlines Mitsubishi Electric has put in place ethics and legal The detailed functions of these ethics and legal compliance hotlines (internal notification system, socompliance hotlines are provided in the booklet called whistle blowing system ), with the objective of distributed to all employees for dissemination of promptly addressing fraudulent, illegal, and anti-ethical Mitsubishi Electric Group Conduct Guidelines. Posters are conducts as a self-disciplinary mechanism. This function also displayed in each workplace (each department and is available through two notification channels, inside and operational basis), as well as on the Group website, to outside the company. The outside channel is managed thoroughly make known its function to all employees. by independent law firms. The hotlines are operated The internal notification system is also in place in each pursuant to clearly defined internal regulations that affiliated company of the Mitsubishi Electric Group both in ensure responses to anonymous informants, elimination Japan and overseas. of disadvantageous treatment of informants, and the confidentiality of all informants. Notifications are also accepted from business partners and companies, if it pertains to issues that arise out of their relationship with Mitsubishi Electric, including but not limited to business transactions. Alleged issues of each notification are examined by a group composed ad hoc of members from departments capable of conducting investigation, depending on the nature of the notification. In case an alleged issue casts doubt on compliance with pertinent laws and/or internal rules, efforts are made to reinforce the prevalence of adequate norms through a revision of rules or explanatory meetings for promoting due understanding of the same. Where misconduct contrary to any laws and/or internal rules is detected, the concerned employee is subject to disciplinary action, and if any organized involvement in the detected incident is found, remediation is demanded of the concerned department. Poster for internal dissemination of information on the hotline 54 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Risk management Basic Policy The Mitsubishi Electric Group engages in the development, to realize sustainable growth, the Group has a framework manufacture and sale of a broad range of products in place for managing business-related risks in an in diverse sectors, including the Energy & Electric appropriate manner. Systems, Industrial Automation Systems, Information The framework provides proper responses to risks & Communication Systems, Electronic Devices and depending on their type, size and impact. For example, Home Appliances. Moreover, the Group operates these by incorporating risk management into business businesses not only in Japan but overseas, such as in activities, risks are managed according to the size and North America, Europe and Asia. characteristics of each business, and important risks that To respond to the expectations of all stakeholders cover the entire Group are mainly managed by corporate beginning with society, customers and shareholders, and departments. Risk Management Framework The Mitsubishi Electric Group maintains a multi-dimensional In the event an incident occurs that seriously calls into risk management system in which all executive officers question the Group's social responsibility and is expected participate. to have a profound impact on management, or in the case Under this system, executive officers are responsible of such emergencies as large-scale disasters, accidents or for risk management in their assigned areas of operation. pandemics, a company-wide Emergency Response Center In addition, executive officers exchange information and will be established to implement measures under the 【4-3-2】Risk Management Framework participate in important management initiatives and decisions through regularly scheduled executive leadership of the president, to ensure prompt and proper initial response. officers' meetings. Risk Management Framework Executive Board Company-wide Emergency Response Office (emergency situations) Planning Committee Business Council Risk Review Board Joint Review Commission Business Investment Review Committee Regional Corporate Offices (overseas) Important matters Risk cases Quality / Environment Disasters, etc. Operations departments Risk management framework 55 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Responding to Environmental Risk The Mitsubishi Electric Group works to quickly discover agreements, and informs these outside parties of our latent risks in business activities that can impact or risk response procedures and disseminates the proper potentially impact the environment in a substantial way. procedures in their respective organizations. In order to prepare for the event of an accident or Each organization runs a test at least once a year emergency that involves an environmental risk such as to determine if the managers in charge are capable of groundwater or soil pollution, the handling of PCB waste, appropriately responding to an emergency. The tests or the malfunction of an environmental facility, head office simulate an emergency that has the potential of occurring, divisions, manufacturing facilities, R&D centers, branches, to determine whether initial responses, provisional and affiliates in Japan and overseas have developed measures, and communication methods properly function detailed risk descriptions and procedure manuals that in regard to environmental accidents. When problems specify departmental responsibilities. Mitsubishi Electric are uncovered, the procedures are revised and the new also anticipates the possibility of accidents, complaints, version is publicized throughout the organization. or violations of the law arising on the side of construction [Environment] Environmental risk management subcontractors or companies working under outsourcing Disaster Countermeasures Development of a Response Framework for Large-scale Disasters Engaging in business on a global scale entails the risk response framework, reexamining its disaster prevention of being affected by disasters, including earthquakes, system and disaster countermeasures, to prepare for regional conflicts, terrorism, and outbreaks of infectious emergencies. diseases. The Mitsubishi Electric Group is strengthening its Emergency disaster prevention framework In the event that any of Mitsubishi Electric’ s sites suffer or promptly examines and executes policies in response are at risk of suffering serious damage as the result of a to business continuity initiatives and requests from large-scale disaster, we have a framework in place society (support for affected areas, donations, etc.). that is centered on the Mitsubishi Electric Emergency Particularly with regard to overseas sites and affiliated Response Center headed by our president, to enable companies overseas, it works closely with each regional the entire Mitsubishi Electric Group to respond to the response headquarters to ensure employee safety (safety emergency situation. confirmation, livelihood support, etc.) and provide support In addition to verifying the (personal and physical) for business restoration. Disaster Prevention Framework disaster situation, the Emergency Response Center Japan Mitsubishi Electric <Ordinary times <Times of emergency (permanently in place)> (temporarily in place)> Company-wide Disaster Mitsubishi Electric Prevention and Safety Committee Emergency Response Center Examination of disaster Disaster Countermeasure prevention activities, information instructions instructions for course of action Business group headquarters, branch offices, International headquarters manufacturing sites, research institutes Overseas Regional countermeasure headquarters Examination of disaster (Americas, Europe, Asia, Disaster Examination of disaster China, Taiwan) prevention activities, Disaster information prevention activities, instructions for course information of action, emergency instructions for course Countermeasure instructions restoration support, etc. of action, emergency regarding risks overseas, restoration support, etc. sharing of information across each region, transmission of relevant information to Japan Affiliated companies in Japan Affiliated companies overseas Disaster prevention framework (Mitsubishi Electric Group) 56 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Framework for ordinary times (creation of a PDCA cycle for disaster response) In ordinary times, we take steps to ensure that the In fiscal 2018, the Committee prioritized enhancing disaster prevention initiatives we have so far taken and implementing emergency drills and BCP training, continue to be valid, by establishing a Company-wide promoting anti-earthquake and disaster-mitigation Disaster Prevention and Safety Committee headed by measures, and promoting the formulation of BCPs among the executive officer in charge of general affairs, and by suppliers, as issues to address within the Group. implementing continuous improvement activities through In fiscal 2019, the Committee will focus on reviewing a PDCA cycle to make improvements based on periodic BCPs toward increasing their viability in times of examinations and reviews of the disaster response emergency as a Group-wide priority. measures of the Mitsubishi Electric Group (at least once a * BCP: Business Continuity Plan year) and the results of emergency drills. Initiatives for Business Continuity and Disaster Response BCP formulation and regular (annual) review To fulfill our responsibility as a product supplier, we had business at an alternative site and urged major affiliated all Mitsubishi Electric offices formulate a BCP assuming companies in Japan and overseas to formulate a BCP. the possible outbreak of a new strain of influenza in To ensure the BCP that is formulated in each office and fiscal 2011 and a BCP assuming the risk of a large-scale affiliated company in Japan and overseas remains valid, earthquake in fiscal 2013. the BCP is reviewed and countermeasures are upgraded In fiscal 2014, we began an examination of continuing every year. Business continuity in the supply chain At Mitsubishi Electric, we pursue initiatives to avoid organize BCP seminars for suppliers, to strengthen situations in which a large-scale disaster or other awareness and provide support for disaster prevention unavoidable circumstance imposes serious damage on measures. suppliers, severs the supply of materials, or obstructs our 3. Activities for ensuring prompt initial response at times production activities. of disaster 1. Evaluation of BCP risks among suppliers To ensure prompt initial response at times of From fiscal 2015, we have begun an evaluation of BCP disaster, we have created and actively utilize a map risks among our suppliers in Japan using a companysearch system that allows us to search on a map the wide unified index, and are bringing visibility to locations of suppliers in the vicinity of a disaster point. suppliers with high risks. 2. Activities for mitigating supplier risks Hereafter, we will also promote multi-company To mitigate the risks that have come to light through purchasing and multi-siting of production centers by the BCP risk evaluation of suppliers, we recommend suppliers overseas, to ensure stable procurement activities multi-company purchasing, and request our suppliers in our overseas production centers. to multi-site their production centers. We also 57 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Strengthening disaster responses Each office and affiliated company of the Mitsubishi In fiscal 2018’ s drill, the target time for recovery of all Electric Group has a disaster response manual, by which enterprise systems was successfully achieved. it implements preliminary measures (disaster mitigation We have also instructed affiliated companies to measures) and disaster prevention drills. For example, establish the same level of disaster countermeasures as every year, the Mitsubishi Electric Corporate IT Strategy those implemented by Mitsubishi Electric to strengthen Division, which has two separate data centers in Tokyo their emergency preparedness through disaster-prevention and the Kansai region, carries out a drill for switching drills at each site. between data centers in the event of an emergency. BCP training at a Mitsubishi Electric site in Japan Disaster prevention drill at an overseas Mitsubishi Electric site (Taiwan) Pandemic countermeasures The development of various modes of transportation company in the event of an outbreak of a new strain of and transportation networks, and the globalization of influenza (through BCP formulation, keeping tabs on the the economy have increased not only the movement of dynamics of business travelers and expatriates, stockpiling people, but also the risk of pandemic diseases such as masks, etc.). the Ebola virus disease and new strains of influenza. Overseas, and particularly in countries where the Amid the advancing globalization of Mitsubishi probability of an outbreak of a new strain of influenza is high, Electric’ s businesses, in Japan we commenced initiatives we provide direction to formulate a BCP that assumes such to fulfill our corporate social responsibilities to (1) ensure an outbreak and to otherwise implement countermeasures people's safety, (2) sustain businesses that serve societal that are suitable for the situation in each country. functions, and (3) minimize economic impact on our Ensuring safety overseas The Mitsubishi Electric Group's Overseas Safety Response assignment or business trip, including to affiliates, Center, under the Corporate Human Resources Division, and visited 14 sites in 10 countries to survey security works closely with overseas sites (overseas offices and situations and provide advice on medical and health affiliated companies of Mitsubishi Electric and affiliates in environments and educational and living conditions. We Japan) to grasp the dynamics and confirm the safety of also participated in the public-private overseas safety overseas business travelers, convey various information cooperation conference sponsored by the Ministry of (travel restrictions, etc. based on information gathered Foreign Affairs, and exchanged information and views from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and specialized with other companies and organizations. The results agencies), and provide employee education. of the conference have been incorporated into the risk In fiscal 2018, we organized overseas safety seminars management activities of our company and overseas sites. for employees scheduled to take up an overseas 58 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Our approach to information security Basic Policy The Mitsubishi Electric Group handles confidential level of security measures that are applied to our own corporate information and personal information confidential corporate information. appropriately as part of its social responsibility to make Personal information collected from our customers certain that such sensitive information does not leak out through questionnaires, registration of purchased and cause concern for our customers and society. products, repair services, and other such means is Confidential corporate information, which includes managed based on the Personal Information Protection information on Mitsubishi Electric’ s sales, engineering Policy that was established in April 2004. Owing to this matters and intellectual property, is managed based on system, Mitsubishi Electric acquired the Privacy Mark the Declaration of Confidential Corporate Information certification, which is the system for personal information Security Management that was established in February protection in Japan grants, in January 2008 in recognition 2005. Information that is entrusted to us by our corporate of our ongoing efforts to ensure proper handling of customers is managed and protected in compliance personal information. with a non-disclosure agreement, as well as by the same Framework and Guidelines The President & CEO assigns a Corporate Manager for The Audit Manager is responsible for implementing Confidential Corporate Information Management and and reporting the results of personal information Personal Information Protection and an Audit Manager protection audits. In the incident of a leakage of for Personal Information Protection. The Corporate confidential corporate information or personal information Manager assumes overall responsibility for information or in any other information security incident within the security, and the Corporate Secretariat for Confidential Mitsubishi Electric Group, the matter is reported to the Corporate Information Management and Personal leader through the framework, where it is promptly dealt Information Protection is in charge of planning and with in compliance with relevant laws and regulations promoting information security measures. Responsibility and is disclosed as necessary in a timely and appropriate for the actual utilization and management of confidential manner. corporate information and personal information lies with Business Groups also issue instructions and guidance the general manager of each business group (Confidential to overseas affiliates in the same way as they do to Corporate Information Management and Personal domestic affiliates, and strive to ensure information Information Protection Managers) and the manager of security in cooperation with overseas regional offices. each business site (office directors, etc.). The Business The Mitsubishi Electric Group learned a bitter lesson Group Secretariat and Business Office Secretariat strive from an accident that occurred in 2010 involving a leak of to ensure information security by maintaining close personal information collected from customers. Based on coordination and regularly holding meetings with the this experience, it is taking every step to ensure that no Confidential Corporate Information Management and leakage of confidential corporate or personal information, Information Security Framework Personal Information Protection Secretariat. or no similar accident, occurs again. President & CEO Policy Audit manager Corporate manager of confidential corporate and Business group headquarters of personal information management and personal Instruction information protection Managers information (general managers of business groups) protection ( Principal: Executive Officer for General Affairs; Assistant: Executive Officer for Information Technology ) Secretariat Corporate secretariat for confidential Offices, branches, manufacturing facilities Instruction corporate information management and personal information protection Managers ( ) Corporate Administration Division and Corporate (office directors, etc.) IT Strategy Division Secretariat Coordination Affiliates in Japan Coordination Overseas regional representative managers Overseas affiliates Control and Planning Framework and Guidelines Units responsible for promoting information security 59 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Global activities Management principles To maintain and improve the information security level The Mitsubishi Electric Group engages in activities for of the Mitsubishi Electric Group as a whole, including confidential corporate information management and overseas affiliates, various inspections are conducted in personal information protection as ongoing improvement line with information security systems prescribed in the activities that are implemented according to the PDCA Guidelines to Information Security Management Rules for (Plan, Do, Check, Action) cycle, and employs four security Affiliated Companies. measures to ensure proper management and protection of confidential corporate information and personal information from the organizational, human, physical, and technological perspectives. Information security regulations and guidelines Information security inspections and audits The Mitsubishi Electric Group has established regulations on checking whether confidential corporate information and guidelines to ensure information security with respect management and personal information protection to four security measures, and reviews them as necessary activities are being implemented properly by the to stay in compliance with current laws. Mitsubishi Electric Group as a whole, and on confirming the status of those activities so that improvements can PDCA cycle to ensure information security be made. Continuous improvement Conﬁdential Corporate Information and Security Measures Enhancement of Organizational Management framework, internal rules, internal audits the level of protection Human Education for employees, personnel management Security measures Site and room access control, physical protection Physical through equipment Technological Information system security Upward spiral Security Measures Review Planning Check Implementation ACTION and and PLAN audit operation CHECK DO PDCA cycle to ensure information security Inspections and audits related to information security Self-check program on confidential corporate Using a checklist, each Mitsubishi Electric Group company performs a self-inspection information management and of their activities for information security. personal information protection Cross-check program on Mitsubishi Electric's business sites mutually check each other's status of information confidential corporate security management. The status of information security in affiliated companies is information management and checked by Mitsubishi Electric. personal information protection Personal information protection In Mitsubishi Electric, the status of personal information protection is internally audited audits (Personal information under the supervision of the Audit Manager for Personal Information Protection. In protection management system affiliated companies in Japan that have acquired the Privacy Mark certification, the audits) same internal audit is conducted by the audit manager in each company. 60 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Various Measures Information security education Mitsubishi Electric provides the following education the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry in Japan, programs to foster a corporate culture that enforces the and examples of information leakage incidents that have proper handling of confidential corporate information and occurred overseas. personal information. Education for all employees Contractor management An e-learning program on information security is offered Confidential corporate information and personal once a year to all 40,000-some employees, to disseminate information are entrusted to a contractor only after a thorough knowledge of various issues on information proper non-disclosure agreement is concluded between security, including Mitsubishi Electric's policies, the status of Mitsubishi Electric and the contractor. The agreement information leakage incidents, a review of the previous year's stipulates all the security matters that we require. Before activities, the Act on the Protection of Personal Information entrusting the information to the contractor, we confirm and the Unfair Competition Prevention Act in Japan, and that the contractor will maintain the proper level of security measures (human, physical, technological, and protection. After submitting the information, we supervise organizational) to be taken by all employees. the contractor by regularly examining a status report on the use and management of the information that we have Education corresponding to each career stage submitted. Moreover, we make a special agreement that Education on confidential corporate information provides for the protection of the personal information management and personal information protection is that we have submitted. provided to new employees, employees in their twenties, thirties and forties, and newly appointed section managers, so that they may fulfill the roles that are expected of them at each career stage. Responses to cyber-attacks Prompt response is also taken in regard to today's Other specific education increasing threat of cyber-attacks, by establishing a Employees posted overseas are provided with a CSIRT (computer security incident response team) preliminary education program which includes the status and strengthening surveillance. Based on this premise, of Mitsubishi Electric's activities for confidential corporate Mitsubishi Electric and affiliated companies in Japan also information management and personal information conduct exercises where they practice handling phishing protection, Trade secret management guidelines of e-mails, so that all employees can act properly in the event that they receive such an e-mail. Activities for personal information protection Personal information protection Proper handling of personal information Mitsubishi Electric first created company rules on personal Mitsubishi Electric handles personal information protection in October 2001, and since then information appropriately; we acquire it requires all employees and affiliated persons to obey by specifying purpose of use, use it only those rules strictly. After issuing a personal information within the intended scope, and provide protection policy in 2004, Mitsubishi Electric satisfied the it to a third party only with prior consent requirements of JIS Q 15001:2006 Personal Information from users. Protection Management Systems in January 2008, and was permitted to use the PrivacyMark, which certifies the establishment of management systems that ensure Response to the EU General Data proper measures for personal information protection. We Protection Regulation (GDPR) have maintained our PrivacyMark certification until the The Mitsubishi Electric Group handles personal data from present through five biennial assessments. the EU in an appropriate manner with due consideration We have also conducted a review of our internal to the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) that regulations to ensure a proper response to the amended was put into force in the EU in May 2018 as a framework Act on the Protection of Personal Information that came to protect privacy. into force in May 2017. 61 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Research and Development Basic Policy on Research and Development As the cornerstone of its growth strategy, the Mitsubishi R&D policy Electric Group will promote short-, medium-, and longterm R&D themes in a balanced manner. Well balanced short-, midand long-term R&D In addition to thoroughly strengthening current External technologies/entities Backcast businesses, the Group is striving to leverage its Op en accumulated strengths as an innovative, diversified Inn ova Future society tion electrical equipment manufacturer to create greater Super smart society Developing technologies necessary to value through technological and business synergies and is Society 5.0 realize future society engaging in R&D of future technologies needed to realize Creating further value through synergy its ideal vision. of technologies and businesses -term Long s~) Thoroughly strengthening erm (10Y At the same time, the Group is also focused on current businesses Mid-ts~) rm (4Y research into fundamental technologies that support all ort-te Deepening common Sh of its products. Furthermore, the Group will maximize fundamental technologies achievements by promoting enhancement of efficiency of Society 5.0: It is contained in the 5th Science and Technology Basic Plan approved by the Government of Japan in Jan. 2016. development through proactive SDGs: A set of 17 “Global Goals” with 169 targets as the sustainable development goals toward 2030, adopted by the United Nations in Sep. 2015. utilization of open innovation in collaboration with universities and other external R&D institutions. Major R&D Achievements in Fiscal 2018 Development of Object-Recognition Camera Development of 6.5 kV Full-SiC Power Technology for Coming Mirrorless Cars Semiconductor Module*1 Mitsubishi Electric Corporation has developed a 6.5 kV Mitsubishi Electric Corporation has developed what full-SiC*2 power semiconductor module featuring the is believed to be the industry’ s highest*1 performing world’ s highest*3 power density*4 of 9.3 kVA/cm3 (1.8 automotive camera technology for coming mirrorless times compared with Si*5 module) enabled by insulating cars*2 that instantly detects various object types at substrate with both thermal conductivity and heat distances of up to 100 meters using Mitsubishi Electric tolerance, and by high reliable bonding technology. Corporation’ s proprietary Maisart*3 -brand artificial Since the replacement of Si modules with full-SiC intelligence (AI) technology. modules substantially reduces switching loss and makes As a result of the approval of mirrorless cars for use in it possible to conduct high frequency operations, which Europe and Japan in June 2016, the market is expected had been difficult to carry out with Si modules, this to rapidly expand in the future. technology can realize energy-efficient power electronics This technology instantly detects approaching objects equipment as well as compact peripheral components. and identifies the type of object at the same time, which The application of this module will lead to smaller and is expected to help prevent accidents, especially when more energy-efficient power electronics equipment for drivers change lanes, by warning drivers. As such, the high-voltage electrical equipment for railcars and power development of this technology will contribute to the system and transformer equipment. realization of a safe and secure automobile society. *1This development is subsidized by the New Energy and *1 A s of January 17, 2018 (survey conducted by Mitsubishi Industrial Technology Development Organization (NEDO). Electric Corporation) *2SiC: Silicon Carbide (a compound of carbon and silicon) *2 System that replaces rearview and side mirrors with camera*3As of January 31, 2018, as high-voltage power monitoring systems semiconductor module (survey conducted by Mitsubishi *3Mitsubishi Electric’ s AI creates the State-of-the-ART in Electric Corporation) technology Mitsubishi Electric’ s AI technology brand aimed *4The magnitude of power generated by a certain volume at at making all equipment smart the time of standard operation *5Si: Silicon Power density rating (kVA/cm3) 9.3 5.1 1.8 times higher Conventional (Si) New model (SiC) 6.5kV full-SiC power Improved power density rating semiconductor module Instant recognition of distant objects to help Contributing to advances in railcarand power facility-related ensure driving safety equipment in terms of energy efficiency and miniaturization 62 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Protection of Intellectual Property Rights Basic Policy The proper protection of intellectual property (IP) rights management resource essential to its future and must promotes technological progress and sound competition, be protected. Through integrating business, R&D, and IP and also contributes to realizing affluent lifestyles and the activities, the Group is proactively strengthening its global development of society. IP assets, which are closely linked to the Group's business The Mitsubishi Electric Group recognizes that growth strategies and contribute to both business intellectual property (IP) rights represent a vital and society. Structure of the Intellectual Property Division Integrating Business, R&D and IP Activities The IP divisions of the Mitsubishi Electric Group include the Head Office IP Division, which is the direct Integration IP Network responsibility of the president, and the IP divisions at the Works, R&D centers, and affiliated companies. The IP/Standardization Strategy IP Division at Headquarters activities of each IP division are carried out under the executive officer in charge of IP at each location. The Head Office IP Division formulates strategies for the entire IP Departments Business Strategy Business Groups, Facilities, Affiliates Group, promotes critical projects, coordinates interaction with external agencies including patent offices, and is in charge of IP public relations activities. At the Works, R&D R&D Centers Development Strategy center, and affiliated company level, IP divisions promote IP Departments individual strategies in line with the Group's overall IP Integrating Business, R&D and IP Activities strategies. Through mutual collaboration, these divisions work to link and fuse their activities in an effort to develop more effective initiatives. Global IP Strategy The Mitsubishi Electric Group identifies critical IP-related As an indication of the Mitsubishi Electric Group's IP themes based on its mainstay businesses and important capability and global IP activities, the company ranked 1st R&D projects, and is accelerating the globalization of in Japan in terms of the number of patent registrations (in IP activities also by filing patents prior to undertaking 2017) announced by the Japan Patent Office (JPO), and business development in emerging countries where 4th in the world in terms of Patent Cooperation Treaty an expansion of business opportunities is expected. (PCT) applications by businesses (in 2017) announced by Furthermore, resident officers are assigned to Mitsubishi the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO). Electric sites in the United States, Europe, and China In conjunction with creating a patent network, we to take charge of IP activities and strengthen the IP are also actively pursuing activities toward acquiring capabilities of business offices, R&D centers, and affiliated design rights in Japan and overseas, to protect both the companies in each country. Through these initiatives, we functional and design aspects of our technologies. strive to create a robust global patent network. Further Strengthening Global IP Capabilities (No. of Applications) ● IP representative Europe Asia Head Office Americas IP Division ● Protecting products through IP rights ● Acquiring international standard-related patents （FY） ● Counterfeit product countermeasures USA Europe China Others Annual Trends in Overseas Patent Applications by the Further Strengthening Global IP Capabilities Mitsubishi Electric Group 63 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric (Top 5) PCT applicants: businesses, 2017 (WIPO, PCT Yearly Review) No. of patent registrations in 2017 (Japan) No. of No. of Rank Applicant Country patents Rank Applicant patents 1 Huawei China 4,024 1 Mitsubishi Electric 4,484 2 ZTE China 2,965 2 Canon 3,931 3 Intel USA 2,637 3 Toyota Motor 3,378 4 Mitsubishi Electric Japan 2,521 4 Panasonic 2,990 5 Qualcomm USA 2,163 5 Honda 2,502 （WIPO） (JPO) IP Strategy for International Standardization In order to expand business in global markets, the the organization are contributing to improvement and Mitsubishi Electric Group is actively promoting growth in business earnings. The Group is also working international standardization. Activities to acquire patents to increase activities for acquiring patents in competitive that support international standards (e.g., standard fields involving international standards, and promoting essential patents) are openly promoted. As the member IP activities that contribute to increasing product of an organization in which patent pools for Digital competitiveness and expanding market share. Broadcasting, MPEG, HEVC, DVD, Blu-ray Disc™* and Mobile communications collectively control standard * Blu-ray Disc™ is a trademark of the Blu-ray Disc Association essential patents, the IP revenues obtained through Respecting IP Rights The Mitsubishi Electric Group firmly recognizes the others, various educational measures are provided mainly importance of mutually acknowledging and respecting not to engineers and IP officers, to raise employee awareness only its own intellectual property rights but the intellectual and promote greater respect for the IP rights of others. At property rights of others as well. This stance is clearly set the same time, a set of rules has been put in place to ensure forth in the Mitsubishi Electric Group Conduct Guidelines and that a survey of the patent rights of others is carried out at practiced throughout the Group. every stage from development to production, and is strictly Any infringements on the IP rights of others not only enforced throughout the entire Group. violate the Code of Corporate Ethics and Compliance, but The Mitsubishi Electric Group also works diligently also have the potential to significantly impair the Group's to prevent any infringement on its IP rights by others. In continued viability as a going concern. The resulting potential addition to in-house activities, we place particular weight on impairments include being obliged to pay significant licensing collaborating with industry organizations while approaching fees or being forced to discontinue the manufacture of a government agencies both in Japan and overseas as a part certain product. of a wide range of measures to prevent the counterfeiting of In order to prevent any infringement on the IP rights of our products. Cooperation in IP Policies IP policies—such as those for prompt and efficient patent Property Strategy Headquarters and other governmental examination, international standardization activities, agencies of the Patent Office, and industrial organizations measures against counterfeit and pirated goods, and the such as the Keidanren and the Japan Intellectual Property establishment of a global patent system—encourage fair Association. Given today's advances in economic competition and contribute to building affluent lifestyles globalization, Mitsubishi Electric thus engages in active and society. exchanges of views and information with the World Based on this awareness, Mitsubishi Electric makes Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) and patent various proposals regarding IP policies and amendments offices abroad, and cooperates in establishing IP policies of relevant laws from the industrial perspective, through from a broad, global perspective. its activities with institutions such as the Intellectual 64 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Responsibility to Shareholders & Investors Basic Policy The Mitsubishi Electric Group enthusiastically engages results. We also make every effort to incorporate into in IR activities to gain the understanding and trust of our management plans and practices the views of our its shareholders and investors, and makes it a point to shareholders and investors and the results of dialogue disclose the appropriate information in a timely manner, with them. in regard to management policies, strategies, and financial Communication with Shareholders Mitsubishi Electric holds a General Meeting of Report, written in Japanese) to all of our shareholders. Shareholders in late June every year. By issuing the The Shareholder Communique provides an overview of convocation notice for this meeting in early June and the second quarter cumulative period and looks at future publishing the notice on our homepage one week before initiatives. This report is another example of how we it is issued, we ensure that there is sufficient time for all strive to deepen our shareholders’understanding of the shareholders to examine the items on the agenda. In Mitsubishi Electric Group. addition, we are establishing an environment that enables shareholders to exercise their voting rights on the Internet. Mitsubishi Electric regards shareholder meetings as 2017 三菱電機 precious opportunities for direct communication with our 株主通信 shareholders. Explanations of business strategies, results 2017年度 中間報告書 and other important matters employ visual presentations, 2017年4月1日から2017年9月30日まで making abundant use of photographs and charts in 特集 ｜ 安心・安全・快適な社会の実現に貢献する PowerPoint slides. In addition to making our explanations 三菱電機の easier to comprehend, we also aim to stimulate sincere AI技術の取り組み ▶ P.5 and constructive dialogue by providing detailed answers to questions that our shareholder pose. ■ 社長メッセージ Together with this, we also hold product exhibitions, 「グローバル環境先進企業」 を目指して ▶ P.1 which provide an opportunity for our shareholders to ■ 部門別概況 ▶ P.7 understand the Mitsubishi Electric Group’ s business ■ 会社情報 ▶ P.10 activities. And furthermore, at the beginning of December every year we send a Shareholder Communique (Midterm Shareholder Communique (Japanese version only) Major IR Activities in Fiscal 2018 In fiscal 2018, in addition to holding presentations presentations on our power devices business and FA concerning corporate strategies and financial results systems business as well as R&D open house providing for institutional investors and analysts and organizing opportunities to explain our research and development individual meetings with them, we also held a variety strategies and outcomes. Also held were company of events to deepen understanding of the Mitsubishi presentation meetings for individual investors. Electric Group’ s businesses. These sessions featured Investor Relations website Presentations on corporate strategy (FY2019) R&D open house 65 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Environment FROM THE PRESIDENT Aiming to Become a Global, Leading Green Company by Contributing to the Environment Through Products and Services, and Reducing Environmental Load from Production Contributing as a Manufacturer Promoting Environmental Plans in Order Throughout the Product Lifecycle to Achieve Environmental Vision 2021 As Mitsubishi Electric works towards becoming a“Global, The Mitsubishi Electric Group set forth Environmental Leading Green Company,”it is contributing to the creation Vision 2021 targeting completion in the year 2021, when of a more affluent society that simultaneously achieves the company will celebrate its 100th anniversary. To sustainability, safety, security and comfort. date, as the company progresses towards achieving that As a manufacturer, among a number of environmental vision, we have implemented various measures based on initiatives, Mitsubishi Electric places the greatest environmental plans that have been drawn up every three importance on creating a recycling-based society. This is years. In the 8th Environmental Plan (fiscal 2016-2018), because manufacturers are involved in the entire lifecycle our activities were driven under four pillars: creating a of every product, from procuring resources and materials low-carbon society, creating a recycling-based society, to manufacturing and sales, as well as the collection and creating a society in tune with nature, and strengthening recycling of products at the end of their service life. our environmental foundations. The Mitsubishi Electric Group is committed to taking The fruition of such efforts includes improvements responsibility for its products throughout their lifecycles, in production efficiency utilizing IoT*1 and the global doing so by promoting original approaches for saving expansion of highly efficient, energy-saving products. resources such as reducing product size and weight As a result, we have reduced CO2 emissions from beginning from the initial design stage. In the product production and product use, thereby contributing to collection and disposal stages, our initiatives are widelower levels of greenhouse gases. Additionally, we have ranging, including the modernization (renewal) of elevator achieved zero emission of wastes both in Japan and in all systems utilizing existing parts and equipment, and overseas regions, thereby contributing to more effective resource recycling businesses such as recycling used use of resources. Furthermore, improving employee home appliances. We are also striving to contribute environmental awareness has led to an increase in the towards a low-carbon society through the dissemination number of participants in the Mitsubishi Electric Outdoor of highly efficient, energy-saving products. Classroom and“Satoyama”Woodland Preservation The Mitsubishi Electric Group contributes to initiatives Projects, which have substantially outperformed our that focus mainly on promoting the creation of a targets. Biodiversity preservation activities have expanded recycling-based society and is committed to resolving to all Mitsubishi Electric business sites in Japan as well, environmental problems. Our efforts contribute to society thus contributing to the creation of a society in tune through the provision of eco-conscious products and services to customers and the implementation of a ctivities that minimize the environmental impact caused by production. Through these environmental initiatives, I believe that the Mitsubishi Electric Group will be recognized by all stakeholders as a company needed by society. Accordingly, I hope that each and every employee of the Mitsubishi Electric Group is proud of his/her work and speak well of the company to their families, doing so with purpose and a sense of pride. 66 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric with nature. By focusing on improving the quality of Japanese government—our aim is to contribute to the environmental initiatives at each manufacturing base, achievement of a sustainable society that flourishes higher levels of environmental management capability environmentally and economically. To this end, we have have been achieved and our environmental management listed, as one of the problems to be solved, overcoming foundations strengthened. environmental restrictions on energy through the use Our environmental initiatives have not gone of resources and energy that generate zero waste. unrecognized. Mitsubishi Electric was given the highest Mitsubishi Electric will strive to contribute to realizing rank, the A list, by CDP*2 in fiscal 2018 for the second Society 5.0 and achieving SDGs by developing and consecutive year in three categories: climate, water providing energy-saving products and systems that help and supply chain. It gives me great pleasure, and I am reduce CO2 emissions, including devices such as power honored, that our consistent efforts in carrying out these semiconductors, products like air-conditioners and system activities have been recognized by society. solutions such as ZEB.*6 The period covered by the 9th Environmental Plan In the past, through my involvement in the Company’ s (fiscal 2019-2021), which was launched in fiscal 2019, is automotive equipment, home appliances and other regarded as the final three years for achieving our vision. business operations, I put my energy into developing For this period, we have taken into consideration how we and providing products and services that simultaneously will manage future water shortages and more stringent achieve comfort for customers and reduce environmental overseas regulations, in addition to the aforementioned load. Going forward, I will use all my knowledge and skills four pillars of the 8th Environmental Plan. Consequently, to lead the Mitsubishi Electric Group toward the creation effective water usage and improving the level of of a prosperous society; doing so by clarifying how to environmental initiatives at overseas business sites have contribute to society and indicating the direction in which been added to the key issues for our activities. we shall proceed. Our goal is to become a Global, Leading Green June29, 2018 Company, and in line with this, we have set targets for consolidated sales of ¥5 trillion and operating margins of 8% or higher to be achieved by fiscal 2021. In order to achieve these growth targets, it is imperative that Takeshi Sugiyama President & CEO we meet stakeholders’expectations through various Mitsubishi Electric Corporation initiatives, including those which contribute to the environment through business operations. *1 Internet of Things: the network of various things connected via the Internet and controlling each other through the exchange of information. Long-term Outlook *2  DP: International non-government organization that C for Environmental Activities conducts surveys, discloses performance and evaluates the environmental activities of companies and cities. The Mitsubishi Electric Group has been working on the *3  ustainable Development Goals to be achieved by S formulation of a next long-term environmental vision that 2030, included in“The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development” , which was adopted at the United Nations contributes to achieving SDGs*3 looking ahead as far as Sustainable Development Summit in September 2015. 2030, or even 2050. We will set forth targets for the next *4  cience-Based Target initiatives: Initiatives regarding targets S long-term vision, together with a concrete and feasible for reducing CO2 emissions based on scientific grounds. roadmap to achieve those targets, after studying possible *5  ne of the basic guidelines advocated by the Japanese O changes in the future social environment and various risks government in its science and technology policies. An initiative to realize a“super smart society” , the 5th phase likely to emerge. Among those far-sighted initiatives, we of a society, which follows hunting, agrarian, industrial and are hoping to set targets for CO2 emission reductions and information societies. obtain approvals for SBT*4 initiatives by fiscal 2020. *6  ero Energy Building: A building where the net consumption Z In relation to Society 5.0*5 –being promoted by the of fossil fuel energy is zero or roughly zero, offset by energy savings and the utilization of renewable energy resources. 67 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric OUR ACTION FOR THE FUTURE What We Can Do for the Future At Mitsubishi Electric Group, we make full use of the strengths developed by our diverse range of businesses to respond to customer demands, while also aiming to create an affluent society where both a “ sustainable society”and “ safe, secure, and comfortable lifestyles”are simultaneously achieved. Public Utility Aiming to Build Next-Generation Social Infrastructure with a Broad Range 01 Systems Group of Technologies and Continuous R&D to Realize a Low-Carbon Society The Public Utility Systems Group offers an extensive range of products and services for customers responsible for building social infrastructure, including Main Products and Technologies the public sector and road/railway-related companies. These solutions ● Total energy and environmental solutions for railways include water treatment plant systems, intelligent transport systems, railway ● Railcar air-conditioner units information systems, and electromagnetic products for rolling stock. In the ● Ozone generators process of designing and manufacturing these products, we are promoting ● Water treatment systems a shift towards smaller and lighter products, as well as saving resources and ● Aurora Vision greater energy efficiency through improving product performance and efficiency. For example, we incorporated SiC power modules in station energy-saving inverters that supply the surplus power left over from the regenerated electric power produced when rolling stock is braking to power other systems such as station lighting and air conditioning. This system was awarded the Agency of Natural Resources and Energy Director-General’ s Award in the New Energy Grand Prize in fiscal 2017. We aim to expand the use of SiC power modules and further increase the conservation of energy. Energy & Industrial Developing High-performance, Eco-conscious Devices and Systems 02 Systems Group to Create a“Safe, Secure, and Comfortable Sustainable Society” The Energy & Industrial Systems Group provides a wide range of systems and products that play vital roles in power generation, transmission, Main Products and Technologies power distribution, and power retailing. On the product side, this includes ● Turbine generators generators, transformers, switchgear, and vacuum circuit breakers, while ● Switchgear systems include plant monitoring, grid stabilization, grid protection and ● Transformers control systems, and direct-current technologies. Through these products ● Power electronics systems and systems, we comprehensively support the establishment and operation for electric power of electric power infrastructures. ● Smart meter systems With the realization of a sustainable society now an important theme ● Battery storage systems globally, we will continue to develop eco-conscious, high-performance ● Plant monitoring and control systems devices and next-generation power systems capable of managing disasters, human threats and changes in the electricity market. Our aim is to contribute to creating a“safe, secure and comfortable sustainable society” . Building Systems Proactively Proposing Building Solutions Leading to Energy Savings 03 Group While Pursuing Eco-conscious Products The Building Systems Group provides public and private building owners with vertical transport systems such as elevators and escalators, and Main Products and Technologies building management systems such as access control, building management, ● Elevators and surveillance. During the course of the development and offering of these ● Escalators products, we prioritize customer safety and security throughout the lifecycle ● Access control systems of the products while focusing on the following environmental approaches: ● Building management systems 1. Pursuit of eco-conscious products ● Surveillance cameras (1) D  evelopment of products and technologies with excellent energy efficiency and resources-saving performance (2) C  ontinuous efforts to reduce environmental load during the processes of production and testing (3) P  romotion of greater energy efficiency and waste reduction through updating existing equipment 2. Proposal of total building solutions leading to higher energy efficiency Energy management and improvement in comfort and convenience 68 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Working to Solve Environmental Problems and Develop Products for Electronic Systems 04 Group Next-generation Energy Solutions The Electronic Systems Group manufactures space infrastructure, ranging from observation satellites to ground control systems for satellite operation and Main Products and Technologies large terrestrial telescope facilities, among other products. These products ●C  ommunications, broadcast, play a key role in leading to solutions to social issues around the globe. and observation satellites For example, we oversaw the manufacturing of the DAICHI-2 Advanced ●G  round control systems Land Observation Satellite (ALOS-2) and meteorological satellites for satellite operation Himawari-8 and Himawari-9, which contribute to improving the assessment ●L  arge telescopes of disaster situations, the monitoring of oceans and forests and the ● Doppler Lidar observation of the atmosphere, as well as safeguard communities and help ● Contact image sensors solve global environmental problems. Furthermore, the Doppler Lidar, which ● Millimeter-wave is capable of remotely measuring the speed of dust and particulates in the radar modules atmosphere, is expected to improve wind power generation efficiency and ● Mobile mapping systems extend the operating life of wind power plants. Communication Contributing to Expanding the Market and Reducing Environmental 05 Systems Group Load by Offering Systems with High Added-value The Communication Systems Group is contributing to advancement of the information society through products and services supplied to customers such as communications Main Products and Technologies carriers, financial services and retail distribution companies, and government agencies ● Subscriber terminal equipment for in Japan and overseas. These products and services include communications optical access systems infrastructure equipment that uses optical and wireless information communications ● Gateway equipment technologies and network camera systems equipped with imaging technologies. ● Network camera system While the products and systems are key elements of social infrastructure and offer greater functionality, the use of more and more devices has resulted in a rapid increase in the amount of electricity consumed. Under these circumstances, the Communications Systems Group focuses on four themes: energy-efficient products; energy savings in services provided through Group products; eco-conscious installation; and reducing CO2 emissions from production and during product transportation. Through these initiatives, our aim is to contribute to expanding the market and reducing environmental load by developing and offering systems with high added-value. Living Environment & Digital Developing Environmentally Friendly Products and Reducing Our 06 Media Equipment Group Own Environmental Impact The Living Environment & Digital Media Equipment Group provides air conditioners, ventilating units, water heaters, photovoltaic systems, Main Products and Technologies lighting solutions, kitchen appliances, home electronics, and digital media ● Room air conditioners equipment. In particular, we focus on the air-conditioning and refrigeration ● Retail and office/building air conditioning systems business, one of Mitsubishi Electric’ s growth drivers. In addition to ● LED lighting expanding operations in various segments such as room and packaged air● Solar power generation systems conditioners, we are pressing forward with the creation of new businesses ● Heat-pump hot-water supply systems and strengthening present ones. While providing customers at home, offices and factories with eco-conscious products and services, we also offer solutions that achieve higher energy efficiency for systems as a whole, such as ZEHs and ZEBs. We aim to expand the scale of our operation and help society reduce environmental impact. We also make continuous efforts to reduce the environmental impact of our own plants. Factory Automation Delivering Devices, Equipment, and Solutions that Help Reduce 07 Systems Group Energy Usage during Production to Customers around the World The Factory Automation Systems Group provides a wide variety of products and solutions for customers in the industrial mechatronics segment. In Main Products and Technologies recent years, we have been maximizing the use of factory automation (FA) ● Total factory automation solutions technologies that Mitsubishi Electric has developed over the years and ● Programmable Controllers IT-connected technologies. With the concept of solution proposals for ● Fiber 2D Laser Processing Machines manufacturing ahead of time, we are strongly supporting the optimization of ● Industrial robots manufacturing and management. By connecting all devices and equipment ● Energy-saving motors with Internet of Things (IoT) networks and analyzing and utilizing data, we ● Energy measurement units offer e-F@ctory solutions that optimize entire manufacturing processes. We ● Molded Case Circuit Breakers hope that our tireless campaign for improvement will significantly contribute for DC Circuit (up to 1000VDC) to greater energy efficiency at production facilities. 69 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Automotive Contributing to the Realization of a Low-carbon Society through the Development 08 Equipment Group of Low Fuel Consumption and Electrification Technologies for Vehicles The Mitsubishi Electric Group is contributing to the realization of a sustainable global environment with the aim of being a“global leading green company” . Main Products and Technologies The Automotive Equipment Group provides powertrain products, body ●A  lternators control products, and car multimedia devices globally. As a full-support supplier, ●S  tarters we work together with our customers to develop cutting-edge technologies ●E  lectric power steering and endeavor to provide a wide range services, from production, sales, and ●E  ngine control units supply to spare parts and rebuilds. The Automotive Equipment Group aims ●C  ar navigation systems to expand its environmental contribution through its business operation. It is engaged in initiatives to reduce CO2 emissions both by installing its products in vehicles to achieve better fuel efficiency and electrification, and by reducing energy consumption during the manufacturing process. We are also working on technological innovations for automotive products that will lead to the practical use of autonomous driving in coming years. Semiconductor Contributing to the Realization of a Low-carbon Society by Providing 09 & Device Group Energy-efficient Products Minimizing loss of generated power is essential to creating a sustainable global environment. The Semiconductor & Device Group globally provides Main Products and Technologies key devices that play a significant role in reducing power loss and ●P  ower devices supporting a sustainable low-carbon society. These products include ●H  igh frequency devices power devices that support higher efficiency of motor control and power ●O  ptical devices conversion for home appliances and industrial equipment. We also provide ●T  FT-LCD modules high-frequency devices used in a wide range of areas, from wireless and satellite communications, and optical devices to support high-speed optic communications to TFT-LCD modules that enhance information interfaces. In recent years, we have been providing state-of-the-art products that incorporate the use of silicon carbide (SiC), a material that significantly reduces power loss, with the aim of further contributing to the creation of a low-carbon society. Information Systems Contributing to the Realization of a Low-Carbon Society through the 10 & Network Service Group Promotion of Various IT Services The Information Systems & Network Service Group operates in a wide range of areas, from social and public systems to corporate systems. We are Main Products and Technologies involved in the entire lifecycle of information and network systems including ●C  loud services planning and design stages, construction, operation, and maintenance, ●S  ecurity solutions offering a one-stop IT service with optimal solutions that best suit ●E  RP solutions customers’needs. ●D  ocument management solutions Our objective is to propose solutions that reach the heart of a ●C  TI customer’ s management strategies and issues, as well as ideas that take into account current social issues. The aim, of course, is to improve customer satisfaction and achieve a sustainable society. 70 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Evaluation of the Importance of Environmental Issues In order to determine which environmental issues should evaluate the level of importance of key environmental be prioritized when reducing the environmental impact of issues. This assessment is made from two perspectives: our business activities, each of our ten business groups the likelihood of a risk or opportunity that could affect a (the organizational units for environmental management) business group and the magnitude of its impact. Image Chart of Evaluation The horizontal axis shows the likelihood of the emergence of a risk/opportunity, while the vertical axis indicates the magnitude of impact. The environmental issue with the highest importance is climate change for both risk and opportunity. Evaluation of Risk Evaluation of Opportunity (Magnitude of impact) (Magnitude of impact) Medium High Medium High Low Low Low Medium High Low Medium High (Likelihood) (Likelihood) Response to Environmental Issues Climate change Waste reduction Depletion of Air, water, and and management mineral resources soil pollution Proper management Conservation of biodiversity Deforestation Appropriate use of chemical substances of water Working to Achieve Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) In 2015, the United Nations set 17 global goals, collectively known as the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), that should be achieved by the year 2030. The Mitsubishi Electric Group has been working to achieve all of these targets throughout its business operations, and six of the goals in particular are closely related to its environmental activities. We will continue to focus our efforts on coming up with new ideas and creating new technologies for solving social issues from the environmental aspect. 71 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric 9th Environmental Plan (Fiscal 2019-2021) The Mitsubishi Electric Group implements a new For the 9th Environmental Plan, the following have environmental plan every three years, in which concrete been identified as key issues for making final touches to targets and initiatives for environmental preservation achieve Environmental Vision 2021, and efforts are being are set. made to realize it. Reducing CO2 from Production Contribution to Reducing CO2 from Product Usage We will push forward with Fiscal 2021 Target We will help reduce CO2 Fiscal 2021 Target 35% reductions in CO2 from emissions through reducing the Reducing CO2 compared Total emission of greenhouse gases from emissions from production (CO2 originating from production (CO2 equivalent) electricity consumed by product usage to use in by an average of fiscal 2001 1.47 energy), as well as reducing customers during product use. non-CO2 greenhouse gases (SF6, HFC, and PFC). million tons or less Contribution to reducing CO2 from product usage 7,000 million tons Effective Utilization of Resources Reducing Resource Inputs We will promote thorough waste Fiscal 2021 Target We will reduce the use of Fiscal 2021 Target separation, recycling, and greater efficiency of waste Final disposal rate in Japan Less than 0.1% resources (resource inputs) as a measure towards creating a Reduce resource inputs by an average of 40% collection and transport in order recycling-based society. to reduce final waste disposal. Final disposal rate overseas Less than 0.5% compared to fiscal 2001 Using Water Effectively Nature Conservation Activities Considering the increasing Fiscal 2021 Target We will continue to hold Fiscal 2021 Target importance of water resources, we Mitsubishi Electric Outdoor The cumulative number of participants in Reduce water usage per unit of Mitsubishi Electric Outdoor Classrooms set new targets. We will engage in Classrooms and proceed with sales by and the “Satoyama” Woodland thorough management of water the “Satoyama” Woodland 1% Preservation Project usage and drainage volumes, and Preservation Project. 51,000 per annum promote water savings and reuse compared to in Japan and overseas. fiscal 2011 or more Compliance with Environmental Regulations Improving the Level of Environmental Initiatives at Manufacturing Bases We will work to introduce alternative technologies in order to ensure We will strengthen the monitoring of compliance at all overseas compliance with RoHS2 chemical substance regulations in Europe. manufacturing bases and proceed with the development of technologies in response to various laws and regulations. 72 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Overall Environmental Impact Period : April 1, 2017 March 31, 2018 Scope of Data Compilation : Mitsubishi Electric Corporation, 107 affiliates in Japan, and 84 overseas affiliates (total of 192 companies) * Up to fiscal 2009, the scope of our report was limited to those companies that had drawn up an environmental plan for governance from an environmental conservation perspective. However, under the policy of expanding global environmental management, we have broadened the scope of the report to cover Mitsubishi Electric, its consolidated subsidiaries, and its affiliated companies. Materials for Manufacturing IN OUT Materials for Manufacturing Emissions (From Manufacturing) Mitsubishi Electric Affiliates (Japan) Affiliates (Overseas) Mitsubishi Electric Affiliates (Japan) Affiliates (Overseas) Materials *1 1,130,000 tons 280,000 tons 950,000 tons Water 6,930,000 m3 1,340,000 m3 1,300,000 m3 Controlled chemical substances 2.1 tons 0.0 tons 12 tons Manufacturing BOD (biological oxygen demand) 78 tons 4.6 tons 38 tons Discharge into water Electricity 1,100 million kWh 310 million kWh 410 million kWh COD (chemical oxygen demand) 16 tons 3.6 tons 124 tons Natural gas 25,110,000 m3 2,080,000 m3 11,640,000 m3 Nitrogen 79 tons 13 tons 8.2 tons LPG 954 tons 2,165 tons 716 tons Phosphorus 3.2 tons 0.2 tons 3.8 tons Oil (crude oil equivalent) 1,878 kl 2,377 kl 585 kl Suspended solids 78 tons 3.1 tons 56 tons Water 7,510,000 m3 1,620,000 m3 1,950,000 m3 n-hexane extracts (mineral) 1.8 tons 0.2 tons 0.0 tons Public water 1,230,000 m3 450,000 m3 640,000 m3 n-hexane extracts (active) 11 tons 0.2 tons 0.0 tons Industrial water 2,130,000 m3 79,000 m3 1,290,000 m3 Total emissions of zinc 0.2 tons 0.0 tons 0.3 tons Groundwater 4,150,000 m3 1,090,000 m3 13,000 m3 Carbon dioxide (CO2) 580,000 tons-CO2 170,000 tons-CO2 330,000 tons-CO2 Emissions into the atmosphere Others 0.0 m3 0.0 m3 3,000 m3 Controlled chemical substances (excluding amounts contained in other waste) 230 tons 253 tons 480 tons Reuse of water 3,290,000 m3 1,070,000 m3 170,000 m3 Controlled chemical substances Factory Ozone depleting substances 0.0 ODP tons 0.0 ODP tons 0.2 ODP tons (amounts handled) 4,592 tons 1,482 tons 6,458 tons Greenhouse gases 47,000 tons-CO2 32,000 tons-CO2 110,000 tons-CO2 Ozone depleting substances Volatile organic compounds 530 tons 274 tons 245 tons (amounts handled) 1.1 tons 0.1 tons 541 tons Sulfur oxide (SOx) 0.4 tons 0.2 tons 0.0 tons Greenhouse gases Nitrogen oxide (NOx) 588 tons 45 tons 22 tons (amounts handled) 3,086 tons 58 tons 4,594 tons Fly ash 0.4 tons 0.5 tons 9.4 tons Volatile organic Waste compounds 1,448 tons 1,073 tons 390 tons Total waste emissions 88,395 tons 46,298 tons 80,897 tons (amounts handled) Amount recycled 71,284 tons 36,761 tons 54,636 tons *1 Materials: Total value for shipping weight of products, plus amount of product Non-hazardous waste emissions 85,783 tons 45,649 tons 75,855 tons packaging materials used, plus total amount of waste. Hazardous waste emissions 2,612 tons 649 tons 5,042 tons Waste treatment subcontracted out 19,478 tons 19,342 tons 74,557 tons Final disposal 1.2 tons 2.4 tons 480 tons In-house weight reduction 687 tons 0.0 tons 209 tons Products Weight of all Products sold *2 990,000 tons 230,000 tons 760,000 tons Weight of packaging materials 54,000 tons 8,000 tons 100,000 tons *2 Products sold: Shipping weight of products. Sales and Logistics *3 Emissions *4 Mitsubishi Electric Affiliates (Japan) Affiliates (Overseas) Mitsubishi Electric Affiliates (Japan) Affiliates (Overseas) Fuel for trucks (gasoline) 10,393 kl 1,653 kl 3.0 kl Logistics Carbon dioxide (CO2) 97,000 tons-CO2 17,000 tons-CO2 310,000 tons-CO2 Fuel for trucks (diesel) 27,043 kl 5,118 kl 18,968 kl *4 Emissions: Includes one sales company in Japan. Figures for overseas affiliated Fuel for rail (electricity) 1,421 MWh 495 MWh 0.0 MWh companies include transportation between countries. Fuel for marine transport (bunker oil) 361 kl 2.0 kl 62,812 kl Fuel for air transport (jet fuel) 610 kl 29 kl 30,613 kl *3 Sales and logistics: Figures for overseas affiliated companies include transportation between countries. Energy Consumption Emissions Mitsubishi Electric Affiliates (Japan) Affiliates (Overseas) Mitsubishi Electric Affiliates (Japan) Affiliates (Overseas) Energy consumed during Amount of CO2 emitted during 24,050,000 1,630,000 11,550,000 product use *5 48,200 million kWh 3,200 million kWh 26,600 million kWh Products product use (converted value) *6 tons-CO2 tons-CO2 tons-CO2 *5 Energy consumed during product use: Total energy consumed (estimated value) (Customer) Amount of SF6 emitted during 127,000 ― ― when using 83 finished products targeted for CO 2 reduction. product use (corresponding value) *7 tons-CO2 The length of use (operating time) is set for each product according to statutory useful life, designed service life, statistical values, etc. *6 Amount of CO 2 emitted during product use (converted value): Sum of CO 2 emitted when using 83finished products targeted for CO 2 reduction. The amount of CO 2 emitted is equal to the energy consumed multiplied by the CO 2 emissions coefficient, for which the value shown in CO 2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion Highlights (2013 Edition) is used. *7 Amount of SF 6 emitted during product use (corresponding value): Sum of SF 6 gas naturally leaked during the operation of products (7) that use SF 6 gas for insulation. Leakage rate used is the value from JEAC5001-2000. Global warming potential value used is from the 2nd Revised Guidelines of the IPCC. End-of-Life Products *8 Resources Recovered *9 Mitsubishi Electric *8 End-of-Life Products: Recycling Mitsubishi Electric *9 Resources recovered: Weight of resources Air conditioners 15,320 tons Weight of products Metals 28,265 tons recovered from four types of Televisions 2,693 tons recovered from four types of Glass 658 tons appliances subject to Refrigerators 22,391 tons appliances subject to CFCs 302 tons Japan's Home Appliance Washing machines / Clothes dryers 6,246 tons Japan's Home Appliance Recycling Law, plus Recycling Law, plus Others 9,329 tons personal computers. Personal computers 50 tons personal computers. 73 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Greenhouse Gas Emissions along the Value Chain The Mitsubishi Electric Group refers to regulations such Japan’ s Ministry of the Environment, to determine how as the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol—an international to assess and calculate emissions from business activities standard for calculating greenhouse gas emissions—and (scopes 1 and 2, respectively) and indirect emissions from the Basic Guidelines on Accounting for Greenhouse Gas outside the range of its business activities (Scope 3). Emissions Throughout the Supply Chain published by Fiscal 2018 Greenhouse Gas Emissions The “ ” symbol denotes Mitsubishi Electric Group greenhouse gas emissions for which third-party verification has been carried out by SGS Japan Inc. Scope Category Accounting / 10,000 tons-CO2 Accounting summary*1 (Scope 3 Emission Rates) Direct emissions associated with fuel use at our Direct emissions from fuel use Scope 1 company ★ 31 and industrial processes at our company*2 Indirect emissions associated with use of Indirect emissions associated with use of electricity Scope 2 externally-purchased electricity and heating and heat purchased by our company*3 Market based ★ 98 Calculated using power emission coefficient based on contract Calculated using average power-generation Location based ★ 97 emission coefficient within the zone Indirect emissions outside the scope of our company’s Scope 3 operational activities Emissions associated with activities up to the manufacturing of materials, Category 1 Purchased goods and services 670 (15％ ) etc. relating to raw materials, parts, purchased products, and sales*4 Emissions generated by the construction and manufacturing Category 2 Capital goods 66 (1.5％ ) of own capital goods Fueland energy-related activities Emissions associated with procurement of fuel necessary for power generation, Category 3 not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2 8.5 (0.2％ ) heat supply, etc. and power such as electricity supplied by other parties Upstream transportation Emissions associated with logistic processes up to the delivery to our company of Category 4 and distribution 43 (1.0％ ) materials, etc. relating to raw materials, parts, purchased products, and sales*5 Emissions associated with transporting Category 5 Waste generated in operations 0.04 (0.0％ ) and processing waste produced by our company*6 Category 6 Business travel ★ 4.0 (0.1％ ) Emissions associated with employee business travel*7 Emissions associated with employees commuting to and from Category 7 Employee commuting ★ 2.9 (0.1％ ) their respective workplaces*8 Emissions associated with operation of leased assets hired by our Category 8 Upstream leased assets — company (Calculated by Mitsubishi Electric under Scope 1 and Scope 2) Downstream transportation Emissions associated with the transportation, storage, Category 9 and distribution 0.7(0.0 ％ ) cargo handling and retailing of products Category 10 Processing of sold products 0.2 (0.0％ ) Emissions associated with the processing of interim products by business operators Category 11 Use of sold products ★ 3.736 (82％ ) Emissions associated with the use of products by users (consumers/business operators) End-of-life treatment of Category 12 sold products 3.0 (0.1％ ) Emissions associated with the transportation and processing of products for disposal by users (consumers/business operators)*4 Category 13 Downstream leased assets 0.01 (0.0％ ) Emissions associated with operation of leased assets Emissions at companies operating as franchises Category 14 Franchises — (Not applicable to Mitsubishi Electric) Category 15 Investments 8.0 (0.2％ ) Emissions associated with operation of investments Total 4,543 *1 Excerpt from Basic Guidelines published by the Japanese Ministry of the Environment and *5 CO2 emissions associated with product distribution/circulation (sales distribution) Subject to Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry accounting: 55 companies (production sites) *2 CO2, SF6, PFC, and HFC emissions associated with the use of gas, heavy oil, etc., and with *6 CO2 emissions associated with transportation of waste (waste distribution) Subject to product manufacturing accounting: Mitsubishi Electric *3 CO2 emissions associated with the use of electricity, etc. *7 Results for Japan. Excludes CO2 emissions associated with actual use of taxis and *4 Excludes some regions accommodation *8 Assuming that all employees use passenger rail services 74 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Contribution to Reducing CO2 from Product Usage Effective Utilization of Resources We believe that reducing the electricity consumed by products In fiscal 2018, we focused on reducing the final disposal ratio, when customers use them should lead to energy savings especially overseas. With a target of a final disposal ratio of 0.5% for society as a whole. Based on this perspective, we are or less, initiatives for thorough separation of wastes and the committed to improving the energy efficiency of our products. expansion of recycling activities were implemented. In fiscal 2018, two areas—information and communication We ensured that hazardous wastes* were appropriately systems and electronic devices—reported notable progress disposed of according to laws and regulations while actively in energy savings. As a result, average reduction rates were promoting recycling. maintained at a high level of 35% compared to that reported * The Mitsubishi Electric Group defines hazardous wastes as follows: for fiscal 2001. Mitsubishi Electric and affiliates in Japan: “Specially-controlled industrial wastes” specified by the Japanese Waste Disposal Law. Reducing CO2 from Product Usage Overseas affiliates: Wastes determined by each affiliate as hazardous wastes based on local through Improving Energy Efficiency laws and regulations. CO2 CO2 Total Waste Output 35% 35% Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 reduction reduction Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Mitsubishi Electric 8.6 Mitsubishi Electric 8.8 We are also trying to expand the reduction of CO2 by visualizing the amount reduced as a result of replacing old products with their new counterparts that operate with higher Affiliates in Japan 4.7 Affiliates in Japan 4.6 energy efficiency. In fiscal 2018, contribution to reducing CO2 from product usage amounted to 71 million tons. Overseas affiliates 7.2 10,000 tons Overseas affiliates 8.1 10,000 tons Contribution to Reducing CO2 = Effect of reducing CO2 from product usage per unit × Number of units sold during the fiscal year Final Disposal Ratio Contribution to Reducing CO2 from Product Usage Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 CO2 CO2 Mitsubishi Electric 0.002 % Mitsubishi Electric 0.001% 6,900 7,100 0.01% million ton million ton Affiliates in Japan 0.01 % Affiliates in Japan reduction reduction Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Overseas affiliates 0.69 % Overseas affiliates 0.59% Reducing CO2 from Production Hazardous Wastes Emissions In fiscal 2018, our initiatives to reduce CO2 emissions originating from energy included the introduction of high-efficiency devices Fiscal 2018 and the expansion of new energy-saving technologies in Japan, and the adoption of technologies that have proven effective for saving energy in Japan to our overseas affiliates. Combined Mitsubishi Electric 2,612 tons with abatement and recovery of non-CO2 greenhouse gases (SF6, HFC and PFC), the total of all greenhouse gas emissions combined was substantially reduced. Affiliates in Japan 649 tons CO2 Emissions from Production Overseas affiliates 5,042 tons 134 127 26 19 Non-CO2 108 greenhouse gases 108 10,000t CO2 originating 10,000t from energy -CO2 -CO2 Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 75 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Reducing Resource Inputs Chemical Management and Reduced Disposal In fiscal 2018, all products in all segments saw steady We have identified a total of 3,264 controlled substances at reductions in resource inputs. Consequently, an impressive present and are comprehensively managing them utilizing a average reduction rate of 40% was achieved for 64 chemical management system that includes information on targeted products. parts and materials procurement. Reducing Resource Inputs Chemicals Used Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 40% 40% Mitsubishi Electric Mitsubishi Electric reduction reduction 141 types 4,116 tons 141 4,592 types tons Affiliates in Japan Affiliates in Japan Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 41 types 1,376 tons 41 types 1,482 tons Using Water Effectively In fiscal 2018, we carried out initiatives to save water in Japan and overseas, including the reuse of the warm water used in shipment testing for processing and cleaning components, and the use of treated wastewater for flushing toilets. Total Water Usage (Water Recycling Volume) Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Mitsubishi Electric 1,032 (317) Mitsubishi Electric 1,080(329) Affiliates in Japan 255 (94) Affiliates in Japan 269(107) Overseas affiliates 210 (18) Overseas affiliates 211(17) 10,000 m3 10,000 m3 Mitsubishi Electric Outdoor Classroom and Satoyama Woodland Preservation Project The Mitsubishi Electric Group cultivates an environmental mindset among its employees, using forests, rivers, parks, beaches, and other natural areas such as classrooms and lead participants in learning about the importance of nature in the“Mitsubishi Electric Outdoor Classroom.”We also encourage social service based on the employees’ sprit of volunteerism through our continuing“Satoyama” Woodland Preservation Project with the aim of restoring parks, forests, rivers, and other local nature spots Mitsubishi Electric Outdoor Satoyama Woodland surrounding our business sites. Our goal is to host 30,000 Classroom (Chugoku Branch) Preservation Project total participants by fiscal 2018 (10,000 participants in fiscal 2015 to 2017). A total of 5,000 people took part in, making the cumulative total 39,000 and achieving the plan. 76 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Developing Personnel to Proactively Engage in Environmental Activities We are working to develop personnel who think for biodiversity, and conduct the environmental management themselves what is required for the environment and act activities that form the pillars of Environmental Vision 2021. on it. Based on this, we will continue our environmental Under the 8th Environmental Plan (fiscal 2016 2018), activities in the years to come as we work to achieve we have implemented the Mitsubishi Electric Group Environmental Vision 2021 and our environmental plans. Environmental Management e-Learning course, the aim of In the area of environmental training, we have which is to improve the basic knowledge and awareness implemented various educational programs in two level of environmental issues. The program is offered categories: general education and specialized education. globally and provides the same contents in Japanese, The goal of the specialized education program is for English and Chinese so that all who take the course can personnel to acquire the knowledge and skills required learn using the same materials. to create a low-carbon, recycling-based society, respect Japanese English Chinese Environmental Education System Target General employees Managerial staﬀ Field Activities to foster environmental awareness Environmental Preserving biodiversity at business sites Awareness ● ● Satoyama Woodland Preservation Project Education ● Mitsubishi Electric Outdoor Classroom Key Environmental Environmental Management Personnel Training Chief Administrator Training Environmental Section Manager Training Specialized Education MELCO Seminar Environmental Courses ● Waste Management ● Design for the Environment ● Energy Conservation Law ● Biodiversity ● Chemical Substances Management ● Environmental Audits ● Environmental Regulations ● ISO14001 Environmental Training Course for Environmental Training Course for Employees in Their 20s or 30s New Section Managers General Environmental Course for Common Basic Training for Education Employees Dispatched Overseas New Enployees e-Learning for All employees, Mitsubishi Electric Environmental Management Environmental section manager training Developing nature protection leaders 77 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Group Biodiversity Action Guidelines Respect for Biodiversity The Earth's ecosystem is made up of diverse living established Biodiversity Action Guidelines, which add to the organisms. All aspects of human civilization benefit Group's environmental activities aimed at the creation of a from this ecosystem, but at the same time, we affect it low-carbon and recycling-based society from the perspective in both direct and indirect ways. Today, damage to the of biodiversity conservation. These guidelines define the ecosystem is said to be driving many species to extinction role of business activities in preserving biodiversity, and and otherwise eroding biodiversity. outline the Group's efforts toward the development of a In recognition of this, the Mitsubishi Electric Group has sustainable society through its business activities. Relationship between Business Activities and Biodiversity Input Output Raw materials Manufacturing CO2 Transportation Emissions into Other materials Greenhouse gases Metals Ceramics Impact on biodiversity Impact on biodiversity Chemicals the atmosphere Plastics Wood, etc. SOx/NOx Procurement Business Sales / Use Fly ash Design Electricity Maintenance Fuels Activities Waste Gas Oil, etc. Noise/Vibration Public water Recycling Recovery Wastewater Discharge Industrial water Groundwater into water Land use Action Guidelines Resources & Procurement Sales, Usage & Maintenance Recognizing that we utilize globally procured natural In our sales activities, we will work to promote better resources such as minerals, fuels and plants, we shall aim understanding among our customers of the impact to preserve biodiversity in Japan and around the world by that product/service usage and maintenance can have carrying out green procurement activities. on biodiversity. Product Design Collection & Recycling In designing our products and services, we shall promote We will actively develop recycling technologies and apply the effective utilization of resources and the efficient them to collected end-of-life products. use of energy, as well as aim to prevent the emission of substances that pose a risk to the environment. Understanding & Action We will deepen our understanding of the importance of Manufacturing & Transportation biodiversity and our relationship to it, and will actively and When commencing or making changes to land use, such voluntarily take actions necessary to coexist in harmony as when constructing factories or warehouses, we will with nature. give due consideration to protecting the biodiversity of the land in question. In manufacturing and transportation, Cooperation we aim to minimize energy use, waste generation and the All companies in the Mitsubishi Electric Group, including emission of chemical substances. overseas affiliates, will act as one, in cooperation with local communities, NGOs and governments. 78 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Promoting Three Initiatives to Realize a Society Living in Harmony with Nature ● Mitsubishi Electric Outdoor Classroom Regarding natural fields, including woodlands, river banks, parks and coastal areas as classrooms, our employees lead participating in learning the importance of nature. ●“Satoyama”Woodland Preservation Project As part of our social contribution activities built on employee volunteer spirit, this project is aimed at recovering local nature, including parks, woodlands and rivers around business sites, to its original state. ● Preserving Biodiversity at Business Sites At all business sites in Japan, we are promoting the preservation of local indigenous species, control of alien species, and improvement of greenery with biodiversity in the surrounding areas in mind. Field trip to observe nature with kindergarten children Activities at Business Sites for Preserving Biodiversity Action Guidelines Preserving biodiversity at business sites forms one pillar the Guiding Principles set up according to the Aichi of the 8th Environmental Plan, and our goal is to educate Biodiversity Targets *1 and the results of the survey employees so that they think and take action with regard we conducted up to fiscal 2018, we started full-scale to the impacts business activities have on ecosystems and conservation of cultivate native species, management of the diversity of living organisms. nonnative plants, and biodiversity conservation activities We have set out three courses of action as action such as improvement of greenery areas considering the guidelines for each business site as shown in the table surrounding ecosystem. below. At all our domestic production sites, based on Trends in Actions Examples A 1．Control development pressure*2 （1）Environmental assessment Reducing negative and alien species pressure*3 （2）Alien species control impact on living （1）Disclosure of list of living creatures on creatures premises 2．Call attention to and preserve rare species （2）P  reservation of rare species and and endemic species endemic species （3）Cooperation in regards to conservation issues for surrounding areas （1）Control the killing/harming of 3．Manage pesticides living creatures B 4．Set up functional greenery （1）Land used by flying organisms Aiming for more fruitful （1）Contribute to ecosystem of surrounding areas （2）Priority land for greenery and living symbiosis with other creatures living creatures （3）Provision of continuity with areas （2）Enhance quality of urban ecosystem surrounding premises （4）Cooperation in regards to issues for surrounding ecosystems （1）Diversification/multi-stratification of 5．Break away from industrial orientations such as vegetation simplifying/specifying greenery （2）Management of greenery appropriate for plants （1）Provision and utilization of C 6．Proactively utilize ecosystem services in the opportunities for cultural services Restoring the workplace (break rooms, individual floors) （2）Provision and utilization of relationship between opportunities for supply services employees and 7．Change situation from everyone being （1）Education for understanding and promoting action nature in the working disinterested and unrelated to everyone being （2）Creation of relationships through the environment involved workplace or work duties *1 T he global target that is the core of the Strategic Plan for Biodiversity 2011-2020 adopted at the tenth meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity held in Nagoya, Aichi Prefecture in October 2010. *2 Development pressure: An action resulting in the destruction of habitats. The construction of a new business site and development (including that in the supply chain) intended to extract natural resources are deemed as such behaviors. One such example is when the use of water by operations affects the surrounding area, the source of water, and subsequently the habitats of living creatures. *3 Alien species pressure: When ditches, greenery at the side of buildings, and hedges are created, non-native species of insects, vegetation, etc. may be introduced. The unintentional transfer of living creatures could pose a threat to the habitats of indigenous species or trigger genetic pollution. 79 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Responsibility to customers Basic Policy The Mitsubishi Electric Group is committed to improving Seven Guiding Principles define our actions in response its technologies and services by applying creativity to all to society and customers. It teaches us to establish aspects of its business, to thereby enhance the quality relationships based on trust, provide the best products of life in our society, as stated in our corporate mission. and services with unsurpassed quality, and respond to This commitment inherits the principles outlined in the customer expectations through technology by promoting Keys to Management (in Japanese, Keiei no Yotei) with research and development and pioneering new markets. regard to our contribution to social prosperity, quality Under these principles, we constantly strive to improvement, and customer satisfaction, and forms increase customer satisfaction and contribute to social the basic spirit of our relationship with society and prosperity in all aspects of our business, from the our customers. production of high-quality, easy-to-use products to our To give concrete shape to this basic spirit, the after-purchase support and response to major issues. Four Basic Quality Assurance Principles Our commitment to quality, as referred to in the Seven in 1952. The spirit of serving society through steady Guiding Principles, is reflected in the Four Basic Quality quality continues to be upheld by each employee of the Assurance Principles laid down as a means of realizing Mitsubishi Electric Group up to the present day. the corporate motto of Service through Quality adopted ＜Four Basic Quality Assurance Principles＞ 1. Product quality is our top priority. It comes before price and on-time delivery. 2. Whatever the sacrifice, our commitment to quality does not waver. 3. Products must be safe to use, have a long usage life, and have consistent performance. 4. Every manager and employee involved in manufacturing a product shares equal responsibility for product quality. Based on the Corporate Statement and the Seven Guiding Principles, the Mitsubishi Electric Group promotes initiatives to ensure product safety under the following principles: ＜Product Safety-related Principles＞ 1. We will not only comply with the laws related to product safety, but also work on offering safe and reliable products to our customers. 2. We will prevent product-related accidents by indicating cautions and warnings to help customers use our products safely. 3. We will work actively to collect information about product-related problems, disclose them appropriately to our customers, and report them quickly to the government and other bodies as required under the law. 4. If any serious accidents occur resulting from product-related problems, we will take appropriate measures to avoid further damage. 5. We will investigate the cause of product-related accidents and work to prevent any recurrence. 6. We will make continuous efforts to improve our product safety promotion system. Particularly in regard to consumer products, Mitsubishi products are prone to break or be discarded). At the Electric is committed to preventing serious hazards that same time, our Customer Service Center in Japan operates could result in death, injury, fire, or other damage, by 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, to assist customers and subjecting all products to a quantitative risk assessment gather their views about Mitsubishi Electric products. at the development stage, while also designing and Furthermore, we disclose accident information, including developing products in consideration of their end-of-life information on the status of ongoing investigations, on our management (to ensure safety even at the stage where Japanese official website. 80 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Management System Based on the Four Basic Quality Assurance Principles, compliance with quality assurance legislation and standards we have established a system for quality assurance and and further develop quality improvement activities. improvement activities throughout the entire Group, Worldwide manufacturing bases take responsibility including the appointment of a quality assurance promotion for the quality assurance of each product and are manager in all business group headquarters. We have implementing concrete improvement measures. At the Promotion also of Quality formulated assuranceand qualityAssurance Improvement guidelines Activities to ensure level of management, we also regularly report on the President status of quality at meetings of executive officers. Worldwide manufacturing bases take responsibility Executive Officer in Charge for the quality assurance of each product and are of Quality Assurance Executive Business Group Business Group implementing concrete improvement initiatives in relation Officers’ Meeting General Manager of Business Group General Manager of Business Group to quality assurance measures (quality management) for Head Office processes at each stage, from market surveys regarding Corporate Quality Assurance Quality Assurance Quality Assurance Liaison Committee Manager Manager Mitsubishi Electric products, through product planning, Corporate Quality development and design, manufacturing, transportation, Assurance Managers’ Factory Factory storage, installation, maintenance and servicing, and Planning Department Committee Factory Manager Factory Manager education, to the disposal of the product. Quality Assurance Quality Assurance In addition, in operating our Quality Management Manager Manager System (QMS), we regularly check our PDCA cycle with Individual quality improvement projects and activities reference to ISO and other international certification standards, seeking to realize ever higher quality by Promotion of Quality Assurance and Improvement Activities process improvement. (in Mitsubishi Electric alone) Quality Improvement Activities The Mitsubishi Electric Group incorporates consideration verification of operational processes (design, procurement, for quality into products from the design and development production), responses to failures and legal compliance, stage, promotes activities to improve quality in all and management of laws, regulations and standards. processes—including manufacturing, shipping and afterWe have also built a database for sharing qualitysales service—and works to make ongoing improvements related information that is used by the entire company. in product quality, safety and reliability. It consists of information provided by prior employees In particular, initiatives were launched in fiscal 2012 to on past problems, lessons learned, explanations, and develop human resources who are capable of assessing and examples of improvements that have been made, and verifying customer requests and basic product functions at it has proven effective in helping to build quality into the development and design stages, understanding designs products, implement quality improvement measures, that ensure and guarantee functionality, stability, safety prevent the occurrence or recurrence of problems, and and reliability, and executing and driving the process of train young engineers. Based on cases where there were incorporating and designing quality. These initiatives are problems, we also developed an e-learning tool called being pursued in all relevant departments in Japan with Learning from Problems and installed a quality room in an eye to achieving their intended achievements in human each office for the display of actual quality defects found in resource development by fiscal 2021. products in the past, to supplement employee education. With regard to affiliates in Japan and overseas that Furthermore, we are achieving effective quality engage in production, installation and maintenance, improvements by visualizing quality in all production initiatives were also launched in fiscal 2012 for onsite processes from the design to production and after-sales service stages, ensuring prompt response to malfunctions and preventing them from occurring, and providing feedback of these initiatives to the development and design departments. Quality room Learning from Failure (Database of past incidents and lessons) This program is set up so that users can systematically browse and utilize lessons, precautions, improvement case studies, and countermeasures from a managerial perspective and the perspective of Entrance Inside the room their technological field. 81 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Providing Easy-to-Use Products Basic Policy The Mitsubishi Electric Group engages in universal design comfortable living in the true sense of the words, we are under the principle of creating user-friendly products committed to providing products and living environments and comfortable living environments that benefit as many that offer a high level of satisfaction to as many people people as possible. To achieve user-friendliness and as possible. Universal Design that Provides Ease of Use Universal Design is an approach that aims to create designs The need for universal design has also grown in the that can be used easily by as many people as possible. industrial sector, a field traditionally characterized by Mitsubishi Electric evaluates its products from many professional workers who handle equipment. The working perspectives, considering whether they are simple and environment in this field has begun to change, with an easy to understand, have easy-to-recognize displays and increase in the number of older workers, foreign workers, layouts, have been given sufficient ergonomic consideration and nonskilled laborers. In response to this situation, in terms of comfortable posture and minimal physical Mitsubishi Electric widely applies universal design principles load, and are safe and convenient. In this way, we strive to its industrial products, including factory automation (FA) to manufacture products that are easy to use and result in equipment and electric power equipment, as well as to the more comfortable lifestyles. installation and maintenance of such products on the shop Imagining use by various people, we have continuously floor. applied universal design and allowed it to evolve in the In fiscal 2018, a number of Mitsubishi Electric products production of home appliances like air conditioners and developed based on evaluation tests targeting a diverse televisions as well as products used by the general public, range of users were well received at the IAUD Awards, such as elevators. The Uni & Eco business strategy was organized by the International Association for Universal introduced for home appliance products in fiscal 2005. In Design. The Mitsubishi elevator touch panel-style elevator fiscal 2011, targeting expansion of the market to include hall registry control panel took the gold award. Other elderly users in their 70s, we developed a series equipped prizes were awarded to products including the Mitsubishi with the RakuRaku Assist function. RakuRaku Assist air conditioner ZW/ZXV series, the Oven/Grill with voice incorporates the latest convenience functions in a way that navigation ZITANG range grill with voice guidance, and a is fun and easy to use. A continuation of this is the Smart car navigation system that provides better user assistance Quality initiative launched in fiscal 2013. Additionally, for and reduces danger during collisions(NR-MZ300PREMI). elevators, we are developing voice-activated operation Mitsubishi Electric products were awarded a total of and other functions for visually impaired users and users in seven prizes. wheelchairs. In fiscal 2019 as well, we will continue to sensibly and ingeniously apply universal design in the creation of products throughout our wide-ranging business domain. 82 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Universal Design Examples to Date Universal Design Guidelines for widespread usability To promote greater usability of our products by Structure of the Universal Design Guidelines all users, including children, the elderly, and people 1. Recognition: consideration for ease of understanding with physical disabilities, we formulated guidelines grounded in surveys and research on changes that occur 2. Identification: consideration for ease of reading and/or hearing to human characteristics with age. The guidelines give consideration to these changes mainly in terms of the 3. Physical use: consideration for comfortable posture following The main three are distinguished by large, noticeable buttons. and minimum physical load perspectives. functions Consideration for ease of Consideration for Recognition Consideration for Identification reading and/or hearing Physical use comfortable posture and ease of understanding minimum physical load E.g.) E.g.) E.g.) Buttons with easy-to-understand functions Large characters easy even for Easy-to-hold handle shape for each product (Television remote control with record function) aged persons to read We have named Main characters/numbers the buttons after their functions (what the user 電源 Conventional Load-reducing wants to do) Lower pistol grip Lower grip 7.5 mm or more back handle back *Rovi, G-GUIDE, and the G-GUIDE logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Power Vacuuming posture with Vacuuming posture with Rovi Corporation in the bent lower back extended lower back United States and/or its Load on lower back Minimal load on lower back affiliates in Japan. RakuRaku-IH Cooking Heater (home appliance equipped with RakuRaku Assist) This Mitsubishi Electric product in Japan incorporates features such as large characters, visual and aural notification, and easy maintenance, which are three concepts of revolutionary ease of use based on Universal Design Guidelines. RakuRaku-IH Cooking Heater CS-G20AKS Large characters & numerical indicators of steps for use Safety sensor & audio support <Features> <Features> Characters are approximately 1.8* times the size of Built-in sensor checks for people in vicinity. our conventional system. (Compared with Mitsubishi Offers audio support for ease of operation. Electric's conventional model G38MS) Can be operated simply by pressing buttons in order of numbers displayed. Safety sensor & audio support Large-character buttons & numerical indication of steps for use 83 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric MELSEC L-Series Programmable Logic Controller (PLC) designed for use even by less-experienced workers Mitsubishi Electric's MELSEC L-Series general-purpose PLCs  he terminal arrangement is printed to display wiring T function as factory computers, and deliver the following groups, for intuitive function display. three advantages to meet the needs of a wide variety of The unit employs UD fonts, with large character display users, by delivering both the productivity improvements that is well contrasted from the background color, to demanded by veteran workers and also the ease of use prevent wiring errors. needed by less-experienced laborers. Text is displayed in English/Japanese on the LCD screen, making it easy for even less-experienced workers to deal with on-site trouble. Printed to illustrate wiring groups Characters and displays are easy to read Text-based information display is easy to understand UD-Checker Original System for Universal Design Evaluation UD-Checker is a tool that can be used by both industrial development. designers and engineers to evaluate for universal design The UD-Checker is used on a wide variety of qualities. This tool shows four quantitative measures of Mitsubishi Electric products from home appliances and universal design, indicating specific design aspects for public equipment to industrial equipment. development and improving the efficiency of product Check sheet of UD-Checker Results sheet of UD-Checker 84 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric VOICE (In charge of universal design) UX Design Foundation Group Solutions Design Div. Industrial Design Center Mitsubishi Electric Corporation Yuka Yamazaki Observe the user, and think from their standpoint. This is what we abide by the most when developing products from the standpoint of universal design. We design products by incorporating usability evaluations and other scientific approaches while listening to people who will actually use the products. Each user is different, and the situations they use our products in, along with their intended purposes, differ from user to user. Based on our commitment to deliver usability suited to every individual, we aim to spread that usability to as many people as possible. We will continue to devote our efforts to the development of universal design, with hopes that our products also deliver happiness to large numbers of people. Creating easy-to-understand instruction manuals Under a campaign to provide first-rate instruction Mitsubishi Electric's original Guidelines for the creation manuals, the Mitsubishi Electric Group is directing its of instruction manuals for home appliances—Instructions. efforts to creating easy-to-read and easy-to-understand To raise the quality level of instruction manuals, this instruction manuals to ensure the safe and comfortable handbook is distributed to all affiliates in Japan who use of our products. Forming the basis of this effort is handle home appliances. Example instruction manual: Mitsubishi Electric Kirigamine FL Series room air conditioners Our Quick Guide (Basic Operations) enlarges each button, large font sizes and ample margins make the explanations allowing users to recognize at a glance which button they extremely easy to understand. should push on their remote control. In addition to this, Instruction manual for Mitsubishi Electric Kirigamine FL Series room air conditioners (Japanese only) 早わかりガイド（基本操作） 風あて・風よけ・ムラなし ムーブアイが人の位置を検知し、人を中心とした空調を行います。 ご エアコンを使ってみる 使 風あて ：人のいるエリアを中心に風を届けます。 用 の 運転を開始する 風よけ ：風あたり感を少なくします。 前 運転モード ムラなし ：人のよくいるエリアを学習し、その生活エリアの温度ムラを に 抑えます。 冷房・暖房兼用セパレート形（インバーター） を押す 風あて・風よけ・ムラなしを選択した場合、左右風向・上下風向は自動 三菱ルームエアコン 設定温度 で働きます。 または運転モードボタン 風あて・風よけ 使 使 い を押す い か を押す か INSTRUCTION MANUAL た を押したときは前回と同じ運転を行います。 押すごとに 解除 の順に変わります。 た 取 扱 説 明 書 使 い か 風あて 風よけ 形名 た エム エス ゼット エフエル エス エム エス ゼット エフエル エス MSZ-FL2818 MSZ-FL3618 温度や除湿の強さを変える ※ご購入時の設定は 「風あて」 です。 MSZ-FL4018S MSZ-FL5618S MSZ-FL6318S MSZ-FL7118S を押して温度、除湿の強さを ムラなし エム エス ゼット エフエル ブイ エス エム エス ゼット エフエルブイ エス 調節する MSZ-FLV2818 MSZ-FLV3618S お を押す MSZ-FLV4018S MSZ-FLV5618S 押すごとに温度は0.5℃ずつ、除湿の強さは１段階ずつ 手 変わります。 入 MSZ-FLV6318S MSZ-FLV7118S れ 設定できる範囲 押すごとに 解除 の順に変わります。 ＜冷房・暖房＞ ＜除湿＞ ムラなし 詳 し く 温度：16〜31℃ 除湿の強さ： 知 り 除湿運転時、お部屋の温度はやや下がります。 た い おしらせ ● 体感を「切」 に設定すると、風あて・風よけ・ムラなしは設定できません。 21ページ 困 運転を停止する ● 風左右・風上下を調節すると、風あて・風よけ・ムラなしは解除されます。 14ページ っ ● 個別の体感温度コントロール た ・風あて設定時に2つの離れたエリアにいる人の体感温度に差があるときは、上下風向フラップの角度を自動で調整して風の強さを と 変えることにより、個別の体感温度コントロールを行います。 き を押す ・前後に隣接したエリアに人がいるときや3か所以上のエリアに人がいるときは、個別の体感温度コントロールを行いません。 このたびは三菱ルームエアコンをお買い求めいただきまして、 まことにありがとう この製品は、日本国内用に設計されていますので、国外では に ● 風あては冷房では頭上、暖房では足元に向ける風向になり、直接体にはあたらないことがあります。 風よけを設定しても、風あたりが気になる場合は風左右・風上下で風向をお好みに調節してください。 ございます。 使用できません。 ● ● ご使用の前に、この取扱説明書をよくお読みになり、正しくお使いください。 また、アフターサービスもできません。 （上ブタを開いた状態） ● 引越しやお部屋の模様替えをした場合、生活エリアをリセットしてください。 ● 保証書は 「お買上げ日・販売店名」 などの記入を確かめて、販売店からお受け This appliance is designed for use in Japan only 運転中にリモコンの を約5秒間長押しすると ピピッ と鳴り、生活エリアがリセットされます。 取りください。 and can not be used in any other country. ●「取扱説明書」 「保証書」 と は大切に保存してください。 No servicing is available outside of Japan. 運転の詳細は 26、27ページ 停止中にリモコンの を約3秒間長押しすると、お掃除アシストになります。 22ページ ● お客さまご自身では据付けないでください。 （安全や機能の確保ができません） 12 13 Quick Guide (Basic operations) 85 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Increasing Customer Satisfaction Basic Policy Customer satisfaction has been a priority management customer satisfaction surveys as appropriate to principle of the Mitsubishi Electric Group since its the characteristics of each business operation, and founding in 1921. Inheriting this spirit, we will continue incorporate customer opinions into improving product to make dedicated efforts to satisfy customer needs in development, marketing strategies, and services. all aspects of our business activities, from the creation of We also strive to maintain customer satisfaction high-quality, easy-to-use products to our after-purchase by strengthening our repair/service systems, providing Flow of responses to customereffective support and response to major issues. inquiries staff training, and expanding access to We collect feedback from our customers through information via our websites. Inquiry concerning a purchasing Provision of inquiry matter information Customer Relations Center Works Response Provision of product knowledge Inquiry concerning Request Repair and request for servicing Design Customer repair for repair company Provision of Store repair (distributor) Service information Response Response Call Center Manufacture Onsite Feedback of Request for repair repair improvement information Quality Response Walk-in and technical repair knowledge Flow of responses to customer inquiries (in Mitsubishi Electric alone) CS Activities by the Home Appliances Group (in Japan) out customer satisfaction (CS) improvement activities in purchase, and strives to increase the number of such Japan. It makes sure that customers across the country satisfied customers. are satisfied with the Mitsubishi Electric product they The beginning of CS activities related to home appliances The CS Department at Mitsubishi Electric was established enhance its products, marketing strategies, and services. in Japan in July 1993. In addition to assuring product Each works conducts satisfaction surveys of its major quality and optimum product usability and functionality, products using questionnaires to product purchasers and the department engages in CS improvement activities questionnaires to employee monitors. The results of these with strong awareness of the significance of customer surveys are shared within the Group and reflected on satisfaction. Mitsubishi Electric quickly proceeded to create sales and development strategies. the necessary climate, systems and tools that would 86 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Understanding customer satisfaction A customer's selection, purchase, and use of a product ◦Contentment...... The product satisfies the customer's involve a number of different departments, such as needs and requirements the development, manufacturing, sales, and service ◦Emotion............... The customer acquires a new value departments. Customer satisfaction cannot be achieved if from the product a customer is discontent with any aspect of this process, The ultimate form of customer satisfaction is achieved or if there is any weakness in the departments concerned. when a product exceeds customer expectations and Customer satisfaction increases in the following order. provides an emotional benefit. The key to achieving Customer Checkpoints ◦Assurance........... The customer is assured that the customer satisfaction is to therefore assess and satisfy product is not flawed or defective customer expectations. Three Types of ① Advertising Customer Satisfaction Consultation ② Before purchase about purchasing Products ③ Purchase Enhance customer satisfaction Installation and ④ use Increase number of repeat customers Sales Service Customer ⑤ inquiries During use ⑥ Repair service End of ⑦ Disposal product life Customer checkpoints Taking calls 24 hours a day, 365 days a year To satisfy customer expectations, it is necessary to think The Technical Support Call Center, which responds of customers throughout the sales, service, development, to technical inquiries from distributors, and the Repair and manufacturing stages, and to quickly detect and Service Station, the stronghold of repair services operated respond dynamically to signs of market changes. As one by Mitsubishi Electric System & Service Co., Ltd., also strategy to provide a response to customers in Japan respond to inquiries 365 days a year (excluding some when they require one, in October 1998, Mitsubishi regions). Electric extended the service hours of its Japan Customer As the relations center receives a wide array of inquiries Relations Center to 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. every year due to the diversification of product functionality, Previously the center responded to inquiries concerning we are constantly reinforcing staff members, and are product usage only during daytime hours from Monday making consistent efforts to provide proper training. through Saturday except on holidays. Today, the Customer Relations Center and Service Call Center operate 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. Service Call Center Customer Relations Center Repair Service Station 87 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric System of reviewing customers' comments The content and results of consultations and repair end of each day. They are used to improve both products requests from customers and details of technical inquiries under production and development, and to provide repair are sent as feedback to the manufacturing works at the information to distributors. Customer relations center Customers' comments that are collected by the Customer the release of a new product, efforts are made to convey Relations Center are entered into a database and customers' expectations, wishes, and dissatisfactions analyzed in terms of trend, and the analysis results are regarding the new product to relevant departments in regularly sent to relevant manufacturing plants, sales a timely manner, so they may review the feedback as companies, and research institutes. Manufacturing plants quickly as possible. and sales companies utilize this information in their At the same time, regular liaison meetings are held ongoing efforts to improve existing products and to make between each manufacturing plant and Customer websites, catalogs, and instruction manuals even easier to Relations Center to identify medium-term issues that are understand. Research institutes utilize the information to brought to light by customers' comments and enhance refine products that are under development. Particularly their cooperation in collecting further information. with respect to information that is obtained following Manufacturing plants At Shizuoka Works, where Mitsubishi Electric criteria or incorporating them into measures for improving manufactures air conditioners, quality improvement efforts product control specifications. are made by arranging opportunities for development As an example, our unique sensory temperature engineers to personally hear the opinions of customers control was developed based on customers' comments, and provide feedback to their product development. More with some customers saying the air conditioner is too specifically, Shizuoka Works actively invites questions weak, and others saying it overcools. We looked into this and comments from customers, or when a quality issue issue and found that in addition to ambient temperature, occurs that is thought to be of high technical difficulty, humidity and floor temperature also affect sensory directly visits the customer's home to inspect the product temperature. With regard to the noise of outdoor units, installation environment. we found that not only the loudness but also the nature There are many cases where customers' comments of the noise also makes a difference in how noise is have benefited product development. With air actually heard, and thus incorporated this concept in our conditioners, most inquiries are related to how to use the development evaluation criteria. product and problems with cooling and heating functions. We will continue to refer to customers' opinions Therefore, direct visits are made to customers' homes to as we continue to accumulate a history of Kirigamine personally hear their inquiries, and such visits are used to air conditioners. improve product quality by reflecting the results in design Kirigamine FZ Series room air conditioner MSZ-FZ4018S Airflow control that can adjust sensory temperature delivers optimum comfort to each user. 88 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric CS Activities by the Building Systems Group (in Japan) The Building Systems Group handles elevators and Systems Group continues to pursue the highest level of escalators that provide vertical transportation within quality in relation to safety, comfort, efficiency, safety, buildings and building management systems. By ensuring and the environment in its overall business activities their safety and security and continuously delivering (sales, development, manufacturing, installation, and comfortable means of transportation and living spaces as maintenance), making use of our advanced technologies indispensable social infrastructures on a global scale, we and environmental expertise. By this means, we are able to contribute to making society even more vibrant and affluent. provide our customers with optimal solutions and a level of Under the slogan Quality in Motion , the Building security and reliability that wins their complete satisfaction. 24-hour, 365-day Safety Hotline Information centers of Mitsubishi Electric Building Techno-Service Co., Ltd. Mitsubishi Electric Building Techno-Service, one of Moreover, by monitoring changes in data on the Mitsubishi Electric's group companies in Japan, specializes operational status of elevators and air-conditioning in the maintenance of elevators, escalators, and other facilities, we can detect and address abnormalities before such building facilities. This company's information centers they develop into a malfunction and prevent problems provide a safety hotline for response in cases of trouble, from occurring. such as failure signals and telephone calls from customers. Mitsubishi Electric information centers situated in eight locations throughout the country constantly monitor remotely the status of contracted customers' building facilities. When an error signal is received, the system provides information on the current locations, works in progress, and even the technical levels of approximately 6,000 engineers, so that the most appropriate engineer closest to the customer's building can be located and dispatched to the site immediately. The system also supports the quick recovery of building functions, by taking actions such as e-mailing information on the history of repairs and other matters related to the building to the engineer, or processing urgent orders for parts. Information center Mitsubishi Elevator and Escalator Safety Campaign Elevators and escalators are used to transport a large management methods and emergency responses. These and indefinite number of persons, so a high level of safety meetings have been attended by more than 300,000 is imperative, and they are thus required to be equipped people to date, and will continue to be held as an with various safety devices and functions. important safety activity of the Mitsubishi Electric Group. At the same time, to ensure safe operation, it is necessary to maintain the functioning of elevators and escalators through regular maintenance and inspection, and for people to use them correctly. Based on this awareness, Mitsubishi Electric Building Techno-Service not only performs maintenance and inspection as appropriate, but has also been holding a safety campaign since 1980 to increase understanding of the proper usage of elevators and escalators among users and to promote their safe usage. We also hold explanatory meetings for users, to teach children, senior citizens, people with disabilities, and other such users the proper and safe way to ride elevators and escalators, as well as explanatory meetings for apartment and building owners and managers, with a focus on daily Mitsubishi Elevator and Escalator Safety Campaign 89 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Inazawa Works SOLAÉ showroom The showroom attached to the 173-meter-tall SOLAÉ elevator testing tower receives visitors from facility owners, design offices, and construction companies—as well as children from the local community—and having them see, feel, and experience actual Mitsubishi Electric products and technologies that are fundamental to building operation, the showroom communicates the safety and security of Mitsubishi Electric's products. The elevator and escalator zone on the first floor introduces visitors to the history of elevators and escalators, and, using actual elevator and escalator units, provides a survey of subjects ranging from their basic structure to the latest products and technologies that ensure their safety, security and comfort. Visitors are also able to experience the sense of speed of the world's fastest elevator* using computer graphics projected onto a huge monitor. The building management system zone on the second floor allows visitors to experience technologies including the latest building management and security systems. * Installed in Shanghai Tower (based on internal research of elevators in operation as of March 2018) SOLAÉ elevator testing tower SOLAÉ showroom VOICE (in charge of health and safety in Thai) Manager of the training center Mitsubishi Elevator (Thailand) Co., Ltd. (Thailand) Kanitpong Sarcon Mitsubishi Elevator Thailand obtained certification in ISO 9001:2015 (quality), ISO 14001:2015 (environment), and OHSAS 18001:2007 (safety) as a package. This provides a useful tool for explaining our level of quality and reliability when making sales presentations to customers. The training center I supervise is the largest in the region, and is in full operation, providing education and training in the installation and maintenance of elevators and escalators on a daily basis to our employees, the employees of sales companies, and representatives of customers who so desire. As the member of staff responsible for overseeing the training center, I strive every day in planning effective education and training programs and realizing the acceptance of our customers, and I devote my full energies to perfecting the facility. 90 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Responding to Product-Related Issues Basic Policy In the event of an issue, we place top priority on not inconveniencing our customers, and take action based on a system that ensures prompt and accurate responses and measures. Policies for Notification and Information Collection, and the Repairs and Recalls of Products If we receive any report of a major issue occurring in a all the relevant products that were sold are returned and product that we have sold, we have a system in place repaired, and apply these efforts to a wide array of sales that includes the top management to ensure quick and channels. accurate decisions on the steps and measures to take, so In Japan, we promptly release appropriate information that we can take proper action while placing top priority on issues in consumer products, which directly and deeply on not inconveniencing our customers. For recalls in affect consumers. particular, we work on an ongoing basis to ensure that Reporting Major Product Issues (in Japan) A detailed list of information pertaining to important product-related and quality issues is posted on Mitsubishi Electric's Japanese-language official website. Accident Reporting Based on the Consumer Product Safety Act Detailed information on our compliance with Japan's Under our policy regarding the disclosure of accident revised Consumer Product Safety Act, which went into information, we also disclose information on cases that Flow of response to accidents effect in May 2007, is available on Mitsubishi Electric's are under investigation. Japanese-language official website. Accident Mitsubishi Electric Group occurrence Information obtained Works Head Office (incl. management levels) Customer Malfunction Malfunction Relations information received information received Center Investigation of the Fire cause of malfunction Department / (incl. examination of actual Police product, onsite examination, Customer / Distributor Department etc.) Corporate Review conference review conference Diagnosis of Diagnosis of product malfunction product malfunction Serious product accident Joint investigative Consumer Affairs commission Agency Non-serious Business group decision product accident NITE Action / Reporting Customer service Reporting department Ministry of Economy, Action Trade and Industry Information provision Consumer Affairs Website Announcement Agency, etc. Flow of responses to accidents (Mitsubishi Electric Group) 91 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Human rights Human Rights Policy Mitsubishi Electric Group Human Rights Policy September 20.2017 Protection of human rights and support for other reason . internationally agreed human rights are imperatives As the Mitsubishi Electric Group continues to for the Mitsubishi Electric Group's business activities. expand its business globally, in accordance with the Accordingly, as members of the Group, we recognize spirit of the Mitsubishi Electric Group's Corporate our duty to prevent any complicity with human rights Mission and Seven Guiding Principles, it has violations. On that basis, the Mitsubishi Electric established this Human Rights Policy and shall raise Group enacted its Corporate Ethics and Compliance awareness of human rights among its members and Statement in 2001 and pledged that all executives and make sure to properly deal with related incidents in members of the Group will conduct ourselves always order to ensure that its business activities do not have with a respect for human rights, will not discriminate a negative impact on human rights. based on nationality, race, religion, gender, or any 1. The Mitsubishi Electric Group recognizes that, human rights, or its members are found to have as a minimum, it must respect international been clearly involved in violations of human rights. standards related to human rights, such as 3. The Mitsubishi Electric Group has identified CSR the International Bill of Human Rights and the materialities, has set concrete tasks and goals International Labour Organization's Declaration on for those materialities, and works to achieve Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. On them, and, through that process, takes steps to that basis, we shall respect human rights while ascertain the status of its initiatives related to making sure to adequately understand relevant respect for human rights, and properly discloses laws and regulations in every country and region its findings. where we do business. If such laws and regulations do not conform to 4. The Mitsubishi Electric Group shall work to ensure international standards related to human rights, that its initiatives related to respect for human we shall consult with local authorities on how to rights are implemented with the participation of properly handle cases involving human rights in all executives and employees. Furthermore, the order to respect the international standards. Group shall request cooperation from various stakeholders involved in its whole value chains 2. Based on the United Nations Guiding Principles on such as business activities, products, and services, Business and Human Rights, the Mitsubishi Electric in order to help promote respect for human rights Group shall undertake human rights due diligence in society at large. measures, such as specifying and assessing the impact of its business activities on human rights, 5. The Mitsubishi Electric Group shall implement and studying ways of proactively preventing or training programs and awareness campaigns on mitigating any negative impact of those activities. a continuous basis for the purpose of ensuring Furthermore, the Group shall put a framework in that all executives and members of the Group place for rectifying any cases in which its business understand initiatives related to respect for human activities are found to have negatively impacted rights, and conduct themselves accordingly. Code of Corporate Ethics and Compliance—Respect for Human Rights Basic Principle We will respect human rights with an awareness that our activities are widely interrelated with peoples and societies in all countries and regions where we do business. ● Principle concerning child labor and forced labor employment and personnel treatment based on race, In all countries and regions where we do business, ethnicity, nationality, gender, age, beliefs, religion, social we will not use child labor or forced labor under any status, disability, or any other form of discrimination. circumstance or form of employment. At the same time, we will regularly check our own ● Principle concerning discrimination language and behavior to prevent any misunderstanding In all countries and regions where we do business, or doubt regarding our stand on human rights. we will not tolerate any discrimination relating to 92 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric ● Respect for individuality ● Principle concerning labor relations In all countries and regions where we do business, we We will comply with laws and regulations relating will respect the individuality of each employee and to employment, personnel affairs, working styles, will not engage in any act that disregards the person's wages, working hours, and immigration control in all individuality, such as harassment, defamation, slander, countries and regions where we do business, as well or compelling the person to do work through threats. as with relevant in-house regulations and procedures, At the same time, we will regularly check our own to maintain and improve sound labor conditions and language and behavior to prevent any misunderstanding workplace environments. or doubt regarding our stand on human rights. ● Principle concerning personal information protection ● Principle concerning health and safety in the workplace In all countries and regions where we do business, we We will comply with relevant laws and regulations in will collect and properly utilize personal information all countries and regions where we do business, as well only through legitimate and appropriate means, and as with in-house regulations and procedures, to create only when necessary. We will also do our utmost to safe and comfortable workplace environments where prevent illegal access, leakage, loss, and falsification of everyone concerned can work comfortably. Particularly personal information. when engaging in production activities and construction works, we will make every effort to secure health and safety in cooperation with affiliated companies, cooperating companies, customers, and suppliers. Human Rights Management Status of Present Initiatives and Future Issues Human rights responses according to international norms The Mitsubishi Electric Group established Policies on due diligence on human rights in conformance with the Respect for Human Rights in September 2017 and declared UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, and its commitment to ensure human rights responses that creating a corrective mechanism in the event it comes to match international norms. In particular, we are striving light that a company’ s action or involvement has inflicted to implement measures to prevent and mitigate adverse an adverse impact on human rights. impacts on human rights. To do so, we are conducting Specific initiatives In fiscal 2019, the Mitsubishi Electric Group will launch their human rights responses as part of their initiatives to human rights due diligence initiatives by identifying and promote CSR procurement. evaluating impacts on human rights (a human rights In fiscal 2020 and beyond, we will promote these impact assessment) at all company sites. We will also initiatives further, and plan to create a system that also explore ways to improve the mechanism for receiving includes the supply chain in preventing and mitigating grievances from those who have suffered a human rights adverse impacts on human rights. The program will violation and provide an avenue for relief (a grievance include follow-up evaluations of the initiatives for human handling mechanism). At the same time, all suppliers rights responses. along our supply chain will be requested to strengthen Response to the UK's Modern Slavery Act In fiscal 2017, Mitsubishi Electric Europe B.V. and made to ensure information disclosure and strengthen Mitsubishi Electric Air Conditioning Systems Europe Ltd. relevant initiatives. Due consideration is also given to the issued a statement in response to the Modern Slavery Act UK Gender Pay Gap Report. that was enacted in the UK with the aim of eradicating Statement by Mitsubishi Electric Europe B.V. forced labor, human trafficking, and other such acts that Statement by Mitsubishi Electric Air Conditioning Systems constitute modern slavery. Continued efforts will be Europe Ltd. 93 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Harassment Training Mitsubishi Electric provides ongoing training programs regarding human rights to new employees and newly appointed managers, as part of its efforts to ensure a healthy workplace environment that is free of discrimination or harassment. Particular emphasis is placed on harassment prevention training for newly appointed managers, as they bear an important responsibility as managers to maintain and improve their workplace environment. The programs include not only lectures that provide information about sexual harassment, power harassment and maternity harassment, but also lectures that allow managers to identify any harassment issues in the workplace, such as by introducing specific case examples of harassment. Those who attend the program actively engage in creating a comfortable working environment for employees, by making certain there are no harassment issues in their Lecture on Respect for human rights and the active workplace, as is their responsibility as managers. participation of diverse human resources Human Rights Awareness Activities Mitsubishi Electric provides a human rights awareness appointed managers, a program has been implemented training program to all new employees, with a view to that promotes understanding of the basic principles developing an organizational culture where a diversity of of human rights and Mitsubishi Electric's human rights people work actively with mutual respect for each other. initiatives, and that includes lectures on specific issues In one instance, we organized a human rights training regarding human rights, such as harassment, discrimination program for members of the CSR Expert Committee (Head against disabled people, and the Dowa social integration Office management departments) with Mr. Shimotaya, issue. Managing Director of Sustainavision Ltd. and an expert Through such programs, we are striving to raise in human rights issues, as guest lecturer, to deepen awareness of human rights in the minds of new employees understanding of trends in worldwide human rights issues from an early stage after joining the company, so when and international human rights norms. they are assigned to their workplace, they can act with a Additionally, for new employees who have just sense of respect for human rights while engaging in their become full-fledged members of society and newly daily duties. VOICE (CSR manager in the EU) Manager Strategic Planning and Corporate Communication MITSUBISHI ELECTRIC EUROPE B.V. Hans-Joerg Hinkel Within the MEU Corporate office I am in charge of our CSR activities and follow CSR related developments in Europe, for example as the representative in the JBCE CSR Committee in Brussels. One topic within the Human Rights sphere that has been very prominent lately is the prevention of slavery, which even in this day and age is wide-spread. While several European countries have issued related legislation, the most notable and comprehensive law in this context is the Modern Slavery Act, which came into force in the UK in 2015. It requires companies to investigate their operations and supply chains for existing acts of slavery as well as to take actions to prevent them from occurring in the future. Since 2016 companies also have the obligation to publicly issue an annual Modern Slavery Statement in which they for instance have to state the actions taken in the previous year to combat Modern Slavery. As MEU we of course take the prevention of slavery very seriously and for example have introduced an e-learning program, which educates our colleagues about where and how to spot signs of slavery in the modern day work environment. 94 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Labor practices Basic Policy on Human Resources Basic Policy Mitsubishi Electric actively recruits employees to maintain of strengthening business, technological capabilities, a proper personnel structure over the medium to long marketing capacities, and manufacturing power. term, and to achieve further global expansion of its All recruitment activities are implemented in growth areas, which are centered on power systems, compliance with the guidelines on recruitment and transportation systems, building systems, FA systems, selection of undergraduate and postgraduate students automotive equipment, space systems, power devices, who are scheduled to graduate or complete their and air-conditioning systems. master's courses, outlined by the Japan Business Affiliated companies in Japan also implement plans for Federation (Keidanren). continuous recruitment of employees from the standpoint Active Employment on a Continuous Basis Mitsubishi Electric plans to employ a combined total year since fiscal 2013, and will continue to employ the of 1,190 new graduates in October 2018 and April 2019. same scale of people with an eye to achieving an even We have employed more than 1,000 new graduates every higher level of growth. Recruitment plan of the Mitsubishi Electric Group (as of March 2018) 1. New graduates (Unit: no. of people) October 2016 and April October 2017 and April October 2018 and April 2017 (result) 2018 (projection) 2019 (plan) Engineering positions 650 650 690 Sales & administrative 220 220 230 positions Technical positions 270 270 270 Mitsubishi Electric 1,140 1,140 1,190 April 2017 (result) April 2018 (projection) April 2019 (plan) Affiliated companies in Japan 1,500 1,500 1,500 Total 2,640 2,640 2,690 2. Mid-career Hires (Unit: no. of people) Fiscal 2017 (result) Fiscal 2018 (projection) Fiscal 2019 (plan) Mitsubishi Electric 550 550 550 Affiliated companies 1,200 1,000 1,000 in Japan Total 1,750 1,550 1,550 3. Ratio of women among new graduates in engineering positions at Mitsubishi Electric (alone) Fiscal 2018 (result) Fiscal 2019 (projection) Fiscal 2020 (plan) Fiscal 2021 (target) 11% 13% 15% 20% 95 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Basic Personnel Data Employment Situation Employment situation of the Mitsubishi Electric Group （1）Consolidated data (as of March 31, 2018) Segment No. of employees (persons) Energy & Electric Systems 45,919 Industrial Automation Systems 32,399 Information & Communication Systems 15,131 Electronic Devices 5,588 Home Appliances 26,000 Other 12,005 Common 5,298 Total 142,340 （2）Data for Mitsubishi Electric Corporation alone (as of March 31, 2018) No. of employees Average age Average number of Average annual years worked income 34,561 employees (incl. 3,249 women) 40.2 years of age 16.3 years 7,924,292 yen [7,413 employees] Segment No. of employees (persons) NOTES: 1.  Employees refers to all personnel Energy & Electric Systems 8,630 who are working. The number of temporary workers is indicated in Industrial Automation Systems 9,538 terms of average number per year and provided in brackets ([ ]) as a Information & Communication Systems 4,987 separate number not included in Electronic Devices 2,161 the total number. 2. A verage annual income includes Home Appliances 5,022 bonuses and extra wages. Other 0 3. T here is no difference in the amount of remuneration between Common 4,223 men and women under Mitsubishi Electric's personnel treatment Total 34,561 system. Relationship with Labor Unions Mitsubishi Electric and Mitsubishi Electric labor unions mutual negotiations, the company and labor unions strongly realize that it is important for them to cooperate establish a management council and labor council, and in promoting the company's growth and improving endeavor to seek resolutions by holding thorough rational the working conditions of labor union members based discussions on equal footing, as a basic principle. on an awareness of the company's social mission Group companies also share the principle of holding and responsibility, and to form and maintain a laborthorough rational discussions between labor and management relationship founded on mutual sincerity management, and endeavor to maintain and improve and trust. Based on this realization, they enter into a labor sound working conditions and workplace environments contract by consent of both parties and mutually comply in compliance with labor-related laws and regulations with the contract in good faith. concerning employment, personnel affairs, work duties, Under the union-shop system, employees (excluding wages, working hours and immigration control in the management level employees) become union members countries and regions where they do business, as well as after completing a trial period, as a rule. To facilitate with internal regulations and procedures. 96 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Workforce Diversity Basic Policy Within today's rapidly changing workforce environment, diversity of people, given the increasingly aging and providing a workplace where employees can work to diminishing population in Japan. Based on this awareness, their full potential regardless of gender or age is essential Mitsubishi Electric promotes employee diversity through to business development. Furthermore, it has become the following measures. more vital than ever before to employ an even greater Women's Participation Personnel structure (Mitsubishi Electric alone) To formulate and implement original measures that would help female employees and employees Female 10.5% with children form a career while also enriching their personal lives, Mitsubishi Electric established the CP-Plan* Promotion Center within its Corporate Human Resources Division in April 2006, with a mandate to promote Male recruitment, training, assignment, and institutional 89.5% initiatives from a diversified perspective. ※Career management & Personal life well-balanced Plan Gender ratio (entire Group) Trend indata Basic the number(Mitsubishi Electric alone) of female employees Trend in the number of female managers (Mitsubishi Electric alone) (at or above section manager level; Mitsubishi Electric alone) (No.) (No.) 2000 8.0% Number of female employees 70 1800 7.0% Ratio of female employees 60 1600 6.0% 1400 50 5.0% 1200 40 1000 4.0% 800 30 3.0% 600 20 2.0% 400 1.0% 10 200 0.0% 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2006 2007 2008 2009 2000 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) (FY) Trend in the number of female employees (Mitsubishi Electric Trend in the number of female managers (at or above section alone) manager level; Mitsubishi Electric alone) Initiatives for Even Greater Participation of Women Career forum for young female employees A career forum (CP-Plan Forum) is offered to young female employees to think and act on their own and female employees, to actively inspire them to form a promotes personal networking (attended by approx. 330 career around life events such as childbirth and childcare. employees in FY2014, approx. 210 employees in FY2016, Through a lecture personally given by the president approx. 120 employees in FY2017 and approx. 120 on the managerial significance of promoting women's employees in FY2018). participation, stories of senior employees' personal In addition to this forum that is held at the Head experiences, and group discussions, the forum urges Office, exchange events are also held in some offices. Strengthening management capacities Various efforts are made to raise management's for newly appointed managers, to disseminate an awareness of women's participation and strengthen understanding of the managerial significance of women's management capacities. For example, a curriculum on participation and considerations to be heeded in the women's participation is included in the training program management of female subordinates. 97 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Handbook on supporting work/childcare balance for employees and supervisors 社外秘 Various initiatives are in place so that employees who 上 司と部 下 仕 事と育 児 の 両 立 支 援 have taken childcare leave can smoothly return to the workplace and perform to the maximum of their ability ハ ンド ブック 上 司と部 下 h a n d b o o k while caring for their children. For example, a handbook is 仕 事と育 児 の 両 立 支 援ハンドブック ─本人･職場双方にとっての「幸せな両立」を目指して─ distributed both to these employees and their supervisors, and regulations require that these employees have the opportunity to meet with their supervisors periodically before and after returning to their positions. Handbook on Supporting Work/ Childcare Balance for Employees and Supervisors Training in management of female employees A management training program for managers supervising female employees has been implemented in several research centers. It aims to strengthen management's capacity for maximizing the potential of female employees by promoting greater awareness of developing female employees as part of the medium to long-term workforce, while giving consideration to life events unique to women and providing an opportunity to think about how this can be done through their relationships with managers. Training in management of female employees Active recruitment of female students inscience (organization of events and production of pamphlets that specifically target women in science) Mitsubishi Electric makes active efforts to recruit female Various events are organized to actively disseminate students in science, based on a target of achieving genuine perspectives on working at Mitsubishi Electric. a more than 20% female ratio in new recruits from These include exchange forums where female students engineering fields by FY2021, as stated in the company's in science can interact with female employees at various Action Plan, pursuant to the Act Concerning Promotion of stages in their life, from junior employees to employees Women's Career. who have children, and seminars designed to introduce day nurseries and other in-house facilities at Mitsubishi Ratio of women among new recruits for Electric to female science students. Attendees also engineering fields (Mitsubishi Electric alone) receive pamphlets that introduce Mitsubishi Electric's female engineers. are also distributed. Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019 9% 11% 13% ※October hires and April hires Exchange forum with female engineers Pamphlet for female science students 98 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Principles and Initiatives for Developing Global Human Resources To become a global company that employs global human resources As a global company, Mitsubishi Electric has 205 same time, companies in Japan are actively promoting consolidated affiliates in Japan and overseas, employing the employment of foreign employees. Around 10 to 20 some 57,000 overseas employees, which corresponds foreign employees are employed on a continuous basis to 40% of the total number of employees of the Group every year, and a cross-cultural training program is offered as a whole. Particular attention is given to personnel regularly, to be attended in pairs with a senior Japanese assignments and development, with the aim of becoming employee from the same workplace, so that foreign a corporate body where employees of the entire Group employees can work actively and comfortably in Japan. can maximize their potential and are able to realize their Future initiatives will also provide training on Mitsubishi personal career plan. More than 100 overseas employees Electric's corporate philosophy, including its corporate from ten to twenty countries are invited to receive training mission, values, and history in both Japan and overseas at a Mitsubishi Electric manufacturing facility (plant) in to strengthen awareness of corporate principles that all Japan every year, to acquire technologies, skills, and employees of the Mitsubishi Electric Group worldwide know-how. Upon their return to their companies, a cycle ought to share. is put in motion that leads to greater independence of Today, local staff members account for more than each overseas affiliate and greater employee engagement. 40% of all executive officers (above the level of general An initiative is also in place to provide a roughly twomanager) in overseas affiliates. Mitsubishi Electric week training program in Japan to selected overseas continues to widely promote the placement of human employees who hold promise as future management resources in positions that are suitable for them, be they executives. Participants, who acquire knowledge and a local staff or expatriates of Mitsubishi Electric (Japan), for network of personal connections in Japan, return to their managerial positions in overseas affiliates. company and engage in greater levels of work. At the Employees dispatched under the overseas OJT system (FY2010 – FY2019 (planned)) As part of the effort to develop human resources in Japan the overseas OJT system. In recent years, an average of capable of working at the global level, Mitsubishi Employees Electric dispatched under the100 overseas OJT have employees system been dispatched to various locations employees are dispatched to affiliated companies under around the world every year. (no.) North America Central/South America 120 Europe Middle East Southeast/South Asia, Oceania East Asia 103 100 100 92 15 91 87 15 18 16 80 17 73 65 34 36 16 24 27 60 14 27 2 1 45 2 24 40 19 3 14 24 24 32 25 25 28 5 2 17 4 4 10 13 1 13 1 3 4 4 6 20 1 11 12 5 3 12 26 22 1 19 19 19 1 14 15 9 11 7 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (forecast) Employees dispatched under (FY) the overseas OJT system Employees have also been dispatched to English-speaking countries, Chinese-speaking countries and Spanish/Portuguesespeaking countries, as shown below, for foreign language training. Employees dispatched to attend foreign language training overseas Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 94 101 90 98 103 99 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Multi-Track Personnel System from the Core Career Track Providing Diverse Employment Formats (for unionized forworkers) Older Employees Employees in their fifties can choose one style of working from among various options In Japan, Mitsubishi Electric instituted a multi-track personnel system in fiscal 2002, which makes diverse Life Design 50 (Age 50) employment formats possible by allowing employees aged 50 and over to choose from among a variety of options. Preparation for a new “Career Plan” The options include financial assistance for an employee's life after retirement option (Age 56) second life following retirement, a second life support program that provides two years of paid vacation, and Retirement extending employment up to the age of 65 through a reRetirement at employment program. “Second Life” support system standard age ( routine procedures ) retirement We also offer an annual lifestyle design training session at each of our business sites to employees turning 50 and ( leave of absence, lump sum payment ) Re-hired (at adjusted wage rates) their spouses. The sessions encourage employees to take Retirement Retirement for an interest in planning the rest of their lives and designing a rewarding lifestyle by providing information on pensions and ( routine procedures ) retirement re-hired workers (Age 65) retirement benefits, social insurance, taxes, hobbies, health, Multi-track personnel system from the core career track (for and other topics, and by facilitating group discussions. unionized workers) Promoting Employment of People with Disabilities In October 2014, Mitsubishi Electric established Melco cleaning service, café, business card, food service, and Tender Mates Corporation, a special subsidiary* that health promotion (massage) businesses, and employs 52 specializes in businesses mainly suited to people with people with disabilities as of March 15, 2018. It plans to intellectual disabilities. As of March 15, 2018, people with establish a cookie factory as a second location in FY2018, disabilities comprised 2.21 % of the total workforce at and to gradually expand its businesses to increase its Mitsubishi Electric and its special subsidiaries combined. employment of employees with disabilities. The company name of Melco Tender Mates ※Special subsidiary: A subsidiary which, if certain requirements Corporation expresses the principle that able-bodied are met, is regarded as the same business entity as its parent employees and employees with disabilities are equal company and whose rate of employment of people with partners in the workplace and peers who mutually care disabilities is calculated in consolidation with that of the for each other. The company mainly engages in the parent company. Cafe business Cookie manufacturing Business card production VOICE (Melco Tender Mates instructor) Instructor, Café Group, Division 2 Melco Tender Mates Corporation Kaori Oshige I work with employees who have a disability and take particular care to support them so they develop a sense of ambition and the spirit of hospitality. In particular, I make a constant effort to create a congenial workplace environment that not only makes daily communication easier but also deepens mutual trust and, through personal interviews, leaves not even the slightest change unnoticed. I myself try to understand the views of the employees I instruct and the various matters that arise from many perspectives, by taking the time to hold weekly exchanges of views with instructors of other groups such as the business card group and the meal delivery group. We discuss issues related to instructing employees with disabilities. 100 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Creating a Fulfilling Workplace Basic Policy In the context of intensifying global competition, the that increasing employee satisfaction leads to greater Mitsubishi Electric Group upholds a management policy achievements by employees and organizations driven by of strengthening global business competitiveness toward increased employee motivation and productivity. This achieving sustainable growth, and implements various inevitably leads to greater customer satisfaction (CS), management policies to realize the Group's growth stronger competitiveness, and better performance. strategy. Enhancing and creating measures that maximize Employee satisfaction underlies Mitsubishi Electric's employee achievements is essential for the Group to personnel policies. At the same time, there are policies secure a sustainable advantage in competition with other such as those described below that are implemented in companies. response to the trends of the times, social circumstances, Achievement = ability × motivation. To strengthen and changes in the management environment and employee motivations, it is necessary to increase personnel frameworks. employee satisfaction (ES). Mitsubishi Electric believes Compensation System Based on Individual Job Descriptions and Performance In Japan, Mitsubishi Electric has adopted a compensation workforce utilization, in order to provide opportunities Organic Combination of Components system with a view to developing a corporate culture in for employees to develop their own skills and advance which employees each recognize organizational targets as theirthrough careers.Management Enhancements well as their own roles, work to raise their own value, and take on the challenge of difficult goals. Under this compensation system, employee performance is emphasized, with appropriate assessment Evaluation/ given to employees who contribute substantially to Compensation management and participate actively in it. Bonuses are Remuneration/Status awarded for outstanding service. In order to increase Results New challenges understanding of employees about the operation of the assessment system, we fully disclose its evaluation methods and standards, conduct surveys on the functioning of the 3-in-1 system to gauge employee opinion on it, provide a system system Capacity for handling complaints, and otherwise work to increase Effective development understanding and acceptance by employees and further Workforce Utilization Specializing enhance operations. Acquisition of roles/ (by personal initiative + opportunities company support) We are committed to making the system function effectively by organically combining and harmonizing Realization of the three components of the system, evaluation/ one’s potential compensation, capacity development, and effective Organic combination of components through management enhancements Transfer Opportunities at the Request of Employees In order to assign the employees to positions that are Specifically, we launched Job-Net on our company suitable for them and provide transfer opportunities at intranet to allow employees to build a career plan on the request of employees, Mitsubishi Electric instituted their own. The site posts information on recruitment and an intranet-based recruitment system and a system skill development training at Mitsubishi Electric and Group that allows employees to publicize their request to be companies as well as companies outside the Group. transferred. 101 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Promoting Communication in the Workplace At Mitsubishi Electric in Japan, each employee sets based on evaluation of performance, and the placement individual goals based on the policies and objectives of and utilization of human resources, to promote improved the organization or division to which they belong, and a communication in the workplace. system for reviewing employee roles and performance is We also place value on a corporate culture in which implemented to track the progress of those goals through labor and management share an understanding of the communication between employees and their managers. status of business, management strategies, and personnel Under this system, regularly -scheduled interviews take management policies, working together to address issues placeare held in which employees and managers discuss through labor-management meetings and committees. such topics as the employee's development and training Motivating Employees with Bonuses for Inventions (in Japan) In line with provisions in the Japanese Patent Law, is established to deliberate on petitions from employees Mitsubishi Electric has established an employee invention concerning their bonus, and an Invention Evaluation bonus system to motivate employees to create inventions. Committee is established to discuss the amount of cash Regarding inventions made by employees during the reward to disburse for inventions that contribute to course of their work, the Company pays patent filing and business. registration bonuses to those employees as a reward. In addition to the above, a program for rewarding If the inventions are out-licensed to another company, outstanding inventions and industrial designs also the relevant employees also receive utilization bonuses encourage inventions by employees. Each year, this from the Company. If inventions that have contributed to program honors inventions and industrial designs, and the Company's business win an award from outside the those that are judged as especially outstanding receive Company, the relevant employees receive a cash reward commendation from the president. appropriate to the award, with no upper limit set. ※An easy-to-understand description of the employee invention Furthermore, to maintain fairness and transparency of bonus system and its provisions are posted on the company Intranet for access by all employees. the system, the criteria of the employee invention bonus system is disclosed, an Invention Consultation Committee 102 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Maintaining a Favorable Working Environment Basic Policy Japan's working population is expected to dramatically under these circumstances, it will be essential to create decrease in conjunction with its aging and declining a working environment where all employees can work to population, and there is apt to be a further increase in the their full potential within their limited time. number of employees, both men and women, who work Various initiatives are in place at Mitsubishi Electric to while caring for children or elderly members of their family. create a working environment where all employees can In order for Mitsubishi Electric to survive through the tough work actively while maintaining a good work-life balance. international competition and realize sustainable growth Support for Flexible Working Styles Development and availability of childcare and family-care programs in japan Mitsubishi Electric is making every effort to fully establish treatments. There will also be an extension to the scope a work-life balance support system that more than of the program that allows employees to take an absence satisfies the legal requirements, and to develop workplace from work to take care of sick children who are under conditions that allow employees to comfortably do their elementary school age, to also include children who are jobs and raise children or care for elderly family members. currently in elementary school. Our childcare leave program can be extended to the To raise employee awareness of these initiatives, we month of March following the child's first birthday, or until actively disseminate relevant information through a portal the end of September at the longest. We also have a site, which features a range of information on work-life program that allows employees to work shorter days when balance, such as a list of support systems for employees raising their children, and this program can be extended up raising children (see chart below), and interviews with until the end of March in the year the child graduates from working mothers. We make this information available to elementary school. Our family-care leave program allows employees, managers, and new hires, aiming to create employees with families that meet the requirements to an environment that is conducive to using these support take a leave of absence for more than three years. It also 【6-3-5】Maintaining a Favorable Working Environment systems. Along with enhancing our programs, we will work allows employees to work shorter days for up to three to foster a workplace culture in which employees can years to help them take care of their families. In addition, enrich Work-life theirbalance personal lives while support measures advancing related to their careers. childcare when the employee is the spouse of an expectant mother, the spouse may take up to five days of special paid Enrollment in Graduation from leave. There is also a program to provide the spouse with Life stage Pregnancy Childbirth Child elementary Grade 4 elementary age 1 school school special paid leave to use in certain circumstances such as Temporary-leave system for fertility treatment to participate in a child's school event, a work-at-home Reduced working hours during pregnancy (women only) program for employees providing family care, as well as a Absence due to sickness (women only) re-hiring system for employees who have temporarily left Prenatal absence (women only) the company to provide family care. Furthermore, we have made it possible for employees Paternity leave (men only) to take half-day absences from work to care for elderly Loan system for childbirth family members or attend to a sick child, and have Lump-sum allowance for childbirth and childcare introduced a reduced working hour system that allows Postnatal absence (women only) employees to work shorter hours on a certain day of Childcare allowance every week, as one form of reducing working hours for (excluding managerial class) family care. We have also relaxed the requirements for Childrearing time our work-at-home program so that employees may work Childcare leave at home up to two days a week to care for elderly family Benefits during childcare leave (Mitsubishi Electric Ryoyukai) members or children who are still in primary school. Reduced working hours In fiscal 2019, we will further support the workfor childcare life balance of our employees by expanding the scope Homeworking system of leaves for a specific purpose (self-support leaves) to Self-support leave include PTA activities. We will also be introducing an hourly Nursing absence leave system that allows employees to take up to 40 Plan selection hours off from work per year and expand the work-fromRe-employment system home system. In addition, we will support the development of the next generation by introducing a temporary leave (As of April 2017) Work-life balance support measures system for employees who wish to undergo fertility related to childcare 103 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Diamond Kids Day-care centers To support the career development of employees raising corresponding to the workplace, catering to extended children, Mitsubishi Electric opened Diamond Kids, an hours, and ensuring security measures that prevent onsite day-care center, in Kamakura City, Kanagawa intrusion by suspicious individuals as well as accident Prefecture and Amagasaki City, Hyogo Prefecture on prevention measures, Diamond Kids offers a childcare October 1,2014, with an enrollment of approximately 10 environment that allows employees to fully concentrate children in each center. on their jobs without worrying about their children. It also By providing its services in locations adjacent to a promotes employees' return to work after taking a leave, Mitsubishi Electric workplace on days and during hours by accepting children all year round. Name Diamond Kids Shonan Diamond Kids Itami 5-1-1 Ofuna, Kamakura City, Kanagawa 6-9-22 Tsukaguchi-honmachi, Amagasaki City, Hyogo Prefecture Location Prefecture Within the Mitsubishi Electric Health Insurance Association Within the Information Technology R&D Center Itami General Gymnasium BRIO Facility area Floor space: approx. 100m2 Enrollment capacity Approx. 10 children Children's ages Ages 0 (children over 57 days old) up to enrollment in primary school Eligibility Mitsubishi Electric employees (not restricted to women) Operating hours 8:00 – 18:00 (extended hours up to 21:00) Other Programs Flextime Self-support leave Flextime allows employees to decide on their working Employees who do not use up their annual paid vacation hours for themselves so that they may improve their time by the end of the fiscal year may accumulate up to productivity and exercise creativity, and thereby achieve 20 days of unused vacation time and carry them over to a good balance between their corporate life and personal the next fiscal year and onward. life. The program may be utilized depending on the Those who receive company approval to take more specific duties and job performance of each employee. than three days off from work to recuperate from an Working hours are divided into core time and illness, engage in family care, take part in a volunteer flexible time. Core time is a band of time during which all activity, etc., may acquire a self-support leave. employees must be present in the office as a rule unless special circumstances exist. Flexible time is a band of time within which employees may choose when they arrive and depart from the office in consideration of the progress of their work and fluctuations in workloads. Specific time bands are determined by each office. Utilization  status of childcare and family care programs (by Mitsubishi Electric employees) (Unit: No. of employees) No. of employees FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 who have taken a leave Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total Childcare leave 11 215 226 12 237 249 24 273 297 Acquisition rate of leave of absence (%) — 99% — — 98% — — 98% — Reduced working hours for childcare 6 341 347 5 348 353 11 368 379 Reduced working hours during pregnancy — 8 8 — 13 13 — 11 11 Family care leave 5 4 9 3 4 7 7 4 11 Reduced working hours for family care 4 5 9 5 4 9 4 8 12 Prenatal and postnatal absence — 138 138 — 142 142 — 182 182 Paternity leave 643 — 643 658 — 658 735 — 735 Nursing absence 13 5 18 18 8 26 13 15 28 104 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Creating a working environment where work-life balance can be achieved by everyone through a Work Style Reforms Since fiscal 2017, Mitsubishi Electric promotes a Work During the first two years of the initiative, companyStyle Reforms as a management policy, and strives to wide efforts were made to fully disseminate and create a working environment where work-life balance establish the initiative. We provided information and can be achieved by everyone by creating a corporate promoted employee awareness through posters, inculture that places even greater emphasis on house newsletters, the internal website and other such achievements and efficiency and reforming employees' tools, and implemented an education campaign to raise attitudes toward work. awareness of Work Style Reforms for employees in Each department, organization and office implements managerial positions. In February 2017, the President’ s specific measures that promote the reform of working Forum on Work Style Reforms was launched, in which the styles based on the following four perspectives. president of Mitsubishi Electric makes a round of all offices to personally explain the objectives and importance of Four perspectives on Work Style Reforms the initiative to all employees. In addition to this Group-wide initiative, each office also implements activities that suit their specific situations. Four perspectives on Work Style Reforms Improvement of productivity Further pursuit of by streamlining operations achievements and efficiency ・Thorough elimination of waste based on the ・Establishment of an awareness to produce principles of JIT Kaizen activities (reduction results within a limited amount of time of conferences, documents and travel time, ・Development of a scheme to evaluate review of operational processes, etc.) productivity and efficiency, and strengthening ・Increased utilization of IT for operational efficiency the implementation of proper evaluation Promotion of communication Work-life fulfillment in the workplace ・Sharing the awareness that a “fulfilling life” ・Sharing the status of operations in the and “rewarding work” are closely related workplace through daily greetings and ・Applying the knowledge and mental/physical communication health that are gained through having a fulfilling ・Promotion of work-load alleviation through mutual life to achieving a rewarding work experience cooperation between individuals and departments, as well as reviews of work allocation ※JIT (Just in Time): Small-group activities that aim to increase Work Style Reforms productivity by thoroughly eliminating operational inefficiencies. Examples of office-specific activities ● Lectures for management personnel by external lecturers ● Establishing conference rules (50 minutes as a rule, no meetings to be held after 5 p.m., etc.) ● Introducing condensed work times ● Introducing Refresh Wednesday to promote work-life balance At Mitsubishi Electric, Head Office management departments play a central role in streamlining and increasing the efficiency of company-wide operations by promoting the following specific measures. 1. Developing an IT environment ● Introducing tablets and eliminating paper documents from executive meetings ● Providing mobile terminals to employees in all offices who need them ● Implementing of video conferences for meetings between remote offices and reduction of business trips ● Realizing flexible working styles by expanding the work-at-home program ● Promoting the use of smartphones outside the company (schedule confirmation, verification tasks, etc. 2. Simplifying and reducing company-wide documents ● Simplifying documents by shortening discussion times and schedules in management meetings ● Reducing the number of periodic reports (weekly reports, monthly reports, etc.) issued by each department ● Reviewing report formats 3. Promoting indirect JIT improvement activities ● Analyzing operations by external consultants and implementing JIT improvement activities company-wide 105 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric President's Forum on Work Style Reforms To accelerate the promotion of Work Style Reforms of top management about Work Style Reforms, and in each office, a dialogue meeting titled President's the direction the company aims to take, are conveyed Forum on Work Style Reforms is held in sequence in directly to employees by the president. The meetings also each area since February 2017 as an opportunity for collect onsite feedback on the issues each office faces in the president and employees to engage in dialogue on promoting reforms and corporate matters, collecting and Work Style Reforms. In these meetings, the thoughts incorporating them into viable policies. President's Forum in 2017(1) President's Forum in 2017(2) 106 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Supporting Career Development Basic Policy A company is its people, and cannot grow without believes it is important to link the expertise, skills, their growth. The development and utilization of human and mentality it has cultivated as an organization to resources is the source of a company's development, and maintaining and strengthening corporate competitiveness education is a fundamental undertaking that creates the and contributing to society. By adding new values at times foundation of management. and achieving further growth, we actively promote the Under this principle, the Mitsubishi Electric Group human resource development of all our employees. Human Resources Development System Supports the Career of Employees Mitsubishi Electric's training system for employees in opportunities at overseas sites and universities in Japan Japan consists of passing down everyday business knowand abroad are provided. Emphasis is also placed on how and acumen through on-the-job training. Knowledge a managerial training program that focuses on training and skills that are difficult to acquire through on-theindividuals for the core management positions that drive job training as well as career development are provided our businesses, and on developing core personnel and through off-the-job training on a supplementary basis. leaders. Off-the-job training consists of conferring information on With regard to new graduate employees and midethics, legal compliance, and other matters. Exceptional career recruits, we provide company orientation and teachers from inside or outside the company provide training sessions to elicit their consciousness as workers expertise and skills training, or motivational education. and educate them on basic knowledge, management Tests and competitions to improve skill levels are principles, compliance, and other matters. conducted, and practical training or international study Self-development support program Stratified training program Mitsubishi Electric instituted a self-development support In fiscal 2012, Mitsubishi Electric introduced Valueprogram that supports employees' voluntary skills up Training, a stratified training program intended for development based on a human resource development employees at certain junctions in their career (at ages 25, system that allows employees to take the initiative to 30 and 40), to provide an awareness and understanding actively develop their own skills. of the qualities and roles that are expected of them at The program provides support in the form of money those ages. and time for participants in educational programs The program aims to strengthen young employees' inside and outside the company and also pays bounties capacity for work, or the mentality, knowledge, and skills to employees that have acquired certain external they need to fulfill their duties, and medium-level and certifications. The program is intended to foster a corporate veteran employees' capacity for development, or their culture in which each and every employee independently skills to convey their working capacity to the younger and actively takes on the challenge of developing their generation (subordinates and juniors) and enhance their skills to reach higher goals as a professional. capacity for work. Through this program, we will make continued efforts to strengthen the working capacity of each employee and create a culture for development in the workplace as a whole. 107 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Promoting systematic and efficient skills development Mitsubishi Electric Group Skills Competition Mitsubishi Electric introduced to its operations in Japan a A skills competition is held annually as a measure to point system for employee training, to promote systematic strengthen the skills of the Mitsubishi Electric Group, with and efficient skill and capability development by tracking the aim of handing down skills and raising skills to even the progress of ability-building activities by its employees, higher levels, further creating a climate that respects particularly its young employees. Each training course is skills, and developing top-level engineers. worth a certain number of points. Employees receive the relevant points upon completing each course, and aim to achieve their individually recommended total number of points. Mitsubishi Electric Group Skills Competition Point System for Employee Training Passing on technological skills, knowledge, and know-how In order to pass on the skills possessed by highly experienced employees to younger technicians at Japan production sites accompanying the company's generational shift, we have developed a training program that allows the skills of accomplished employees to be learned in one-on-one settings. Technical skills are also passed on to young technicians through various measures such as installing technical help desks through which newer employees can consult with highly experienced employees through the company's intranet. Technical help desks 108 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Ensuring Occupational Safety & Health Basic Policy Mitsubishi Electric adheres to the basic policy of the best of their ability, comfortably and in good health. prioritizing the safety and health our employees above This basic policy underlies our company-wide Fiveall else. Based on the understanding that health and year Plan (current plan covering the five years from safety management form the foundation of business FY2018 to FY2022), which defines priority measures in management, we aim to establish a culture that places safety and health management, respectively, and by which top priority on safety and health in all social and business we implement specific activities toward achieving annual environments. Furthermore, we strive to provide mental targets. Our Group companies also engage in health and healthcare to all employees as we endeavor to create a safety management activities in line with relevant laws, workplace environment that allows everyone to work to regulations and company-specific issues. Promotional Framework The Mitsubishi Electric Group actively promotes safety and employees through meetings with labor unions and the health activities across the entire Group under the strong Safety and Health Committee, and labor-management leadership of the top management, such as by regularly efforts are made to promote both top-down and bottomholding the Mitsubishi Electric Group Health Convention up activities that aim to raise the level of safety and with the attendance of management executives from health. Mitsubishi Electric and Group companies in Japan. In the event of an industrial accident, safety measures Ongoing efforts are made to strengthen the safety and are immediately taken by the department where the health management framework, as Mitsubishi Electric and accident occurred. At the same time, efforts are made to Group companies cooperate in exchanging information, prevent similar accidents by delegating a third party to engage in education activities, and implement various conduct safety inspections, and laterally disseminating safety measures. Active communication is also held with case examples of disasters and countermeasures. Frequency of Labor Accidents Occupational Safety and Health Management (Number of Accidents Requiring System Leave Per Million Hours) (cases/million hours) In 2009, Mitsubishi Electric introduced a program for 1.2 1.15 internal accreditation of the Occupational Safety and 1.07 1.05 1.06 1.06 1.00 1.02 Health Management System (OSHMS*). Under the 0.96 0.98 0.94 program, each office creates a PDCA cycle for safety 1.0 and health activities based on the Mitsubishi Electric Group's requirements for safety and health management, 0.8 such as in regard to the development of a management framework in each office governed by a safety and health 0.6 supervisor and the implementation of risk assessments 0.45 0.44 0.49 0.54 0.51 0.44 0.45 and other relevant activities. 0.39 0.41 0.41 The goal is to have all Mitsubishi Electric offices 0.4 acquire accreditation, pass a surveillance inspection 0.19 0.17 after two years, and a renewal inspection every four 0.2 0.12 0.08 0.10 years, which will raise the occupational safety and health 0.06 0.05 0.04 0.06 0.06 management level of the company as a whole. As a result of this initiative, we have achieved one of the lowest 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 frequency rates and severity rates of industrial accidents (FY) (number of people killed or injured in a fatal accident or Mitsubishi Electric (Non-consolidated) an accident that requires time off from work per 1 million Manufacturing industries hours of work, and number of working days lost per 1,000 Electric machinery and product manufacturing industries hours) in the industry. Frequency of Labor Accidents ※OSHMS (Occupational Safety and Health Management System) (Number of accidents requiring a leave, per million hours) 109 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Thorough Safety and Health Education The Mitsubishi Electric Group implements safety and health education that matches its business characteristics and social environment, including stratified programs and occupation-specific programs, in addition to education programs prescribed by law. As a common feature of the Group, Mitsubishi Electric and Group companies in Japan also provide safety and health education based on an internal e-learning system, which has been instrumental in promoting greater understanding of the principles and concept of safety and health to more than 100,000 employees, managers, and supervisors every year. Furthermore, efforts are also made to strengthen employee safety education through risk simulation, such as by installing a safety room. E-learning of Safety and Health Education Danger simulation room at Mitsubishi Electric's Himeji Works To increase employee sensitivity to danger, a danger simulation room was created in 2011, where education is provided to all onsite employees and employees of affiliated companies (approx. 6,000) every year. Its facilities are being upgraded in sequence, such as by adding a slipping and falling simulation machine, a machine that simulates gear accidents, and a facility for engaging in finger-pointing safety confirmation. Danger simulation room Health Management Initiatives toward a Healthy Company Since 2002, Mitsubishi Electric and its Group companies strengthening individual approaches based on health in Japan have carried out the Mitsubishi Electric Group data, introducing an award system for healthy offices, Health Plan 21 (MHP21) intended for their 100,000promoting cooperation between Mitsubishi Electric and some employees and their families, as a three-party Group companies, and otherwise revitalizing Group cooperation project (Collaborative Health) with the labor activities as a whole. union and health insurance union. MHP21 promotes a The MHP21 activities, which we have been carrying review of lifestyle habits from an early stage, as a means out for over ten years, have been recognized by the for preventing lifestyle-related diseases and thereby First Smart Life Project Award sponsored by the Ministry improving Quality of Life (QOL), and for realizing a healthof Health, Labour and Welfare, and we have received oriented company. Under the slogan, Change Your the Minister's Award for Excellence in the corporation Lifestyle Habits, Extend Your Healthy Years, MHP21 category. Mitsubishi Electric was also recognized under involves setting company-wide improvement goals in the Large Enterprise Category (White 500) of the Certified five health categories—maintaining proper body weight, Health and Productivity Management Organization creating an active lifestyle, stopping smoking, maintaining Recognition Program that was launched in fiscal 2018 by proper dental care, and sleeping properly—and evaluating the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. the degree of achievement of these goals every year. Group companies overseas are likewise taking After implementing Stage I of the plan over ten initiatives to maintain and promote health among their years and Stage II over five years, a new five-year plan employees, in consideration of the health situation in their was launched in 2017 as Stage III, with a focus on respective countries. 110 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Targets and results of MHP21 activities Before Stage I Stage II Stage III Stage III MHP21 activities commencement of Final year Final year First year Target Priority items activities (FY2002) (FY2012) (FY2017) (FY2018) (FY2018−2022) People maintaining proper 73.0％ 71.7％ 70.4％ 70.2％ 73% or more body weight※1 People who have an active 11.7% 16.2% 24.1% 24.7% 39% or more lifestyle※2 Smokers 40.0% 27.6% 24.7% 24.0% 20% or less People who brush their teeth 13.3% 20.5% 22.5% 24.2% 25% or more three times a day or more People who get enough sleep － － － 67.0% 85% or more and are well rested*3 ※1 BMI of 18.5 or more and less than 25.0 ※2 30 minutes or more of exercise twice a week or more, or an average of 10,000 steps (1 hour of walking) or more per day ※3 Included from Stage III Promoting Mental Health Care Mental health care is a top priority for health management in the Mitsubishi Electric Group. By establishing a are repeatedly implemented through lectures and internal counseling program that includes an industrial physician e-learning programs, to provide knowledge of mental and/or counselor and other such initiatives, active efforts health and strengthen responses to mental health among are made to help employees cope with everyday worries managers and employees. related to work and family and other emotional issues. ※EAP (Employee Assistance Program): a program that provides support to employees Also through a legislated stress check system, and through telephone and e-mail counseling provided by an employee assistance program (EAP*), importance is placed on the primary prevention of employee mental health disorders. Employees who return to work after taking a mental health leave are fully supported by the receiving department, personnel department, and industrial physician based on the Mitsubishi Electric Guidelines for Return-to-Work Support, and every effort is made to facilitate their return to their workplace and prevent any relapse. Furthermore, by appointing dedicated counselors in the Mitsubishi Electric head office, focused care is also provided to employees posted outside of Japan, where working and living environments largely differ from Japan. In terms of education, line-care and self-care training Mental Health Care Education Creating Comfortable Workplace Environments The Mitsubishi Electric Group recognizes that people By establishing voluntary standards (workplace spend a large part of their lives at their place of environment standards) for air, lighting, noise, and employment, so we make people-friendly enhancements facilities, and by working to achieve each standard, to the workplace environment and promote the creation Mitsubishi Electric pursues ongoing efforts to create of pleasant spaces that also give consideration to elderly comfortable workplace environments. people and people with disabilities. 111 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Supply Chain Management Basic Policy The Mitsubishi Electric Group ensures fair and impartial Group, risks are also mitigated along the supply chain. selection and evaluation of business partners in Japan The Group’ s criteria for evaluating business partners and overseas by providing an explanation of the Group's include not only quality, cost, delivery schedules and Purchasing Policy and CSR Procurement Policy, and services, but also initiatives in response to environmental requesting business partners' understanding of these regulations and CSR initiatives. As a basic policy, the policies. By ensuring proper evaluation of suppliers based Group preferentially procures materials from suppliers on selection and evaluation criteria established by the who rank high in a comprehensive evaluation. Our Purchasing Philosophy Mitsubishi Electric purchases a wide variety of materials and components from both Japanese and overseas markets. We recognize our corporate responsibility and are eager to provide business opportunities for the communities in which we operate. 1. Easy Access and Equal Opportunity To guarantee our customers the highest-quality products, we are constantly searching for new suppliers. We encourage business partners from all over the world, regardless of size, to contact us about submitting a quotation. The decision to embark on a new business relationship is made after careful consideration of three major factors: product price, product quality, and delivery performance. To ensure continued high quality and efficiency, we periodically review our relationships with our partners. 2. Mutual Prosperity We believe in long-term relationships built upon understanding and trust. This will allow the participation of our business partners during the product development stage, paving the way for mutual prosperity. 3. Ecological Soundness We are interested in the materials and manufacturing processes used by our suppliers. Because we value the environment, we buy only ecologically sound products. Our mission is to satisfy the needs of people around the globe. To meet their growing expectations, we must widen and strengthen our affiliations with companies all over the world. We are seeking cooperation, not just business, and are looking for potential partners who are willing to join us in our drive toward global prosperity. CSR Procurement Policy We carry out material procurement activities in line with our CSR Procurement Policy, which was established in 2007. We have also established the CSR Procurement Guidelines in 2018 to widely disseminate Mitsubishi Electric’ s CSR policies and matters for compliance by our business partners. Going forward, approaches will be made to all business partners to verify their agreement to promote procurement activities in line with the guidelines. 1. Compliance with domestic and foreign laws/regulations and social standards （1） Ensuring compliance with laws and regulation （2） Respecting human rights and prohibiting discrimination, child labor, and forced labor （3） Creating proper work environments and giving consideration to safety and health 2. Assurance of quality and safety of products and services 3. Environmental considerations （1） Procuring materials with less negative impact on the environment （2） Ensuring strict management of harmful chemical substances based on an environmental management system 4. Promotion of fair trade based on corporate ethics （1） Practicing honest trade on fair and equal footing, based on laws/regulations and agreements （2） Ensuring strict management and safeguarding of information by establishing an information security system （3） Thorough elimination of fraudulence, bribery, and other such conduct that violates corporate ethics 112 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Framework for Promotion of Supply Chain Management The Mitsubishi Electric Group launched the WΣ21II (Worldwide Strategic Integration for Global Markets in the ※WΣ21Ⅱ：An initiative by the Corporate Purchasing 21st Century Advance to the Next Stage)* activity in April Division toward achieving sales of 5 trillion yen and an operating profit of 8% 2017, and is promoting optimal procurement activities or more by 2020 suited to each region through the Materials Planning 1. Duration: Three years from 4/1/2017 to 3/31/2020 Office. The Materials Planning Office was established in 2. Priority activities collaboration among regional corporate offices in China, （1） Progress of cost-planning activities toward Asia, Europe and Americas to implement purchasing the achievement of target costs strategies through conferences of procurement officers （2） Strengthening of the competitiveness of and other such meetings. Accompanying this initiative, product models in cooperation with suppliers the supply chain has also expanded to various countries （3） Promotion of optimal regional procurement where the Group operates, so initiatives are also pursued throughout the world to mitigate any perceived risks regarding a range of （4） Strengthening of supply chain management issues related to labor laws and regulations, and to （5） Construction of a platform for supporting The Supply Chain of the Mitsubishi Electric Group environmental problems. relevant activities and measures Expansion of CSR initiatives through the supply chain Partner companies Partner Partner companies companies Partner companies Partner The Mitsubishi Partner companies Electric Group companies Partner Partner Partner companies companies companies Partner companies Partner companies Partner Partner companies companies The Supply Chain of the Mitsubishi Electric Group Local procurement rate in the major regions (Mitsubishi Electric Group) Other Local procurement Other Local procurement Other Local procurement Other Local procurement rate rate rate rate 34% 66% 26% 74% 54% 46% 57% 43% Local production Local production ratio ratio Local Local 22% 25% production production China ratio Asia ratio Europe USA 66% 54% Foreign 74% 48% 46% 43% Foreign origin origin 24% 18% 12% 26% Foreign origin Foreign origin *1 Local procurement rate: Materials, parts, etc. (regardless of country of origin) that are procured by overseas production sites at their own discretion *2 Local production ratio: Among all locally procured items, the procurement ratio of items produced in the country of the overseas site *3 Foreign origin: Among all locally procured items, the procurement ratio of items produced in countries other than the country of the overseas site 113 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Mitsubishi Electric Group Initiatives for Responsible Minerals Procurement The Mitsubishi Electric Group views such issues as we do not encourage or become complicit in such environmental destruction and the abuse of human rights issues in any way, and to promote responsible mineral by armed groups in the Democratic Republic of Congo procurement. and its neighboring countries as issues of the utmost ※Conflict minerals refers to gold, tin, tantalum, tungsten, and concern. As transactions of conflict minerals* are said to other minerals that have been determined by the U.S. State Department to be a source of support for armed groups when fund these armed groups, we are implementing measures mined in the countries referred to above. to ensure the transparency of our supply chain so that Survey of restrictions on conflict minerals Mitsubishi Electric takes part in the Responsible Minerals were carried out on approximately 1,000 suppliers, and Trade Working Group of the Japan Electronics and responses were obtained from 95% of these suppliers. Information Technology Industries Association (JEITA), and In addition to requesting suppliers to collect accurate addresses restrictions on conflict minerals in cooperation information on smelting companies, various other with other industry organizations. Surveys are conducted measures will continue to be implemented in order to using the survey form (EICC-GeSI* conflict mineral report comply with the restrictions on conflict minerals. template) that is commonly used in the automobile, ※EICC：Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition electric, and electronic industries. In fiscal 2018, surveys GeSI：Global e-Sustainability Initiative Identification of smelting companies in FY2018 (No. of smelting companies identified: 12,000 companies) Tin Tantalum Tungsten Gold 57％ 63％ 61％ 61％ Of the smelting companies that have been identified, it was found that roughly 75% handle conflict-free minerals. Strengthening CSR Initiatives along the Supply Chain Initiatives to address environmental issues Since 2006, the Mitsubishi Electric Group has been chemical substances contained in components and evaluating the progress of suppliers’initiatives to address materials they deliver to our company. Under the System, environmental issues under the Green Accreditation suppliers who meet our standards are certified. System. Based on the Green Procurement Standards We ultimately minimize environmental risks by Guide and using an original survey form, the System properly evaluating the progress of our suppliers’ involves a survey of each supplier’ s progress in acquiring environmental initiatives under this System, and by environmental management system certification, the providing advice on any corrections that should be made supplier’ s status of compliance with laws and regulations by suppliers who do not meet the certification standards. related to the environment, and its management of Initiatives to address social issues From 2009, the status of CSR initiatives has been included issued by JEITA’ s Materials Committee. To verify our in the survey items, and a survey is also made of issues suppliers’commitment to promoting the content of the such as human rights, labor practices, safety and health, guidelines, a consent form is attached to the last page of legal compliance, and product safety. Furthermore, the guidelines. the CSR Procurement Guidelines were established in ※The Mitsubishi Electric Group’ s Green Procurement Standards 2018 based on international standards; the Guidelines Guide and CSR Procurement Guidelines are provided below. These documents are reviewed as appropriate in response to contain the RBA Code of Conduct (Version 6.0) that was changes in laws, regulations and social norms. formulated and announced by the Responsible Business Procurement Activities Alliance, and the Supply Chain CSR Promotion Guidebook 114 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Requests to Suppliers Suppliers to the Mitsubishi Electric Group are requested comply with the CSR Procurement Guidelines and a to gain an understanding of the Group’ s Purchasing completed survey form upon reading and understanding Policy and CSR Procurement Policy, and to disseminate the guidelines. these policies to their supply chain. They are especially For details, please refer to each of our guidelines requested to thoroughly comply with the points below, (Green Procurement Standards Guide, CSR Procurement which the Group has identified as priority issues to be Guidelines). addressed through the entire supply chain. Additionally, Procurement Activities new suppliers are asked to submit their agreement to 1. Compliance with laws, regulations and social norms Please comply with laws and regulations in countries and regions where you engage in business, as well as with international agreements, transaction ethics, and social norms. (Elimination of corrupt practices such as bribery, embezzlement, and illegal political contributions; compliance with relevant laws and regulations, including the Antimonopoly Act, Subcontractor Act, and Foreign Exchange Act; prohibition of the illegal acquisition and utilization of intellectual property; proper information disclosure; execution of faithful transactions based on contracts, etc.) 2. Respect for human rights Please respect basic human rights in countries and regions where you engage in business. (Prohibition of inhumane treatment like forced labor, child labor, abusive treatment, human trafficking, and harassment; prohibition of all forms of discrimination; proper payment of wages; proper management of working hours; respect for the right to organize, etc.) 3. Consideration for health and safety Please give due consideration to health and safety in all countries and regions where you engage in business. (Safety measures for machines and devices; evaluation and measures against the occurrence of accident and health hazard risks; preventive measures against large-scale disasters and accidents, etc.) 4. Environmental considerations Please take measures to provide products and services that place minimum burden on the environment. (Acquisition, maintenance and management of environmental management system certification; compliance with environmental laws and regulations; proper management of chemical substances in products, etc.) 5. Product and service quality and safety Please take measures to ensure the quality and safety of products and services you provide. (Design, evaluation and testing for ensuring safety; compliance with laws and regulations related to safety; construction, maintenance and management of quality management systems, etc.) 6. Security measures for information systems Please take appropriate measures to protect against computer network threats. (Construction of prevention measures against computer viruses and cyberattacks; prevention of information leakage through proper management of confidential information and personal information, etc.) Evaluation Status of Suppliers' Initiatives to Address CSR Issues Basic policy of supplier surveys The Mitsubishi Electric Group verifies the progress of years, as a rule)). In response to our suppliers’replies to suppliers’initiatives to respond to the requirements these surveys, we provide feedback about the results of outlined in the Green Procurement Standards Guide the evaluation. We also communicate with suppliers who and CSR Procurement Guidelines by requesting principal have scored low in any one of the survey items, to request suppliers who fall within the top 80% in terms of purchase the necessary corrections. This is done through individual amounts to complete a survey form (prior to commencing meetings and other such means. The survey form has transactions in the case of new transactions and at certain been revised in 2018 following the formulation of the CSR intervals in the case of ongoing transactions (every three Procurement Guidelines. 115 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Record of evaluation activities From 2006, the evaluation covered domestic suppliers going forward, survey will be implemented in sequence only. However, the range was expanded in fiscal 2018 to in other regions as well. Particular efforts will be made to include overseas suppliers also. The fiscal 2018 survey extend the survey to suppliers in Europe and the U.S. in placed priority on the China and Thailand region, but fiscal 2019. Responses to the Green Accreditation/CSR Procurement survey form (Mitsubishi Electric Group) (Only the Green Accreditation survey was conducted from 2006 to 2008. CSR items were added to the survey in 2009.) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 1,178 2,656 1,390 534 1,932 954 929 1,395 771 675 1,704 1,062 companies 【6-4-3】FY2018 rate of green companies companies companies accreditation companies companies companies companies companies companies companies companies (incl. approx. 400 certiﬁcation among suppliers (Mitsubishi Electric Group) overseas companies) rate of FY2018* Total greenofaccreditation number certification suppliers: Approx. among suppliers 25,000 companies (FY2018) * Survey rate for new suppliers: 100% (FY2018) * The above figures include cases where the survey form was re-submitted following guidance for improvement. * In FY2018, there were no suppliers whose business FY2018 relationship withofthe results Mitsubishi supplier Electric Group was canceled because of their surveys evaluation results. rate of green accreditation on green accreditation/CSR procurement certification among suppliers Not certified 55.3% A (excellent) 1% Human rights & 3.7% labor practices 40.9% B (good) 0.1% C (fair) 0% 57.5% D (improvement required) 2.9% N.A. Safety & health 39.2% Certified 0.3% 99% 0% 47.2% Fair trade & 13.3% 39.2% FY2018 rate of green accreditation ethics 0.3% certiﬁcation among suppliers 0% (Mitsubishi Electric Group) 63.0% 0% Quality & safety 31.0% 0.3% 5.8% 59.1% 0% Information 40.7% 0.1% 0% 57.5% Social 0% contribution 42.3% 0.1% 0% 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70（％） Ratio of suppliers FY2018 results of supplier surveys on green accreditation/CSR procurement Number of suppliers given guidance in fiscal 2018 and the content of the guidance No. of companies Item given guidance Content of guidance Further strengthening of initiatives for the restriction of chemical substances Environment 11 in products (particularly in response to the revised RoHS2 Directive) Human rights, labor Improvement of the management of working hours, correction of dangerous 15 practices, safety and health areas, strengthening of safety measures for machines and devices 116 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Providing safety guidance during an onsite inspection of a Providing safety guidance during an onsite inspection of a supplier's company (overseas) supplier's company (in Japan) Communication with Suppliers At each office, the Mitsubishi Electric Group holds The Mitsubishi Electric Group believes it is important seminars that disseminate a full understanding of the to provide an understanding of the Group's policies to Group's Purchasing Policy and CSR Procurement Policy overseas suppliers as well, and thus holds CSR seminars among suppliers. Through these initiatives, suppliers are and other relevant seminars in overseas sites. asked to concur with the policies and strengthen CSR initiatives at their companies as well. In fiscal 2018, as before, we held a variety of seminars for our suppliers, including BCP* seminars, seminars to disseminate an understanding of changes in chemical substance restrictions such as the EU RoHS Directive, and compliance programs (export control, information security and management, the Subcontract Act, etc.). Direct exchanges of views are also held with our suppliers in regard to matters outlined in the supplier survey form. In these ways, we will maintain close communication with our suppliers and continue to organize seminars that promote further CSR initiatives. *B CP (business continuity planning): Being prepared for any disaster or other emergency situation by planning how to minimize damage to the company and how to continue or restore business activities. Exchange of views with suppliers Fiscal 2018 seminars No. of site No. of participating companies (In Japan) Approx. 1,800 companies CSR seminar 24 (Overseas) 243 companies BCP seminar (anti-earthquake and disaster mitigation measures) 13 Approx. 400 companies Information session on chemical substance restrictions 19 Approx. 5,000 companies * The number of companies is the cumulative total number of companies. Seminars for suppliers held at each office Seminars for suppliers held at each office Seminars for suppliers held at each office (Communication Systems Center) (Power Distribution Systems Center) (Thailand region) 117 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Strengthening Partnerships with Key Suppliers Recognizing the importance of building a favorable results since fiscal 2004, giving us reason to actively business relationship with our business partners from continue the initiative. a medium-term perspective, we preferentially procure We also recognize the need to promote initiatives to materials and components from suppliers who have strengthen our competitiveness alongside our suppliers acquired high overall scores in a supplier selection not only in Japan but also overseas, including in Europe, evaluation. Suppliers who play a particularly important the Americas, China, and other Asian countries, in terms role in promoting our business are regarded as key of cost, quality, and delivery time. To strengthen these suppliers. With key suppliers of parts that influence initiatives, we actively organize presentations on VE product performance and parts that require advanced case examples and VE lectures overseas (UK, US, China, technological capabilities, we build a partnership and Thailand, Indonesia, Mexico, India, Colombia, etc.). We together engage in activities for creating cost (cost also promote human resource development, such as by co-creation activities), such as by pursuing their joint conferring an instructor's certificate on those who have development from the initial development stages, taken a writing test and VE program and demonstrate a adopting advanced products, and promoting value certain level of knowledge. engineering (VE)*. Based on the awareness that it is essential to also Through these initiatives, we reduce the input of build partnerships with outstanding suppliers overseas, materials and minimize environmental burden by making in fiscal 2017 we established a system for awarding products more compact and lightweight, and build a suppliers who have made particular achievements in win-win relationship that leads to increased sales and terms of price, quality, and delivery time, as part of our enhanced technology capabilities for both Mitsubishi ongoing initiatives for creating good relationships with our Electric and our partners. suppliers. The cost co-creation activities that Mitsubishi Electric * VE (value engineering): a method in which the minimum cost has thus pursued with our key suppliers from the initial that is required to achieve a product's essential functions is pursued from the initial parts stage. stages of product development have produced significant VE lecture in the Southeast Asia region (Indonesia) VE lecture in the Southeast Asia region (India) Presenting an award to a supplier Meeting with a supplier in the China region in the Southeast Asia region (Malaysia) 118 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Providing Learning Programs on Procurement Laws and Regulations The Mitsubishi Electric Group offers various learning teach employees not to become involved in bribery, programs on laws and regulations related to the embezzlement, or any other form of action that goes operations of employees in charge of procurement against the principle of fair trade. Compliance education activities. In Japan for example, our course on materials related to procurement is also held for local employees in procurement laws provides guidance and education for charge of procurement operations overseas. thorough compliance with laws and regulations that To further strengthen CSR initiatives (particularly particularly pertain to procurement activities, such as the along our supply chain), we are making greater efforts Anti-Monopoly Act, the Act against Delay in Payment of to share information on activities implemented by each Subcontract Proceeds, Etc. to Subcontractors, and the office as well as instructional information, such as by Construction Contractors Law. Guidance and education holding Review Meetings for CSR Promotion in the Supply are also provided overseas. Based on the Code of Chain and providing CSR education to employees in Conduct and check sheets, learning programs strictly procurement departments. Compliance education related to procurement in the Thailand region Review Meeting for CSR Promotion in the Supply Chain 119 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Philanthropic Activities Our Philosophy on Philanthropic Activities As a corporate citizen committed to meeting societal needs and expectations, the Mitsubishi Electric Group will make full use of the resources it has at hand to contribute to creating an affluent society in partnership with its employees. Our Policies on Philanthropic Activities ・We shall carry out community-based activities in response to societal needs in the fields of social welfare and global environmental conservation. ・We shall contribute to developing the next generation through activities that support the promotion of science and technology, culture and arts, and sports. Philanthropy Promotion Framework Japan Overseas Philanthropic Foundations SOCIO-ROOTS Fund America Thailand CSR Committee Manufacturing Aﬃliates Aﬃliates Works In 1990, company-wide approach was initiated to natural environment, and the Mitsubishi Electric Science promote Mitsubishi Electric's philanthropic activities. In Workshops was launched in 2009 to convey the joy of 1991, the foundations in the United States and Thailand science to children. were established, and in 1992 the matching gift program In addition, Mitsubishi Electric Group companies Mitsubishi Electric SOCIO-ROOTS Fund was formed to in Japan and overseas are committed to carrying out carry out at all business sites across Japan. Since then, community-based activities and contributing to developing the Satoyama Woodland Preservation Project was the next generation in line with the mission and policy on started in 2007 aiming at restoring and preserving the philanthropic activities. Engaging in Philanthropic Activities in Four Key Areas 120 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Social Welfare Mitsubishi Electric SOCIO-ROOTS Fund — Overview — The Mitsubishi Electric SOCIO-ROOTS Fund was established The Fund will continue to steadily support grass roots in 1992 as a gift program in which the Company matches activities, as its name indicates, so that it can help to create the amount of any donation made by its employees, smiles with big support that consists of consideration thus doubling the goodwill of the gift. Many employees shown to people in need by each employee. participate in the Fund each year. As of March 2018, the Fund has provided more than 12.7 billion yen to some 2,000 various social welfare facilities and programs. — Donations — Branches have been set up at each of our business sites Each Mitsubishi Electric business site makes inventive across Japan so that employees can provide monetary efforts to facilitate donation by its employees, carrying out gifts that benefit social welfare facilities in their community. fund-raising activities suitable to the site. Some examples Community chest of in each prefecture have cooperated of these activities include charity bazaars, charity auctions, since the Fund's inception to provide referrals to donation and donations through vending machines. recipients and information about community needs. Donation of talking TVs Assistance that Delivers Our Commitment —Products that exhibit our strengths— —Conveying the Good Intentions of Employees with a Smile— We have donated our REAL LCD TVs (talking TVs)—which can We provide assistance to not only facilities supporting people read digital programming and the setup menu aloud—to schools with disabilities, but also nurseries, maternal and child living for the blind in order to assist people with visual impairments. support facilities, foster homes, and assisted living facilities. Through presentation ceremonies, we strive to convey the feelings of our employees and provide support that people can put a face to. Messages of thanks from these facilities are a big motivator for our activities and always put a smile on employees' faces. Donations for the Great East Japan Earthquake —Support for the healthy growth of children — The Fund is making ongoing efforts to support children affected by the earthquake. As of March 31, 2018, it has donated a sum of 148.5 million yen since the program began in fiscal 2012. 121 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Global Environmental Conservation Employees participation program Woodland Preservation Project — Overview — We have conducted the Satoyama Woodland Preservation to the communities where our business sites are located. Project since 2007. This project seeks to restore familiar Under the key words simple and sustained, these nature, such as parks, forests, and rivers located in the activities are taking place throughout Japan in phases. vicinity of our business sites. Employees put in physical effort to participate in The aim of this project is to repay nature for its various building a safe and secure community, which also helps to bounties and for cultivating diverse life, and to contribute broaden communication with the local community. Activities on remote islands suffering from depopulation Recovering abandoned farmland Coastal sea preservation activity Woodland preservation project 122 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Science and Technology Mitsubishi Electric Science Workshops Since 2009, through the Mitsubishi Electric Science Workshops children can experience basic scientific principles related to electricity, heat, sound, light, wind, communications and programming. The workshops convey the joy of science through experiments and other activities, show the relationships between the basic scientific principles taught and real products, and help the children realize how the products are useful in society. It is also a good opportunity for employees, who serve as lecturers, to look back on their work. In fiscal 2018, 23 domestic business sites participated, and a sum of about 70 workshops was held. In January 2018, Mitsubishi Electric Group received the Encouragement Award (Large enterprise category) at Received the 8th Career Education Awards Encouragement Award the Eighth Career Education Awards held by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. Experiment of cutting ice with body temperature with heat pipe technology Game to pick up bells by turning a hand-held electric generator with an electromagnet made by coiling wire Culture and Arts, Sports Activities by Mitsubishi Electric's Sports Teams Basketball American football Nagoya Diamond Dolphins and Mitsubishi Electric Koalas, The American football team is continuing volunteer actively engage in activities to promote basketball, activities to express their gratitude to society. such as regularly sending their coaches and players to The team has utilized the players' power to carry out basketball workshops held throughout Japan for primary volunteering for reconstruction assistance for the Great and junior high school students. East Japan Earthquake and cleaning activities in a park near practice areas. Basketball workshop Cleaning of fallen leaves and sludge collected in a pond in the park 123 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Tennis Badminton Professional players and employees who belong to Our badminton team in the Japan League, called Diamond Mitsubishi Electric's Tennis Japan League team Mitsubishi Wings, engages in activities to promote badminton Electric Falcons sponsor tennis workshops throughout and contribute to the local community mainly in Hyogo Japan. Also, through wheelchair tennis and blind tennis, prefecture, where the team is based. It helps train athletes people with/without disabilities interact learning the and shares the excitement of badminton by holding importance of deepening mutual understanding. training sessions and allowing high school students to participate in practices. Workshops in Tohoku Badminton workshop Culture and Arts Mouth and Foot Painting Artists of the World Exhibition Every year, Mitsubishi Electric Building Techno-Service throughout Japan starting in 1994. Promotional activities Co., Ltd. sponsors Mouth and Foot Painting Artists of the for the event are being continued by volunteers including World Exhibition throughout Japan. As the title indicates, the company employees and their families. the exhibition features paintings by artists around the world who are deprived of the use of their hands, and thus paint using their mouths or feet to hold a paintbrush. The company encountered paintings drawn by artists belonging to the Association of Mouth and Foot Painting Artists of the World for the first time in 1991, when it purchased paintings to put on the wall of a lodging attached to a training facility in Kodaira city, Tokyo. Employees who saw these paintings were so impressed with the pieces that were laboriously painted by such artists, that they hosted an informal painting exhibition in the training facility in 1992. The response to this exhibition was so overwhelmingly positive that it came to be held Mouth and Foot Painting Artists of the World Exhibition Mitsubishi Electric Foundations Mitsubishi Electric America Foundation Summary Established in 1991, the Mitsubishi Electric America U.S. is about 21%, compared to about 70% of people Foundation (MEAF) has invested $18 million in innovative without disabilities. Therefore in 2012, MEAF launched its projects that help young people with disabilities national M>PWR possible initiative focused on supporting maximize their potential and participation in society. innovative approaches to empower youth with disabilities The employment rate of people with disabilities in the so they can lead productive lives and achieve possible. 124 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Example of activities Through the 10-year M>PWR possible initiative, MEAF is aiming to“empower”youth and young veterans with disabilities to increase their employment* rate by 2020. MEAF aims to increase independence, self-confidence and employment possibilities by empowering young people with disabilities through funding for regional and nationwide organizations, and building networks between these organizations. In 2018, MEAF received the 2018 CATALYST AWARD from the American Association of People with Disabilities (AAPD) in recognition of its long-term efforts.* * MEAF supports the AAPD Summer Internship program, which places university students with disabilities in Congressional offices, federal agencies, and non-profit organizations in Received the 2018 CATALYST AWARD from the American Washington, DC, since the program’ s inception in 2002. Association of People with Disabilities Collaboration with U.S. employees Employee volunteers from Mitsubishi Electric Group companies in the U.S. engage in their communities as the foundation's ACCESSTEAM*. In fiscal 2018, the ACCESSTEAM volunteered more than 7,800 hours to local community organizations. *R efers to the TEAM of Mitsubishi Electric volunteers in the U.S. that are empowering youth with disabilities, and alludes to supporting ACCESS to employment in the field of S.T.E.A.M. (Science, Technology, Engineering, Art/Design, and Mathematics). Local employees participating in a workshop organized by the MEAF Mitsubishi Electric Thai Foundation Summary Collaboration with Thai employees Established in 1991, the Mitsubishi Electric Thai In collaboration with local Mitsubishi Electric Group Foundation (METF)provides scholarships to university companies in Thailand, METF contributes to local students, grants elementary school lunch, and conducts communities through tree-planting activities, Science volunteer activities jointly with the Mitsubishi Electric classroom for elementary school students , Community Group companies in Thailand. contribution activities through 5S (Seiri (Sort), Seiton (Set Furthermore, METF focuses on new volunteer activities in Order), Seisou (Shine), Seiketsu (Standardize), Shitsuke in collaboration with the Thai Philanthropic Committee, (Sustain)) activities in temples, and making donations which was newly established in 2015 to implement more to temples that care for AIDS patients. More than 500 effective activities throughout the Group. employees and local people participated at maximum at a time, and participants were able to share joy with many Example of activities people through these activities. In 2017, the Foundation began supporting the Prateep Dek Thai Project to build Since 1993, scholarships have been awarded to students a Child Development Center in underprivileged areas. at four engineering universities. Aimed at students who have excellent grades, but have difficulties in studying due to economic circumstances, the scholarships help to develop Thai science and technology. Also, since 1999 the Foundation has granted a sum of money for school lunch to 30 elementary schools recommended by the Thai Ministry of Education. 5S activities in temples Scholarship presentation ceremony 125 Contents About President's CSR at Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Oversea Activities Educational program on Support for the Special Olympics (Italy) renewable energy (UK) Sponsoring a music festival El Primer Palau (Spain) Joint Mangrove planting activity involving three local group companies (Indonesia) Educational support for underprivileged children (Colombia) 126 Inquiry: Mitsubishi Electric Corporation, CSR Promotion Center Corporate Administration Division, Tokyo Building, 2-7-3, Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8310, Japan Phone: 81-3-3218-2075
