IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Contents Message from IBA Group Chairman Section 1. Managing the Company 1.1. Business Overview 1.2. Mission, Vision, and Values 1.3. Organizational Structure 1.4. Business Ethics and Practice Section 2. Developing a Sustainable Business 2.1. Sustainability Management 2.2. Contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals 2.3. Stakeholder Engagement Section 3. Implementing Innovations 3.1. Quality Management 3.2. Mobile Technologies 3.3. Cloud Technologies 3.4. Robotic Process Automation (RPA) Section 4. Making Responsible Decisions 4.1. Environmental Protection 4.2. Employee Support 4.3. IT Education 4.4. Charity and Sponsorship Appendices Appendix 1. About This Report Appendix 2. Awards and Recognition Appendix 3. Terms and Abbreviations Appendix 4. GRI Standards Content Index Appendix 5. Feedback Form Appendix 6. Contact Information IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Company’s History 2018 IBA Group joins the UN Global Compact 2017 IBA Group opens IBA Bulgaria in 2001 2002 Burgas IBA opens IBA Gomel IBA establishes its training center that eventually turns into IBA Institute 2016 IBA Group unveils its campus in Belarus’ High 2000 2005 Tech Park IBA opens IBA IT GmbH in IBA relocates its headquarters to Prague, Germany Czech Republic, transforming IBA to IBA Group. IBA CZ expands to Brno 2015 IBAA Group opens IBA Slovakia in Bratislava 1999 2006 IBA opens IBA CZ, a center of excellence in Prague, Czech Republic. IBA Group opens IBA Rus in Moscow. 2013 IBA Group included in the Leaders IBA Group opens IBA South Africa in IBA receives Government Quality category of The Global Outsourcing 100 Johannesburg Award for the first time for the first time 1998 2011 2012 IBA Group wins at European IT & Software IBA Group opens IBA Ukraine in Kiev IBA opens IBA USA in the US Excellence Awards for the first time and IBA UK in London 1993 JV IBA founded in Minsk, Belarus IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group 2018 Factsheet 12 IBA Group IBA became a sixth-time winner of Belarusian Government 25+years in IBA Group joined the United Nations Global Compact, the IBA Group was listed among The Global Outsourcing 100 5 centers of has offices in Quality Award international world’s leading companies in the excellence in 12 countries IT business voluntary Leader judging 5 countries corporate social category for the responsibility sixth consecutive initiative year Since 2008, IBA Group has been selected for Software 500, a 40+projects for IBA Group won at European IT & Software 2,500+ IT and business professionals IBA Group received the second Global Sourcing Association (GSA) award in the ranking of the customers Excellence Awards category Corporate world’s largest in 40+ for the sixth time Social Responsibility software and countries (CSR) service providers IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Message from IBA Group Chairman IBA Group became a signatory of the United Nations Global In terms of responsible consumption and production, IBA Group Compact in 2018. Joining this important initiative, we acquires and installs the most efficient equipment and devices confirmed our commitment to making the UN Global Compact in its offices and data center, as well as embeds sustainable (UNGC) and its principles part of the company’s strategy, practices in operations. culture, and day-to-day operations. In this Report, we show how we work to achieve the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Finally, IBA Group promotes peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development at the national and international I believe that a business today should act in the interest of levels, and ensures public access to information through its sustainable development. IBA Group contributes to quality values, standards, and norms of behavior. education; decent work and economic growth; responsible production and consumption; peace, justice, and strong In 2018, IBA Group marked its 25th anniversary. In the past institutions; and other SDGs. years, we implemented thousands of projects for customers from more than 40 counties. The company continued to expand To ensure inclusive and equitable quality education, we at IBA its global presence, opening a new development center in Group invest in employee education, support universities in the Bulgaria. countries of operation, and conduct empowerment courses for people with disabilities. Our employees play an extremely important role in achieving our sustainable development goals. The company’s success is a To promote inclusive and sustainable economic growth, and full team effort. and productive employment and decent work, IBA Group implements technological innovations in custom projects, Likewise, we value our customers and strive to build proprietary solutions, and internal processes. The IBA’s selfpartnerships with them. IBA Group has a reputation for being a service banking solutions enhance the capacity of domestic reliable partner and we are proud to have long-term customers financial institutions and expand access to banking services. that have been with us for years and some of them even since the company’s inception. In addition, IBA Group provides a safe and comfortable working environment for employees. We support our employees We look forward to the future with confidence and aim at through fair salaries, and educational and social programs, as improving efficiency in all areas of our operations. well as through fostering creativity and innovation. The company maintains a special focus on attracting university Sergei Levteev graduates. Young professionals are able to connect, grow and IBA Group Chairman develop a career at an international IT company. We also take care of our former employees who retired after years of loyal service. IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Managing the Company Business Overview IBA Group is one of the largest IT service providers in Eastern Europe, performing onshore, nearshore, and offshore projects with more than 2,500 professionals. Headquartered in Prague, Czech Republic, IBA Group operates in 12 countries. The company’s development centers are in Belarus, the Czech Republic, Bulgaria, Kazakhstan, and Slovakia. The sales offices are in the US, Germany, Great Britain, Russia, Ukraine, South Africa, and Cyprus. IBA Group is a joint stock company. Its branches are joint stock or limited liability companies. For more than 25 years, IBA Group has been working in the IT industry. As the company is a partner of world IT leaders, it is able to introduce innovative technologies at local enterprises in the countries of presence. However, the company’s innovativeness depends on its partners because IBA Group’s services and solutions are based on technologies of world IT leaders. IBA Group serves customers in more than 40 countries, focusing primarily on the B2B segment. IBA Group improves its technological expertise, solves customers’ business problems in digital transformation, business process automation, analytics, Robotic Process Automation (RPA), and cloud and mobility technologies. IBA Group’s services and solutions are designed for: • IT companies • Manufacturing enterprises IBA Group has unique expertise, optimized business • Transport companies processes, and good reputation. IBA Group improves its • Financial institutions business processes, providing customers with high quality • Trade organizations • Utility enterprises services. • Mining industry • Public institutions • Educational institutions. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Business Overview | Mission, Vision, and Values | Organizational Structure | Business Ethics and Practice IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Managing the Company Services and Solutions IBA Group offers innovative, reliable, and secure IT services and solutions for digital business transformation. The company covers a full cycle of software development and provides migration of legacy systems to new platforms. Focus Areas • Enterprise applications • Complex multiplatform solutions • RPA, machine learning (ML), and artificial intelligence (AI) • Business analytics • Internet of Things (IoT). In addition, the IBA Group’s portfolio includes a wide range of software solutions for retail banking, an automated fare collection system for public transport, an HR management platform, and a cloud platform. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Business Overview | Mission, Vision, and Values | Organizational Structure | Business Ethics and Practice IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Managing the Company IBA Group in Global IT Industry In 2018, the global IT services market exceeded $ 1 trillion. Compared to 2017, the growth was at 4.3%. In Belarus, where IBA Group has its largest development centers, the IT industry is one of the most dynamically developing areas of the economy. The country is listed among the world leaders in the export of IT services per capita with $108. In the US, this figure is $58, in India $40, and in China $20. The IT industry generates the third largest number of jobs in Belarus. More than 60 percent of IT specialists are engaged in outsourcing services. The share of IT in the country’s GDP is 7.7 percent. IBA Group is one of the largest IT service providers in Central and Eastern Europe. In 2017, the company’s revenue was $117.3 million. In 2018, IBA Group continued to strengthen its expertise in digital banking and electronic document management, and in solutions for the transport sector. In addition, the company expanded its global presence, opening a new office in Bulgaria. IBA Group was listed in leading global rankings, including Software 500 IBA Group is a member of IAOP® (USA), Belarus’ and The Global Outsourcing 100, and won major awards, including High-Tech Park, the Scientific and Technological European IT & Software Excellence Awards and GSA Global Sourcing Awards (For more information, see Appendix 2. Awards and Association Infopark (Belarus), and Emerging Europe Recognition). Alliance (UK). Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Business Overview | Mission, Vision, and Values | Organizational Structure | Business Ethics and Practice IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Managing the Company Mission, Vision, and Values Mission Vision Our Values The IBA Group’s mission is to IBA Group seeks to become the world's most trusted provider of IT Customers effect change and improve services. We are committed to working in partnership with our clients, Striving for maximum satisfaction of business performance for our where each shares common interests, values, and goals. We are also customers’ needs based on the optimal clients through the use of striving to be a workplace of choice for the best IT professionals who combination of latest information advanced information enjoy and care about their job at IBA Group. IBA Group will be technologies and solutions, customer technologies. recognized as a well–managed and financially strong company orientation and reliable partnership. dedicated to the success of its clients and employees. Employees Building a team of experts and providing them with conditions for efficient work, as well as professional and personal development. Quality Designing high quality products and solutions that meet advanced international standards and are based on the following company’s strengths. • Business reputation of a reliable partner • Qualified employees • Effective solutions and innovative technologies • Quality management system • Productive ideas and innovations. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Business Overview | Mission, Vision, and Values | Organizational Structure | Business Ethics and Practice IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Managing the Company Strategy, Goals, and Tasks The main strategic goal of IBA Group is sustainable business development, with a 15% revenue growth rate and a profitability of at least 20% for each year. To obtain longterm benefits for shareholders, customers, employees, partners, and communities, IBA Group sets the following business objectives. • Improve industry expertise to ensure a thorough understanding of key customers’ businesses and to be able to provide end-to-end services, resulting in the company’s ability to compete for international projects of global companies • Strengthen expertise in innovative technologies and methodologies with their subsequent use in software and hardware solutions • Improve marketing activities to increase the efficiency of investments in proprietary products and solutions. This includes research and analysis of market segments to determine trends, consumption volumes, price levels, economic and political environment, and technical requirements for products • Invest in the development of employee competencies, increasing employee satisfaction and motivation • Meet quality indicators set for products and project deliverables to achieve customer satisfaction • Develop G2B and G2C services using a model of public-private partnership and investing in the development of IBA Data Center • Support IT education in the countries of presence as one of the main sources of the company’s human resources. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Business Overview | Mission, Vision, and Values | Organizational Structure | Business Ethics and Practice IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Managing the Company Goals • Accumulate vertical industry expertise and create a portfolio of the IBA’s core competencies • Build up efforts to establish and maintain partnerships and mutually beneficial relations with world IT leaders • Foster employee motivation and loyalty through social and development support. Goals for 2018 • Increase stability and reduce risks through business diversification, and expansion to new markets and new industries • Provide high quality services and solutions to ensure customer satisfaction and attract new customers • Support employees through competitive salaries and a benefit package. To solve emerging tasks, IBA Group took the following actions. • Expanded the range of services through the use of innovative technologies • Created new products and solutions using advanced technologies • Provided high quality integrated services to customers • Supported employees by raising salaries in line with productivity growth and giving access to the benefit package • Organized certification and recertification of IBA Group’s development centers to comply with international standards • Supported universities in IT training by creating special courses, equipping research laboratories, Our strategy is successful and providing support to IT championships and other events. partnership. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Business Overview | Mission, Vision, and Values | Organizational Structure | Business Ethics and Practice IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Managing the Company Organizational Structure The highest governance body of IBA Group is the Board of Directors. The Board outlines the company’s strategic objectives, elects Chairman of the Board, and appoints the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and the directors of IBA Group’s member companies. The Chairman and CEO is responsible for translation of the company’s strategic goals into action. Functional Structure IBA Group incorporates development centers, sales offices, training and technical centers, and other legal entities. • IBA IT Park, Development Center, Minsk, Belarus • IBA Gomel, Development Center, Gomel, Belarus • IBA Institute, Minsk, Belarus • IBA CZ, Development Center, Prague, Brno, and Ostrava, Czech Republic • IBA Slovakia, Bratislava, Slovakia • IBA IT GmbH, Kierspe — Rönsahl, Germany • IBA USA, San Jose, CA, USA • IBA Rus, Moscow, Russian Federation • IBA Kz, IBA Group Office and Development Center, Astana, Kazakhstan • IBA Ukraine, Kiev, Ukraine • IBA UK, London, United Kingdom • IBA South Africa, Johannesburg, South Africa • IBA Bulgaria, Development Center, Burgas, Bulgaria • IBA — Information Business Architectures, Development Center, Minsk, Belarus • IBA Mogilev, IBA Office, Mogilev, Belarus • IBA Novopolotsk, IBA Office, Novopolotsk, Belarus Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Business Overview | Mission, Vision, and Values | Organizational Structure | Business Ethics and Practice IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Managing the Company Production Structure The IBA Group’s development centers consist of software development divisions (production departments). For its development centers, IBA employs a matrix organizational Client IBA Group Board structure, which is flexible and adaptive to customer requirements. A software department typically consists of several project teams. A team is headed by a Project Manager and may include employees from different production departments. Each team member reports to the Project Manager and the head of his/her production department. IBA Group CEO Sales and Quality Information Marketing Management Security Technical Support Department Department Department IBA Minsk IBA Gomel IBA CZ IBA Kz IBA Slovakia IBA Bulgaria Project Team Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Business Overview | Mission, Vision, and Values | Organizational Structure | Business Ethics and Practice IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Managing the Company Company Management The IBA Group’s management team is composed of experienced leaders who had successful careers as senior executives and who continually steer the company to success. Sergei Levteev Chairman of the Board Chief Executive Officer Sergei Levteev has been IBA CEO since the company's inception in 1993. In 2005, he was elected Chairman of the Board of IBA Group. Mr. Levteev spearheads all aspects of the company's business efforts, including overall vision and strategy. During his tenure, a small firm evolved into an international group of 2,500+ employees. Sergei holds a B.S. degree in electronic engineering from the Belarusian State University of Informatics and Radio Electronics (BSUIR). Prior to IBA, he spent four years with the computer engineering association BelNPOVT. His career also included serving at Elorg-Data, a Finland-based IT company. Sergei Levteev believes that building the company from the ground up is one of the greatest experiences in his life. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Business Overview | Mission, Vision, and Values | Organizational Structure | Business Ethics and Practice IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Managing the Company Sergei Akoulich Kirill Degtiarenko Deputy Chairman of the Board at IBA Group VP, Sales Operations Chief Executive Officer at IBA IT Park Kirill Degtiarenko joined IBA in 1997 as a programmer in a project for Sergei Akoulich has been working at IBA since 1999. From 2007 to 2011, he IBM Germany. The same year, he was appointed as Software Manager served as Business Development Director at IBA Minsk. In 2011, he was responsible for day-to-day management of international projects. Since elected a member of the IBA Group’s Board of Directors and appointed as 2005, Kirill has been in charge of sales and marketing activities in the First Deputy CEO of IBA Minsk. In 2013, Sergei was promoted to the segment of new markets in Europe, Africa, and the United States. Since position of Chief Executive Officer of IBA IT Park. 2018, Kirill Degtiarenko has been a Member of the Board of IBA Group. Sergei Akoulich holds an M.S. degree in the automation of technological Kirill holds a Bachelor of Science degree in mathematics and electronics processes from the Belarusian State University of Informatics and from the Belarusian State University and a Professional Diploma in Radioelectronics (BSUIR) and a B.S. degree in the automation and Management from the British Open University. management of technological systems from this university. His credentials Kirill Degtiarenko keeps expanding his knowledge base and improving include a Professional Certificate in Management from the British Open professional skills. In 2014, he became a Certified Outsourcing University. Professional (COP), following an examination process and a rigorous His incredible stamina, self-discipline, and capacity for work enable Sergei peer review conducted by the International Association of Outsourcing to reach goals that are not achievable for others. Professionals (IAOP). Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Business Overview | Mission, Vision, and Values | Organizational Structure | Business Ethics and Practice IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Managing the Company Business Ethics and Practice IBA Group adheres to high ethical standards and seeks to work honestly and transparently. IBA Group strives to develop a trusting and mutually beneficial cooperation that is based on strict fulfillment of contractual obligations and adherence to business ethics. IBA Group introduced the Code of Ethics, setting out a system of corporate values that are fundamental to the company’s efficient operation and long-term success. IBA Group created universal rules and equal conditions for all employees. Internal labor regulations provide for employees’ accountability for violations of labor discipline. IBA Group observes the rules of fair competition. This is stated in a number of documents that regulate the company’s activities and include the following positions. • Strict compliance with the law • Norms of ethical behavior and prevention of corruption • Certification of management systems (QMS, ISMS) for compliance with international standards. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Business Overview | Mission, Vision, and Values | Organizational Structure | Business Ethics and Practice IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Managing the Company Principles and Standards of Behavior Leadership Partnership Conscientiousness Be initiative Maintain reliable, trusted relations Follow rules and standards • Be actively involved in projects and tasks • Always complete tasks • Complete tasks on time and meeting requirements • Believe in success in any situation • Find an individual approach to every client • Act in accordance with the company’s values • Inspire by example • Solve production tasks quickly and • Do not abuse the company’s trust • Know how to unite and lead the team efficiently • Respect and trust each other and partners Always achieve goals Do not be afraid of responsibility • Adapt to new circumstances • Learn from failures Be honest and open-minded • Succeed even with limited resources • Take responsibility • Build an open business relationship • Achieve the best results without losing quality • Admit failures • Assist colleagues readily • Work to achieve goals, not for the sake of process • Maintain a positive working mood in any • Be willing to share knowledge situation • Maintain confidential and open relations Value the company’s reputation • Be demanding to yourself and others Strive for success Be responsible • Do your job in the best possible way, so that the client • Focus on achieving results • Always keep promises and be honest with will be willing to use the company’s services again • Learn continuously partners • Fulfill obligations using the best ways to solve • Set ambitious goals • Aspire to exceed partners’ expectations complicated tasks • Treat other people with respect • Develop professional competencies and maintain high qualification. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Business Overview | Mission, Vision, and Values | Organizational Structure | Business Ethics and Practice IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Managing the Company Anti-Corruption IBA Group is opposed to all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery, and is guided by the highest ethical standards in partner relations, which is stated in the company’s Code of Ethics. IBA Group introduced the position of CEO Assistant for Security who monitors and prevents corruption and violation of anti-corruption laws among employees. Publicity and Transparency IBA Group is included in global rankings that demand public In 2018, IBA Group received the TRACE Anti-Bribery Compliance disclosure of the company’s results. In 2018, IBA Group was certificate, which confirms that the company fully complies with ranked #315 in the Software Magazine’s Software 500 ranking of the world’s largest software service providers. national and international anti-corruption standards and adheres to the fundamental principles of fairness, transparency of This ranking requires publication of the company's annual information, and financial responsibility in all areas. turnover, revenues from software services, company profits, and research and development expenses. IBA Group has been included in Software 500 since 2008. Using a corporate website1 and social media accounts2, the company provides updates and communicates with stakeholders on a regular basis. IBA Group implements outsourcing projects, which makes most of the information about customers and projects confidential. Non-disclosure agreements (NDAs) are part of outsourcing contracts. If required by a customer, NDAs are signed directly with the IBA Group employees involved in the projects. The IBA Group’s internal labor regulations provide for employees’ obligation not to disclose the trade secrets of the employer and third parties. 1 https://ibagroupit.com/ 2 https://www.facebook.com/IBAGroupIT/ https://www.linkedin.com/company/iba-group https://www.instagram.com/iba_group/ https://twitter.com/Ibagroup/ Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Business Overview | Mission, Vision, and Values | Organizational Structure | Business Ethics and Practice IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Managing the Company Protection of and Respect for Human Rights IBA Group fully complies with national and international laws on human rights. The company creates fair and decent working conditions for all employees, complies with national and international standards in the field of equal opportunities, and supports the principles of respect for racial, religious, physical, and other differences of employees. IBA Group strictly adheres to the principles of privacy. The company does not employ forced or compulsory labor in any form, nor does it discriminate its employees. IBA Group does not exploit child labor. In protecting and observing human rights, the company is guided by the following documents. • Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact • United Nations Convention against Corruption • ETS 173: Criminal Law Convention on Corruption. IBA Group handles complaints and requests from employees using a database called Personnel Proposals. In 2018, IBA Group employees submitted 31 proposals, none of them concerning human rights. For discussions and exchange of opinions, IBA Group uses a corporate page on Workplace by Facebook and a corporate portal. Information Security Policy IBA Group respects every customer’s, provider’s, business partner’s, and employee’s right to inviolability and confidentiality of personal data. We use the latest technologies and standards to ensure the security of information of our customers. IBA takes adequate measures to organize physical access control, logical access control, in-house security control, and data transfer protection. IBA Group and external auditors conduct annual security audits at all company sites. The IBA Group’s information security service constantly monitors the corporate network and checks the organization’s activities for compliance with regulatory acts. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Business Overview | Mission, Vision, and Values | Organizational Structure | Business Ethics and Practice IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Developing a Sustainable Business Sustainability Management Since its inception, IBA Group has been implementing a sustainable development policy and views it as a basis for the harmonious development of business, society, and the environment. As an IT company, IBA Group implements solutions that increase the efficiency of companies and organizations, as wells as strives to improve the quality of life by supporting IT education. IBA Group is a major contributor to the economies of Belarus and the Czech Republic, providing IT services and solutions for local clients, ensuring safe working environment and decent salary, and respecting human rights of its employees. CSR Program The company adopted a consistent corporate social responsibility (CSR) program in 2008. The CSR program complies with international standards and applies to all activities of IBA. CSR management is based on the mission, vision, and values of the company. IBA Group is a responsible corporate citizen that invests in society and contributes to environmental protection. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Sustainability Management | Contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals | Stakeholder Engagement IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Developing a Sustainable Business Employee Support Being a people–centered company, IBA Group provides its employees with healthy and comfortable working conditions and a friendly environment with a full scope of individual attention. We offer a benefit package that is commensurate with the great contribution that our employees make to our global success. Community Relations IBA Group contributes to the sustainable development of the communities in which it operates, improving the wellbeing of these communities. The company provides financial support to various organizations and vulnerable groups on a regular basis. Environmental Protection. Green IT Green IT is of high importance to IBA. The IBA development centers are located in the countries that are not rich in natural resources and therefore we strive to use electric power and other resources efficiently. IT Education The IBA CSR program stipulates that in its daily IBA Group cooperates with leading Belarusian, Czech, and Bulgarian IT operations the company is guided by the principles universities to create a reserve of young professionals. of ethical behavior, transparency, respect for the rule of law and international norms, and respect for human rights. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Sustainability Management | Contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals | Stakeholder Engagement IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Developing a Sustainable Business IBA Group and the UN Global Compact In 2018, IBA Group became a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact, the world’s leading voluntary corporate social responsibility initiative with more than 9,670 companies from 161 countries. As a signatory member, IBA Group confirmed that it supports the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact on human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. In addition, IBA Group pledged that it is committed to making the UN Global Compact (UNGC) and its principles part of the company’s strategy, culture and day-to-day operations, and to engaging in collaborative projects to advance the UN Sustainable Development Goals. The current Report demonstrates the IBA Group's support of the UN Global Compact initiatives. Sustainable development is the main strategic goal of IBA Group. Sergei Levteev, IBA Group Chairman: “This step underscores our commitment to corporate responsibility and sustainability that are firmly embedded in our strategy, values, and culture. Sustainability for us means creating a safe and comfortable working environment for our employees, developing IT education, and supporting vulnerable groups in the countries of our operations. This way, we contribute to a more sustainable society. As a signatory of the UN Global Compact, we reaffirm our commitment to the principles of social responsibility of business.” Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Sustainability Management | Contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals | Stakeholder Engagement IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Developing a Sustainable Business Monitoring and Evaluation IBA participates annually in The Global Outsourcing 100, a ranking that recognizes the world’s best outsourcing service providers. Companies are first organized by IBA Group works in accordance with international standards of Leader or Rising Star criteria and then evaluated based on the following five professionalism, management, and technologies and cares about judging categories. compliance with these standards. To raise the stakeholders’ level of trust and increase competitiveness, IBA Group evaluates its 1. Size and Growth as measured by revenue, employees, and global presence. activities. 2. Customer References as demonstrated through value being created at the company’s top customers. IBA Group regularly conducts internal audits and certified 3. Awards and Certifications as demonstrated through the value being created organizations perform annual external audits at IBA Group. through industry recognition, and relevant organizational and individual In 2018, IBA Group successfully re-certified its quality professional certifications. management systems to ISO 9001:2015 and to ISO 14001:2015, 4. Programs for Innovation as demonstrated through specific programs and as well as its security management system to ISO/IEC 27001:2013. resulting outcomes that produce new forms of value for customers. The company implemented and certified the systems to ensure 5. Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) as shown through corporate programs sustainable development. and outcomes that address such topics as community involvement and development, labor practices, human rights, fair operating practices, environmental impacts, consumer issues, and organizational governance. In addition, IBA Group received its second consecutive title of a Super Star of the Global Outsourcing 100 and was recognized as Top In 2018, IBA Group was listed among The Global Company for Customer References (8 points), Awards & Certifications Outsourcing 100 companies in the Leader (8 points), Programs for Innovation (7 points), and Programs for judging category for the sixth consecutive year. Corporate Social Responsibility (8 points), 8 being the highest score. The IBA Group’s average score exceeded the overall average score of the top 100. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Sustainability Management | Contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals | Stakeholder Engagement IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Developing a Sustainable Business Key Achievements and Goals in Sustainable Development CSR / Sustainable Development Goals Key Achievements in 2018 Goals for 2019 Goals for 3 to 5 Years Provide high quality IT services and Based on the annual customer survey, the solutions through the use of advanced Maintain and improve customer Keep customer satisfaction above 90 customer satisfaction rate was more than technologies and first rate customer satisfaction score. percent. 90 percent. service. The suite of software development services Expand the range of products and services Expand the RPA / ML / AI portfolio from Increase the share of projects using the expanded to include RPA, ML, and AI. New using innovative technologies from world one provider to four. Continue mastering latest technologies in the total volume of SAP and other traditional technologies IT leaders. new technologies. IBA Group's projects. were introduced. Expand the client base by conquering new Open a second sales office in the US. markets, penetrating new vertical IBA opened a new office in Bulgaria. Expand cooperation with customers and Establish local partnership in the industries, and creating partnerships with partners in Europe, America, and Africa. Balkans. Expand project geography. clients. Integrate new solutions in business Keep pace with innovations in IT and Solutions for HR management, agriculture, Create and implement new solutions at processes of IBA Group and its business areas. and anti-corruption. IBA Group customers and internally. customers. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Sustainability Management | Contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals | Stakeholder Engagement IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Developing a Sustainable Business Contribution to UN SDGs Economic growth must be Helping children's institutions, people with disabilities, and veterans. For more inclusive to provide information, see Section 4. Making Responsible Decisions. Charity and sustainable jobs and promote Sponsorship. equality. The food and agriculture sector offers key solutions for Creation of AgromonX, an IoT-based application for agriculture that automates crop development, and is central for production management. hunger and poverty eradication. IBA Group employees’ age ranges from 20 to 70+ years, which is not typical of young IT companies. Ten of the company’s employees are older than 70 years. These are top class Ensuring healthy lives and mainframe specialists. All employees have access to a benefit package that includes promoting the well-being for all at medical care, sports classes, cultural activities, and financial assistance. Former IBA all ages is essential to sustainable Group employees who retired have access to the benefit package too. development. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Sustainability Management | Contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals | Stakeholder Engagement IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Developing a Sustainable Business Contribution to UN SDGs The IBA Group’s training center evolved into the Institute of IT and Business Obtaining a quality education Administration (IBA Institute). It provides training to IBA employees, and corporate is the foundation to and individual customers, as well as conducts free IT and business training for improving people’s lives and people with disabilities. IBA Group has good and long-lasting relations with sustainable development. Belarusian universities, where IBA’s R&D labs are ongoing. IBA Group specialists train students at IBA courses and young people have internships within the company. IBA Group is a sponsor of programming contests and championships among school and university students. Gender equality is not only a fundamental human right, but a IT is a male-dominated industry. However, 40 percent of IBA Group employees are necessary foundation for a women. peaceful, prosperous and sustainable world. Sustainable economic growth will IBA Group is a responsible employer. The company’s staff includes 2,500+ employees. require societies to create the IBA Group equips R&D labs and school classrooms with computers. IBA Institute conditions that allow people to conducts IT and business training for people with disabilities to help them find have quality jobs. employment. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Sustainability Management | Contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals | Stakeholder Engagement IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Developing a Sustainable Business Contribution to UN SDGs To reduce inequalities, policies should be universal in principle, To work on international projects, IBA Group creates mixed teams that comprise employees from paying attention to the Belarus-based, Czech, and other IBA development centers. needs of disadvantaged and marginalized populations. IBA Group creates products and solutions that improve people’s lives, including a series of payment There needs to be a terminals, currency exchange terminals, an automated fare collection system for public transport, future in which cities automated fleet management systems, and online payment systems. provide opportunities for all, with access to basic services, energy, housing, transportation and more. IBA Group saves fuel and energy resources by using resource efficient technologies. Thus, IBA Data Center employs an innovative technology of heat recovery. The heat generated by the data center Responsible equipment is used to heat the IBA Fitness Center. Computers used at IBA Group have built-in energy consumption and saving systems that reduce power consumption during temporary interruptions in operation. Lighting production. systems use energy-efficient light sources. The water supply system has integrated devices that dispense the amount of water. For wet cleaning of premises, automatic floor cleaning machines are used, which allows for reducing water consumption. A waste sorting system is in place. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Sustainability Management | Contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals | Stakeholder Engagement IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Developing a Sustainable Business Contribution to UN SDGs Access to justice for all, and IBA Group aims to harmonize its activities with the values and expectations of building effective, society. The company continues to adhere to the principles of transparency and accountable institutions at all accountability, openly informing stakeholders about its activities and social and levels. environmental impact. On November 28, 2017, IBA Group signed an agreement on cooperation of socially Revitalize the global partnership for responsible organizations of Belarus in the implementation of CSR projects. On sustainable development. May 31, 2018, IBA Group became a signatory of the UN Global Compact. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Sustainability Management | Contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals | Stakeholder Engagement IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Developing a Sustainable Business Stakeholder Engagement IBA Group builds and maintains long-term relationships with stakeholders, taking into account their expectations and standpoints on various issues. PUBLICS • Shareholders • Employees • Customers • Suppliers (partners) • Media • Universities • National and local governments. OTHER STAKEHOLDERS • IT and business associations • Secondary educational institutions with IT specialization • Local communities. IBA Group is focused on meeting the interests of all stakeholders, including customers, employees, suppliers, and local communities. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Sustainability Management | Contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals | Stakeholder Engagement IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Developing a Sustainable Business Stakeholder Engagement Shareholders IBA Group uses various communication channels to encourage IBA Group meets the expectations of shareholders in terms of economic honest and open dialogue with stakeholders. growth. To keep its shareholders informed, the company discloses the results of audits and shares other information on the company’s website. Employees Interaction with employees and their engagement in the company's activities is an important component of the corporate culture of IBA Group. To meet the expectations and needs of employees, an open dialogue is maintained through various communication channels, including meetings, surveys, intranet and Facebook Workplace postings, electronic correspondence, office displays, corporate websites, and social media. Clients and Partners To ensure consistent quality and customer satisfaction, the company's management team maintains contacts with external stakeholders, primarily customers. The engagement channels include the following. • Meetings with representatives of current and potential customers and partners • Participation in exhibitions, workshops, conferences, and other events • Membership in trade associations • Support of and participation in joint projects with universities and other educational institutions. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Sustainability Management | Contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals | Stakeholder Engagement IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Developing a Sustainable Business Stakeholder Engagement in 2018 Key Interaction Mechanisms Key Events in 2018 Stakeholders Expectations/Interests Development of strategy and founding Revenue surplus. Positive documents. Direct control of the Changes in the IBA Group Board. Growth in key indicators. company reputation. Shareholders company. High wages. Favorable Regular wages and performance-based Rewarding of the best employees of the year and honored environment and safe bonuses. Engagement in company employees (veterans) of IBA Group. Tourist rally with participation working conditions. activities. Benefit Package database in of 1,600+ employees. Benefit package. intranet, where employees can sign up For more information, see Section 4. Making Responsible Professional for a variety of sports and cultural Decisions. Employee Support. development. events held or sponsored by the Employees company. Training Database in intranet with access to various training courses. Talent Constructor HRM solution facilitates employee development. All applications and databases were developed by IBA Group employees. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Sustainability Management | Contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals | Stakeholder Engagement IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Developing a Sustainable Business Stakeholder Engagement in 2018 Key Interaction Mechanisms Key Events in 2018 Stakeholders Expectations/Interests High quality services that Offshore and onshore delivery models Six-time winner of Belarusian Government Quality Award. meet customer with IBA teams working in cooperation Winner in European IT & Software Excellence Awards, category requirements and with customer teams. Software Innovation Solution of the Year for an RPA project. Customers international standards. High sales of partners' Partnership and distribution Partnership agreement with WorkFusion, a leader in intelligent products. agreements. Affiliate programs and automation. partner levels. Collaborative activities. Partnership agreement with Positive Technologies, a supplier of Contests among partners. cybersecurity products and services (Partner on MaxPatrol). Partners IBA CZ was appointed as Microsoft Gold Partner for Application Development. Prompt provision of Press conferences, roundtable Publications in international (7) and local media (up to 100). information of interest to discussions, interviews, articles, and the media. other. Media Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Sustainability Management | Contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals | Stakeholder Engagement IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Developing a Sustainable Business Stakeholder Engagement in 2018 Key Interaction Mechanisms Key Events in 2018 Stakeholders Expectations/Interests Equipment, software, Seven research laboratories at In 2018, IBA hired more than 170 students and graduates. and training programs. universities of Belarus. Training courses Belarus: 11 training courses, the total of 1,457 academic hours. In Sponsorship of for students and lecturers. Cooperation 2018, more than 100 students and graduates with course international and local with universities of the Czech Republic completion certificates found employment at IBA Group. championships and and Bulgaria. Czech Republic: Partner's Day and a course of lectures at Masaryk Universities competitions. University. Bulgaria: A partnership agreement with Burgas Free University. A course in Linux System Programming using C for 20 students. You can find more information in Section 4. Making Responsible Decisions. IT Education. Compliance with local Participation in tenders. Development Introduction of contactless payment system in Minsk Metro. laws. Participation in of solutions for automation of business national programs on processes. automation and Government informatization of authorities government agencies and institutions. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Sustainability Management | Contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals | Stakeholder Engagement IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Developing a Sustainable Business Stakeholder Engagement in 2018 Key Interaction Mechanisms Key Events in 2018 Stakeholders Expectations/Interests Participation in industry Resident company of Joining the Emerging Europe Alliance. Sergei Akoulich, CEO of IBA IT Park and events and projects. Belarus’ Hi Tech Park and member of IBA Group Board, was elected a member of the Infopark Council. Lobbying industry’s a member of IAOP, IT and interests. Infopark Association, and outsourcing Emerging Europe associations Alliance. Computerization of Sponsorship. Financial support of Minsk State Palace of Children and Youth, and Orsha schools. Financial District Department of Education, Sports and Tourism. support for schools and Secondary IT contests. educational institutions Ethical and Support of people with IBA Group was selected the winner of the 2018 GSA Global Sourcing Awards in environmental disabilities, Belarusian the category Excellence in Corporate Social Responsibility for the project compliance. Children's Hospice, war Personal and Professional Empowerment of Disabled People in Belarus. Local Participation in veterans, and children's IBA Group provides financial support to Nursery & Kindergarden #383 in Minsk. communities environmental and institutions. IBA launched Auto Volunteers app aimed to help children with disabilities. humanitarian projects. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Sustainability Management | Contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals | Stakeholder Engagement IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Developing a Sustainable Business Memberships in International Initiatives and Associations in 2018 Name Date of Adhesion Status IAOP 2014 Member Emerging Europe Alliance 2018 Member High Tech Park 2006 Resident Association Infopark 2005 Member Agreement on cooperation of socially 2017 Signatory responsible companies of Belarus UN Global Compact 2018 Signatory Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Sustainability Management | Contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals | Stakeholder Engagement IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Implementing Innovations Quality Improvement Processes Quality Management IBA Group provides its customers with high quality services and solutions. The IBA Group’s quality management system is based on ISO 9001 and CMMI (Capability Maturity Model Engagement of all Recognition and reward of Empowerment of Professional development Integration). employees in quality achievements in quality employees to set goals and motivation of assurance activities and innovation and make decisions employees The company continuously improves processes related to product development, organizational and management structures, management systems, personnel training, corporate culture, working conditions, infrastructure, and stakeholder engagement. Creation of safe and Introduction of new comfortable working technologies and Creation of corporate Improvement of conditions innovations culture infrastructure The improvement is implemented using the PDCA model (Plan-Do-Check-Act). Development of employee Use of the company’s Implementation of motivation programs Resource allocation potential innovations Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Quality Management | Mobile Technologies | Cloud Technologies | Robotic Process Automation (RPA) IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Implementing Innovations To encourage innovation, the IBA’s Innovation Commission was transformed into the IBA Accelerator Portal. The portal focuses on search, development, testing, and implementation of innovative ideas. Management Systems To implement policies and achieve objectives in the field of quality and information security management, the company has the following certified management systems (MS) in place.  Quality management system for design, development, production, and maintenance of software and automated systems, compliant with STB ISO 9001-2015, DIN EN ISO 9001:2015; ČSN EN ISO 9001:2016, and ČSN ISO/IEC 20000-1:2012  Information security management system for development, production, and maintenance of software and automated information systems, compliant with STB ISO/IEC 27001-2016 and ČSN ISO/IEC 27001:2014. The IBA Group's management team carries out regular inspections of the company's operations. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Quality Management | Mobile Technologies | Cloud Technologies | Robotic Process Automation (RPA) IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Implementing Innovations IBA Group management analyzes performance in line with requirements of the IBA– MAN.1 Leadership process, taking into account semi-annual internal audit reports and annual performance reports. The results of analyses are included in the minutes of the meetings of the Standing Committee for Quality Assessment (SCQA). In 2018, the goals and objectives set by the company regarding quality management were fully met, which is reflected in the report on the effectiveness of management systems and in the results of external audits. Customer Satisfaction IBA Group management is aware of the role that quality management plays in solving economic and social issues. A special emphasis is placed on meeting the needs and expectations of customers and partners. To study satisfaction levels, the following information is taken into account and analyzed. • Reviews in the media • Feedback and appreciation letters from users or customers • User opinions obtained during marketing surveys • Findings of surveys • Registered bugs or other defects. Project managers, project teams, and account managers perform continuous monitoring of customer satisfaction during project implementation. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Quality Management | Mobile Technologies | Cloud Technologies | Robotic Process Automation (RPA) IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Implementing Innovations Project groups monitor customer satisfaction in real time during project Audits of Management Systems status meetings and when discussing issues that arise in the course of IBA Group is continuously working on the development, project execution. implementation, and improvement of management systems to IBA Group conducts annual customer surveys. ensure stable quality and information security, and reduce project Customer Satisfaction Growth risks. The company developed management processes that cover all activities that might affect the software quality. 100 92.12 92.25 95.37 90 IBA Group conducts internal audits in line with the IBA-MR.1 89.5 89.75 90 80 procedure Internal Audit and Software QMS Audit Programs for 2018. 70 60 Internal Inspections in 2018 50 2016 2017 2018 Actual Planned Period July Event January December Project curators and process owners analyze survey findings and discuss June 2018 2018 these at SCQA meetings. The conclusions made by the Committee lay the ground for corrective actions and plans for improvement of the Number of scheduled inspections 35 33 management systems. Number of unscheduled inspections 2 – Number of minor issues detected 4 2 Based on findings and conclusions of the surveys, IBA Group develops an action plan to improve customer Number of major issues detected – – satisfaction. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Quality Management | Mobile Technologies | Cloud Technologies | Robotic Process Automation (RPA) IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Implementing Innovations Audit Results • The program of audits was executed in full and taking into account all objectives and tasks in quality improvement • No violations of the internal audit procedures were detected • Audit time frames were met • Audit results were registered in a timely manner in line with IBASCP9.2 and stored in the QMS audit database • Audit teams are comprised of competent and qualified professionals (auditors’ training and certificates are registered in Training Database). The internal audits of 2018 resulted in six corrective actions. IBA Group conducts external information security audits. Since 2012, IBM has been conducting annual information security audits of IBA Group's operations. All audits were rated as satisfactory, which demonstrates efficiency of the IBA’s policies in information security. The program of audits is executed in full and meeting all quality management objectives. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Quality Management | Mobile Technologies | Cloud Technologies | Robotic Process Automation (RPA) IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Implementing Innovations Mobile Technologies IBA Group develops enterprise applications for banks, manufacturing enterprises, and other businesses. The applications automate workflow, optimize communication between employees, and address a variety of other issues. Mobile Projects Mobile Acquiring Service payBYcard enables users to accept payments for goods/services using a smartphone/tablet or a connected card reader. Automated Fare Collection (AFC) System. Minsk citizens and visitors can pay for a single journey in the public transport using smartcards or other NFC devices. The AFC System functions in 3,000 buses, trolleybuses, and trams, as well as in Minsk Metro. In addition, IBA Group implemented the AFC System in Gomel (Belarus), Kaliningrad (Russia), and Dushanbe (Tajikistan). Transport BY allows for tracking the movement of public transport, viewing the current transport timetables and the arrival time of a vehicle at a particular bus stop, and planning a convenient in-city and inter-city routes. More than 3,000 users downloaded the application in the first 10 days. Currently, the application works in Gomel and 11 cities of Gomel Region. Chancellor Smart is a mobile application designed for efficient and convenient online and offline remote work with an electronic document management (EDM) system using iOS and Android mobile devices. The application can be integrated with other EDM systems on any platform. Auto Volunteers application for the Belarusian Children's Hospice was created by IBA Group developers within the Engineering Charity Marathon Hospice Project Auto Volunteers. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Quality Management | Mobile Technologies | Cloud Technologies | Robotic Process Automation (RPA) IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Implementing Innovations Cloud Technologies Cloud technologies reduce hardware costs, enable developers to share projects with customers and co-workers, ensure protection against data loss, and simplify development and deployment of applications. • IBA Cloud Platform is an easy-to-use cloud computing platform that provides centralized management of public and private clouds, and enables companies to migrate their traditional applications and develop new services for their customers in a dedicated and safe virtual environment • In 2018, IBA Cloud Platform was launched in production. • Data Storage: IBA Data Center is a detached two-floor building, designed and built in compliance with international information security standards. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Quality Management | Mobile Technologies | Cloud Technologies | Robotic Process Automation (RPA) IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Implementing Innovations Modification of IBA Solutions for Deployment in IBA Cloud Platform Based on Saas APPULSE is a centralized support platform for business applications that run on z/OS servers. Contains an AI module that generates and prompts problem solutions based on accumulated data. Solutions for Retail Banking: Internet Banking, Mobile Banking, payment and currency exchange terminals, business planning and budgeting, scoring and statistical analysis, and other systems. Reduced queuing time in banks and positive user experience. Start Point is a cloud service designed for collaborative product development and maintenance, product data management (PDM), Product Lifecycle Management (PLM), and electronic document management (EDM) of engineering data. IBA Group Security is a suite of products and services designed for development, implementation, and maintenance of information security systems. IBA Visual Analysis Studio is an analytical solution for identification of fraud schemes. Talent Constructor is a family of software products designed for effective human resource management. AgronomX is a software and hardware platform based on the Internet of Things (IoT). Collects information about the field’s current state via sensors, weather stations, smart devices, and satellites. Enables farmers to minimize crop losses during crop cultivation and storage. IBA AVM is an automated fleet management system designed for a passenger transportation operator to conduct a centralized traffic control. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Quality Management | Mobile Technologies | Cloud Technologies | Robotic Process Automation (RPA) IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Implementing Innovations Robotic Process Automation (RPA) Robotic Process Automation (RPA) is the automation of business processes using software robots. RPA enables businesses to streamline repetitive tasks, including sorting of incoming emails, responding to chat messages or extracting useful information from documents. IBA Group partners with leading RPA software providers to re-package and automate complex business processes. IBA Group renders Smart RPA services based on Machine Learning (ML) and Artificial Intelligence (AI). IBA EmailBot In 2018, IBA Group created IBA EmailBot, capable of sorting incoming emails at the customer support centers. Groups typical customer requests by content, sends automatic responses, creates tickets, and gathers statistic data. Frees employees from repetitive operations, allowing them to focus on creative tasks. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Quality Management | Mobile Technologies | Cloud Technologies | Robotic Process Automation (RPA) IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Making Responsible Decisions Environmental Protection Environmental policy is an integral part of the CSR program of IBA Group. As an IT company, IBA Group does not have a direct impact on the environment. Company’s environmental activities comply with environmental laws in the countries of presence and international standards. It is also very important for IBA Group that its partners comply with environmental laws and share the company's values in the field of environmental protection. IBA Group maintains focus on energy efficiency and participates in environmental activities that increase environmental awareness. Efficient Environmental Protection IBA Group developed and approved the following Guidelines on the implementation of industrial environmental control. • Exercise control over observance of requirements for environmental protection by company employees • Develop plans for the implementation of production control in the company • Develop action plans in the field of environmental protection • Organize training and certification (knowledge assessment) of employees in environmental protection. The results of industrial environmental control are documented, specifying the detected violations, if any. Local authorities conduct regular company’s inspections that include measurement of risk factors in the work environment, including microclimate, noise, electromagnetic fields, and other occupational hazards. The inspections show that the measured parameters do not exceed The inspections show that the measured parameters do not exceed the permissible levels and comply with the hygienic standards. the permissible levels and comply with the hygienic standards. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Environmental Protection | Employee Support | IT Education | Charity and Sponsorship IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Making Responsible Decisions Improvement of Environmental Management System In 2018, IBA Group developed its Environmental Program. The document is aimed at preserving the environment through the use of energy-saving technologies, and effective management of working environment and infrastructure. It also provides for safe working conditions, healthy morale, and ecological awareness of employees. To manage the Environmental Program, IBA Group signed outsourcing contracts with companies that specialize in environmental protection. Each year, an environmental passport is issued for the company, keeping record of the amount of generated waste. Recently, IBA introduced a waste sorting system. Environmental Impact For better distribution and efficient use of fuel and energy resources, IBA Group annually develops and approves fuel and energy consumption norms. In addition, the company keeps track of changes in the level of greenhouse gas emissions in CO2 equivalent, relevant to electricity and heat consumption. Every year, an Action Program aimed at the reduction of consumption of fuel and energy resources is developed and approved. In 2018, the Action Program focused on timely shutdown of unused lighting and power equipment, optimization of the ventilation system switching schedule, awareness-raising activities among employees, and maximization of natural light usage. The company keeps record of water consumption. Water meters are installed. Implementation of organizational and technical actions ensures annual reduction in fuel and energy consumption. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Environmental Protection | Employee Support | IT Education | Charity and Sponsorship IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Making Responsible Decisions Energy Efficiency and Conservation In the design, construction, and operation of buildings, IBA Group implements integrated solutions aimed at decreasing consumption and increasing efficiency of energy resources. Energy-efficient power, heat, hot water supply, ventilation, and air conditioning are in operation in the IBA Group campus, primarily in the office building, IBA Data Center, and IBA Fitness Center. To optimize heat and electricity consumption, IBA Group takes the following actions. • Air handling units are equipped with heat recovery systems. Rotary heat exchangers of at least 65 percent efficiency are used for office premises and 30 percent heat exchangers with intermediate heating medium are used for cafeteria. Rotary heat exchangers have hygroscopic coating, which ensures heat and moisture return and reduces air conditioning load in summer • Regulation units are equipped with three-way valves on the supply line and circulation pumps with frequency control on the return line to optimize heat consumption in the air handling units • Heat curtains are equipped with built-in thermostats and 5-speed fans. Fan speed and temperature are maintained automatically • Heating units are equipped with an automatic temperature control system • Heating devices are equipped with thermostats to maintain specified air parameters in the premises. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Environmental Protection | Employee Support | IT Education | Charity and Sponsorship IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Making Responsible Decisions • Air conditioning is water cooled. Fan coil units are equipped with an automatic control system consisting of a control valve and an in-room controller • Ventilation and air conditioning systems are equipped with a dispatching system that allows for 24/7 automatic operation planning • Fans in the air handling units are equipped with performance frequency regulators to prevent air overconsumption and optimize pressure in the duct network • Pumping equipment of ventilation and air conditioning systems, as well as water supply and heating systems are equipped with frequency converters • Input-distribution devices, and power and lighting boards are located in the load center, which reduces voltage losses in internal electrical networks and ensures the most economical power cabling • For artificial lighting, energy-efficient lamps are used. All lamps are equipped with an electronic control gear (ECG) and have a high power factor, which reduces the operating current of the lamp, power consumption when switched on, and consequently voltage loss in the lines • Electrical wiring in the buildings is made of copper-conductor cables. Group and distribution networks are laid in trays, in cable channels, and on clamps along the shortest path, which reduces voltage losses and improves cooling of current-carrying conductors • Transformer substations are made of block sets and are located close to the center of electrical loads, which reduces losses in 0.4 KV cable lines • Photo relays and time delay relays are used for automatic lighting control. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Environmental Protection | Employee Support | IT Education | Charity and Sponsorship IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Making Responsible Decisions To save thermal energy produced by ventilation and heating systems, IBA uses time-varying Energy Efficiency Indicators for IBA Group control systems. Pipelines of heat supply systems, mains, and risers of the heating system Campus Buildings, 2018 are thermally insulated. Planned Actual The heating system is equipped with control and balancing valves to ensure stability of the Total Fuel Energy Resources (FER), 564 558 system and enable consumers to regulate heat consumption. The low hydraulic resistance of cumulative energy costs, actual (TCE) the heating system allows for the use of pumps with low energy consumption. In the Sales volume per unit of energy ventilation system, plate and rotary heat exchangers are used. 151.8 180.7 consumption, thousand rubles/TCE The heat pump is connected in parallel with heat engines to recuperate low-grade heat Increase in the efficiency of fuel and 19.0% generated by the equipment of the server room. The recovered heat is used for heating, hot energy use (2018 vs 2017), % water supply, and ventilation of IBA Fitness Center and IBA Data Center. Consumption of Fuel and Energy 0.36 0.33 Resources per worker, TCE/person Production Waste Management Thirteen types of production waste are generated by the company. All waste is separated by Savings in the use of Fuel and Energy 9.0% type in line with the waste and hazard class classification systems, effective in the countries Resources per worker (2018 vs 2017), % of presence. IBA Group developed Production Waste Management Guidelines in coordination with local authorities. Production waste collection and disposal is carried out by IBA contractors. Waste disposal Waste is subject to mandatory accounting meets the Technical Code of Common Practice 17.02-12-2014 (02120), Form collection, accounting, storage, use, POD-10. IBA Group submits waste disposal statistics annually in line with national and international laws. transfer for processing, and disposal to specialized enterprises. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Environmental Protection | Employee Support | IT Education | Charity and Sponsorship IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Making Responsible Decisions Air Protection IBA Group seeks to reduce emissions of pollutants in the atmosphere, including the following. • Vehicle storage • Operation of diesel-driven generator sets • Car washing. To ensure environmentally friendly operation of vehicles, IBA Group concluded contracts with specialized organizations for the replacement of consumables (oils, antifreezes, and brake fluid). During vehicle maintenance, worn tires are sent for disposal. Ecological Awareness The company implements environmental projects, cooperates with stakeholders to address environmental issues, and informs stakeholders about environmental actions through different communication channels, including conferences, meetings, and roundtable discussions. IBA Group organizes voluntary green initiatives. Employees planted trees in IBA Group campus. A garden house was installed in the Minsk Children's Hospice. The initiatives are an excellent way to engage the employees into environmental projects and thereby raise ecological awareness. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Environmental Protection | Employee Support | IT Education | Charity and Sponsorship IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Making Responsible Decisions Employee Age Groups, 2018 Specialists vs Executives, 2018 21% 419 Employee Support ≤ 35 The IBA Group's personnel management policy meets local and international labor standards, and is in line with the corporate 47% 35-50 values. To attract and retain talent, IBA Group takes the following efforts. 50+ 2332 • Personnel development: new employee adaptation, Executives 32% professional development, expansion of competencies, Employees by Gender, 2018 Specialists training, and creation of a pool of candidates • Staff motivation and loyalty: decent wages and performancebased bonuses, various forms of recognition and moral encouragement, and social package 39% • Personnel’s awareness and engagement. Competition for IT professionals is ever increasing on local and 61% international markets, which results in very high attrition rates in the IT sector. IBA is proud to have one of the lowest attrition rates in the industry, both locally and internationally. In 2018, it was 8.5 Women Men percent. The IBA Group's main asset is talented employees. The company implements an array of activities and initiatives to attract, develop, and retain capable employees. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Environmental Protection | Employee Support | IT Education | Charity and Sponsorship IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Making Responsible Decisions Assessment of HR Management Customer Satisfaction, 2018 To encourage employees’ feedback and improve HR management, IBA 86 85.37 % Group applies the following techniques. • Direct access of employees to senior officials • Training assessment questionnaire in the Training database 84 • Staff Proposals database for complaints and suggestions 81.96 % • Regular employee surveys and polls. 82 80 Measuring Employee Satisfaction Since 2005, IBA Group has been conducting biennial employee satisfaction 78.1 % 78 77.63 % surveys in the corporate information system. In 2017, the company began measuring employee loyalty. 76 74 72 Engagement Identification Loyalty Satisfaction In 2018, the overall average satisfaction rate in IBA Group was 80.86%. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Environmental Protection | Employee Support | IT Education | Charity and Sponsorship IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Making Responsible Decisions Improving HR Management The programs are updated annually after a thorough analysis of the Efficient recruitment, assessment, and motivation of employees previous year's results. To this end, IBA Group applies the following enable IBA Group to achieve its goals. To this end, the company solutions and databases. leverages a variety of programs, techniques, and technologies. • Personnel Records • Candidate pool • Training • Fund for new employee support • Employee Certificates • Personnel record keeping • Surveys • Sponsorship of universities • Financial Requests • Personnel selection and adaptation • PMT PRS • Personnel training • Personnel Proposals • Internal communications • SQMS • Social programs. • ISMS • Talent Constructor • IBA portal. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Environmental Protection | Employee Support | IT Education | Charity and Sponsorship IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Making Responsible Decisions Personnel Training Employee Development and Training IBA Group implements a consistent employee development policy that includes the following initiatives. 1. Selection and 2. Defining training • IT training at training centers of world IT leaders and at the IBA Institute hiring of personnel needs • Certification of IT specialists • Foreign language courses: English, French, and German at the IBA Institute; • Corporate trainings, workshops, and conferences. Relevant information on qualifications, practical experience, education, and 3. Training 5. Assessment of Monitoring program training is systematically accumulated in personal files and employee registration training outcomes activities development and cards in the Personnel Records and Certificates databases. scheduling 4. Training sessions In 2018, more than 200 honorary diplomas were awarded to the best-performing employees. Seven employees were awarded Honorary IBA Employee titles. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Environmental Protection | Employee Support | IT Education | Charity and Sponsorship IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Making Responsible Decisions An Education Manager was appointed to coordinate training and career development programs for IBA Group's personnel. The company has an established procedure for evaluating the effectiveness of training courses and events. In 2018, the training effectiveness indicator was 85.3% vs planned 85%. Training at Training Centers of World IT Leaders On average, more than 700 IBA employees are trained annually in more than 30 leading training centers of Europe, including the following education providers: IBM Training Center (Moscow, Russia), SAP CIS (Moscow), School of Business and Management of Technology of the Belarusian State University (Minsk, Belarus), the IPM Business School (Minsk), the High Tech Park Educational Center, and IBA Institute. Number of trained employees in 2018: 736 Number of programs for career development and personnel training in 2018: 148 The company organizes regular language courses for employees. More than 200 employees attend foreign language courses annually. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Environmental Protection | Employee Support | IT Education | Charity and Sponsorship IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Making Responsible Decisions CASE STUDY HR Strategy Recruitment & Talent Constructor at HR Brand 2018 Adaptation About People and for People was the motto of the IBA Group’s solution Talent Constructor at the HR Brand 2018 conference held in Belarus. Targets & Profiles Efficiency IBA Group aimed to increase public awareness of the best projects and practices in HR, open new talents, and share experience. IBA organized a Core game contest entitled Lord of Talents. He contestants had to answer three questions offered by Talent Constructor in the quickest way. Working with Talent Constructor, the participants showed professionalism and Project Teams Integrated resourcefulness, and the best received IBA gifts. Assessment Training & Development Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Environmental Protection | Employee Support | IT Education | Charity and Sponsorship IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Making Responsible Decisions Search of Talents Relocation Creating and maintaining a team of first class IT and business Given the deficit of qualified specialists in specific IT fields, IBA Group invited a professionals is one of the company’s primary goals. To find qualified number of qualified professionals from Russia to work in Belarus. Favorable living professionals, the company uses different methods, from training of and working conditions in the country contributed to the initiative’s success. young specialists to inviting specialists from other companies. Referral Recruitment Program Employing Young Personnel IBA Group applies a referral recruitment program to attract new qualified IBA Group closely cooperates with higher educational institutions of personnel. As the company has an excellent working environment and a positive Belarus, the Czech Republic, and Bulgaria, contributing to training of reputation among the industry’s specialists, IBA employees refer candidates for university students. filling job openings. To improve the quality of education of IT specialists, maintain the Motivation and Social Guarantees ongoing and develop new lines of IT business, IBA Group provides financial assistance and conducts training courses on advanced IT The company has a motivation system in a form of motivation models. Functioning technologies at the joint IBA – university R&D labs. IBA experts share in a testing mode, the system is based on KPIs and is instrumental in the their practical experience with future IT specialists. Eventually, many assessment of the efficiency of employees working in the linear departments. Plans of the course attendees join the IBA Group’s team. For more details, are underway to launch the system in a pilot mode by the end of 2019. A see Section 4. Making Responsible Decisions. IT Education. motivation model for non-linear departments is also in place. In the near future, enhancement of the company’s HR brand will play a major role in the selection and retaining of talents, as well as in employee training and development. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Environmental Protection | Employee Support | IT Education | Charity and Sponsorship IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Making Responsible Decisions To strengthen the social protection of IBA employees and their families, Social events are grouped into the following programs. motivate employees, develop corporate culture, and instill a favorable • Medical care and recreation psychologic climate, IBA Group offers a package of social and financial • Financial assistance benefits. The amount of benefits an employee can receive depends on his or her qualification level. The benefit package has been continuously • Improvement of living conditions expanding. • Sports and tourism In addition, IBA takes care of its former employees who retired. They are • Festive events and gifts able to participate in weekend tours or use free memberships for • Children programs. swimming pools and saunas. To devise a social strategy and make timely decisions on employees’ The social package is built on the following fundamental principles. proposals, IBA created a Council for Social Policy. Representatives of • Mutual development: IBA employees contribute to the company’s company management and divisions are members of the Council. The development and the company takes care of the employees’ wellCouncil’s activities are governed by the Regulation on the Council for Social being and social security Policy. • Shared responsibility. Both employees and the company contribute to In addition to salaries, bonuses, and training at leading IT educational financing social campaigns • Accessibility. The list of social events granted to an employee does not centers, IBA Group employees who achieve outstanding results are depend on the employee’s work results awarded at special company events. • Transparency and openness. All employees can make proposals on the expansion of the benefit package. Information about the benefit package is published on the IBA information resources The IBA-developed application SOCIAL PACKAGE enables employees to reduce the time spent on program selection and on filing an application. The company analyzes the accumulated data to assess events’ results and improve the benefit package. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Environmental Protection | Employee Support | IT Education | Charity and Sponsorship IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Making Responsible Decisions Medical Care Dwelling Program IBA employees can receive medical services and medicines in the IBA Group provides interest-free loans to its employees who commission company’s medical rooms. Roughly, the IBA first-aid rooms receive 4,217 or buy flats or houses. The procedure and the loan size are stipulated in visits per year. the Provision on Loans to IBA Group Employees. IBA employees can also receive medical services at the company The distribution of rented flats is regulated by the Provision on Waiting expense based on contracts with healthcare organizations. IBA List and Distribution of Rented Flats (51 flats are rented). employees can conclude medical insurance contracts as a part of insurance agreements between IBA and insurance organizations. Financial Assistance In 2018, 743 employees and 184 employee relatives entered into In addition to the social allowances granted by national and local laws, medical insurance contracts. The insurance terms and procedures, as IBA Group provides to its employees financial assistance. well as the list of authorized insurance companies are published on the company portal. • In the event of first marriage or childbirth In 2018, a fluorography examination was organized (287 employees) and • On parental leave up to three years a campaign entitled Oxygen Cocktails to the Office. Roughly, 300 • For recreation of children employees per year receive therapeutic massage at the company • To employees who have children with disabilities premises. • As seasonal allowances IBA Group organizes recreation of its employees and their family members. The procedure for provision of vouchers for rehabilitation, • To war veterans and Chernobyl disaster fighters sanatorium, and resort treatment to IBA Group employees and their • In the event of retirement children, as well as for rehabilitation of children in recreational and • In the event of death of a close relative of an employee, of an sports camps is stipulated in the IBA Regulations on the Procedure for employee or of a retired employee. Provision of Sanatorium and Resort Treatment and Rehabilitation to Employees and their Children. In 2018, more than 100 children received vouchers for sanatoria and children camps. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Environmental Protection | Employee Support | IT Education | Charity and Sponsorship IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Making Responsible Decisions Sports and Tourism The company fosters a healthy way of life. IBA Group has its own fitness center located in the company’s campus in Minsk. IBA Group employees can practice in the gym or in fitness groups (aerobics, Pilates, yoga, and other) with professional trainers, or play tennis, football, volleyball, or basketball, or dance. In addition, IBA Group employees who work in different countries enjoy discounted or free recreation or fitness center memberships. IBA employees participate in internal, local, and national competitions in different sports, including mountain skiing, snowboarding, table tennis, basketball, volleyball, billiards, mini golf, online poker, swimming, mini soccer, clay target shooting, arching, tennis, karting, darts, kicker, and bowling. First, second, and third place winners are awarded medals, certificates, and gifts. IBA Group organizes tours and retreats. Every year, the company holds a tourist rally. CASE STUDY 2018 Tourist Rally From June 22 to June 24, IBA Group conducted a tourist rally in the Minsk Region. More than 1,600 participants were able to try themselves at bungee jumping, a rope obstacle course, rock climbing walls, and weight lifting. They could also take a ride at an armored surveillance vehicle, relax in a sauna, compete in a water rowing or kayak relay, participate in an intellectual quest, and play badminton or darts. Soccer fans could play a funny bumper-ball. A special program was prepared for children. They could dance or play with animators, draw or paint themselves with a colorful aqua makeup, ride catamarans or canoe or play in an inflatable bounce castle. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Environmental Protection | Employee Support | IT Education | Charity and Sponsorship IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Making Responsible Decisions Children Program Each September, IBA Group organizes festive events for children of IBA employees to mark Knowledge Day and give presents to first graders. For each New Year, IBA Group organizes the following events. • Attendance of circus performances by IBA families (1,848 tickets in 2018) • Kids fest on the children’s railway on the New Year Express • New Year gifts (nearly 1,000 in 2018). Small children attend pre-school educational courses at the Early Development School Svetoch and at the center for additional education of children and youth (12 kids per month). Schoolchildren attend ITLandia, courses on robotics (22 kids), and courses at the children’s development center Perspective (32 kids). Holidays and Gifts For long-term conscientious work and a great personal contribution to the company’s development, in case of retirement, and on International Women’s Day, employees receive gifts or the company organizes special events for them. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Environmental Protection | Employee Support | IT Education | Charity and Sponsorship IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Making Responsible Decisions Labor and Health Protection IBA Group applies a systematic approach to labor and health protection. The company fully observes national laws on labor protection and industry security, and complies with relevant international standards. IBA Group employees receive emails on how to prevent accidents and how to act, if an accident occurs. To increase occupational safety and prevent injuries, IBA Group performs the following actions. • Purchase of medical kits • Purchase of detergents and personal care products • Laboratory and instrumental examination of harmful environmental factors at workplaces • Blocking of leakage of tobacco smoke from smoking rooms • Monitoring of load bearing structures of office buildings. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Environmental Protection | Employee Support | IT Education | Charity and Sponsorship IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Making Responsible Decisions IT Education The IBA Group’s university support programs include the following. • Training courses for students and teachers • Technical and financial assistance to universities • Joint R&D labs. At a meeting with Belarus’ HTP resident companies, universities agreed that IT companies may be involved in the development of curricula, if needed. IBA Group advises university teachers in production and managerial accounting using SAP ERP. IBA Group employees meet with university students. In May 2018, leading IBA Group specialists met with the BSU student team that was a winner in the Belarusian national IT championship IT Planet 2017 / 2018. IBA Group provided financial support for the following events in 2018. • Visit to a Train-the-Trainer winter session at the Otto von IBA Group partners with the Belarusian State University Guericke University Magdeburg (BSU) and the Belarusian State University of Informatics • Participation in the 23rd SAP EMEA Academic Conference within and Radioelectronics (BSUIR) in Minsk, with the Gomel the joint project SAP Next-Gen Lab (Munich, Germany). State University and the Gomel State Technical University In August 2018, employees of the IBA SAP department met with in Gomel, with the Masaryk University in the Czech students and post-graduates who participated in BSU Hackathon Republic, and the Burgas Free University in Bulgaria. 2018 and finals of IT Planet 2017 / 2018. The parties discussed IBA’s SAP projects and career development at IBA Group. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Environmental Protection | Employee Support | IT Education | Charity and Sponsorship IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Making Responsible Decisions Student Training To transfer knowledge and skills to the young generation and to enable young people to start a career at a large-scale IT company, IBA Group organizes special courses for university students of both IT and non-IT faculties. In 2018, students of BSU, BSUIR, the Belarusian State Technical University (BSTU), the BSUIR Institute of Information Technologies (BSUIR IIT), and the Belarusian National Technical University (BNTU) attended the courses. The teachers were IBA experts, including software developers, testing engineers, business analysts, and team leaders. As students show special interest in the courses that provide practical training, IBA combines theoretical disciplines with practical tasks, where students work on real IBA projects and use IBA technical resources. The IBA Data Center and joint IBA – university labs are also Heads of IBA linear departments compile and instrumental in the provision of practical training. update course curricula, meeting market requirements and technology trends. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Environmental Protection | Employee Support | IT Education | Charity and Sponsorship IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Making Responsible Decisions IBA Group Courses IBA Group Courses for University Students Duration IBA Group conducts free courses for university students. More than 30 IBA Group Course Name (academic hours) employees are involved as part-time teachers. Course graduates can start their career at IBA Group. In 2018, more than 230 students completed courses and System Programming 141 more than 400 had internships at IBA Group. Software Testing 120 Multiplatform Programming 140 Based on course results, IBA Group employed more than Multiplatform Programming 160 100 students and graduates. In aggregate, IBA Group Multiplatform Programming 140 employed more than 170 university graduates in 2018, Fundamentals of business analytics using IBM 120 Cognos and SAP BO primarily from partner universities. Data management technologies (Big Data, ETL, and BI) 160 Design and development of DWH, Big Data, In 2018, IBA Group opened a new computer class equipped with 23 workstations for and Cloud analytical systems 120 training of university students. As these IBA premises are located in Minsk downtown, Multiplatform Programming 176 they were popular among students of different universities. IBA Group conducted five Java & Web Development 80 courses with 46 students of four universities in attendance, namely BSU, BSUIR, BSTU, and the Academy of Public Administration. SAP Technologies for Digital Transformation 100 At the request of universities, IBA Group organizes tours of its campus in Belarus’ High Total 1,457 Tech Park and other offices. IBA Group supports student traditions. For the students who work in Belarusian In 2018, students of BSU, BSUIR, and BSUIR software development centers, the company organizes annual events devoted to IIT visited the IBA Group’s campus in Student Day. Belarus’ High Tech Park. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Environmental Protection | Employee Support | IT Education | Charity and Sponsorship IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Making Responsible Decisions University Support • IBA Group was the key partner of the international conference in web technologies WebConf2018 held from May 14 to May 18, 2018 in Belarus • IBA Group provided financial support to BSUIR student teams that participated in the semi-finals of the North Eurasia region at ACM • IBA Group participated in the organization of the Hackathon BSU-2018 ICPC 2018-2019 Mind Games 2. Digital Universe (March 23-25). IBA experts conducted master classes, worked as jury members, and advised and supported the • IBA Group contributed to the organization of the student competing teams. IBA Group contributed to the organization of a championship BIT-Cup 2018 Hackathon at the Gomel State University (May, 2018) • IBA provided assistance in moving the IBA BSU lab to the new • IBA Group organized a certification course entitled Fundamentals of Integration and Optimization of Business Processes Using SAP ERP premises (TERP10) for post-graduates of BSU and international universities at the • Nerdské večery. IBA Group organized Geek Parties in cooperation IBA premises and using IBA technical facilities with Czech universities. Four events were held in 2018 with 60 • IBA Group provided financial support to the eighth BSUIR Open attendees in aggregate. Championship in sports programming. As a feedback, IBA received a letter from the First Deputy Minister of Education of Belarus Vadim Bogush and • IBA Group conducted workshops on Blockchain, Machine from the BSUIR Chancellor Mikhail Batura, who expressed their Learning, Web Programming, and System Administration in appreciation of the IBA Group’s contribution to the education of young Gomel, the second largest city of Belarus. people in Belarus Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Environmental Protection | Employee Support | IT Education | Charity and Sponsorship IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Making Responsible Decisions Charity and Sponsorship Guided by the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Program adopted in 2008, IBA Group supports educational institutions, museums, and other nongovernmental organizations. In 2018, the company provided financial support to the following organizations. Belarusian Association of Veterans for Minsk State Palace of Children and celebrations, concerts, visits to museums Youth (4 computers, 4 monitors, a and theaters, reception of foreign notebook, and a printer) delegations, and other events Department of Education, Sports, and Belarusian national championship in Tourism of the Orsha Rayon Executive computer science in the Grodno State Committee (23 computers, 3 College of Engineering, Technologies, and notebooks, 5 printers, 18 desks, 3 Design armchairs, and 6 cabinets). Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Environmental Protection | Employee Support | IT Education | Charity and Sponsorship IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Making Responsible Decisions Mechanical and Mathematical Faculty of BSU for Faculty of Computer Systems and Networks of purchase of computers, network and computer BSUIR to upgrade equipment and devices at the devices, printers, scanners, overhead video Academic Competence Center of IBM projectors, office equipment, furniture, air Technologies conditioners, manuals, and training aids. Faculty of Computer Systems and Networks of BSUIR to organize the eighth international open championship in sports programming Faculty of Computer Systems and Networks of Faculty of Applied Mathematics and Informatics BSUIR to cover travel expenses to the semi-finals of BSU to cover travel expenses for the team’s trip of the North Eurasian region in ACM ICPC 2018to the finals of the IT contest IT Planet 2017 / 2019 and to organize the IT championship BIT 2018 (June 1-4, 2018) in the Tyumen Industrial Cup 2018. University, Russia. Minsk Nursery & Kindergarten #383 to purchase furniture and equipment. Faculty of Applied Mathematics and Informatics of BSU to cover travel expenses of a BSU teacher for the 23rd SAP EMEA academic conference (Europe, the Middle East, and Africa) from September 9 to September 15 in the Competence Center of the Technical University of Munich, Germany Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Environmental Protection | Employee Support | IT Education | Charity and Sponsorship IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Making Responsible Decisions Projects for People with Disabilities CASE STUDY Personal and Professional Empowerment of Disabled People IBA Institute conducted a series of inclusive trainings for people with disabilities. The latest project entitled Personal and Professional Empowerment of Disabled People in Belarus continued the initiative of IBA Group to integrate people with disabilities in labor market through education and empowerment. The project included the following free courses. 1) Development of soft skills for successful career building 2) Fundamentals of entrepreneurship. How to turn a hobby into a profession? The project results included the following. • 185 people with disabilities were trained • 80 percent prepared CVs for prospective employers • 14 found jobs. The project was selected a winner of the GSA Awards 2018 by the Global Sourcing Association and the Business Process Enabling South Africa (BPESA) in the category Excellence in Corporate Social Responsibility. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Environmental Protection | Employee Support | IT Education | Charity and Sponsorship IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Making Responsible Decisions Projects for People with Disabilities CASE STUDY Auto Volunteers Application for Belarusian Hospice IBA Group developed the Auto Volunteers application on Android for the Belarusian Children’s Hospice within the Engineering Charity Marathon Hospice Project Auto Volunteers. The Hospice uses the application to organize transportation of children with disabilities. The mobile application is similar to Uber but has no fare collection function. IBA employees developed Auto Volunteers within a charity marathon. To date, more than 1,500 users downloaded the application. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Environmental Protection | Employee Support | IT Education | Charity and Sponsorship IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Appendices Appendix 1. About this Report The Report complies with the following standards. • Global Reporting Initiative (GRI SRS, Core) The IBA Group 2018 Sustainability Report (Report) contains information about the company’s results for 2018 and plans for further development. In • 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) addition, the Report shows innovative approaches and practices the company applies in its operations. • Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact This document serves as an instrument for the company’s communication • International standards for stakeholder engagement with a wide range of stakeholders, including employees, customers, partners, government authorities, communities, and mass media. The • АА1000 by the Institute of Social and Ethical Accountability. Report provides integral and comprehensive information about the IBA IBA Group seeks to integrate the UN SDGs in the company’s strategy. Group’s activities related to sustainable development. CSR and sustainability reporting gives a number of benefits to IBA Group. Report Structure The Report provides information about the IBA Group’s approaches to • Identify the stance of stakeholders to IBA activities governance, and operations and plans in economic, environmental, and CSR • Confirm that the company takes into account the perceptions of areas. The Report includes an overview of the company’s activities in the stakeholders and builds trust in the company following areas. • Foster improvement of internal and external processes • Corporate governance • Build and maintain a sustainable reputation • Business ethics • Increase competitiveness. • Stakeholder engagement • HR management • Environmental protection. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices About This Report | Awards and Recognition | Terms and Abbreviations | GRI Standards Content Index | Feedback Form | Contact Information IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Appendices Boundaries When preparing the document, IBA updated the list of essential aspects and a number of aspects that are not essential for the stakeholders were not The Report contains a number of forecasts and predictions with regard to disclosed in detail. We also look forward to receiving proposals on how to the company’s future, plans, and expected results. These statements improve the Report. To this end, we attached a feedback form. reflect the IBA Group’s expectations and intentions. However, they are associated with inherent risks and uncertainty, as their further Principles for Defining Report Quality implementation depends on a large number of various factors, many of The Report quality is guaranteed through the use of the following GRI which are beyond the company's control, including global economic and principles. political conditions, and changes in tax, environmental or other laws. Therefore, the actual results may differ directly or indirectly from those • Balance stated in the Report. • Comparability Reporting Principles • Accuracy Principles for Defining Report Content • Clarity The Report was prepared in accordance with the Core option of the GRI • Reliability Sustainability Reporting Standards. Appendix 4 provides a GRI content • Timeliness. index. Essential Aspects Internal Procedures for Defining Report Quality and Reliability IBA Group identified the aspects that are most essential for the company IBA Group is in the process of building a corporate reporting system. and its stakeholders, and can influence the decisions about the Company divisions responsible for provision of information about each of company’s future. We aimed to make the Report useful and concise. the priority areas of sustainable development examined the quality and reliability of the texts and numbers. Therefore, the information disclosed in the Report is accurate. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices About This Report | Awards and Recognition | Terms and Abbreviations | GRI Standards Content Index | Feedback Form | Contact Information IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Appendices Appendix 2. Key Awards and Achievements of IBA Group in 2018 In 2018, IBA Group for the sixth consecutive Software Magazine included IBA Group in the 2018 year was included in the Leaders category of Software 500 ranking of the world’s largest The Global Outsourcing 100 (For more software and service providers. IBA Group was information, see Section 2. Developing a ranked #315, with a total software and services Sustainable Business. Sustainability revenue of US$107.86 million and showing a 7.2 Management). percent growth from the previous year. Two IBA Group’s projects were qualified for the IBA Group was selected a winner of 2018 GSA finals of SAP Coder 2018. The first was about facial Awards organized by the Global Sourcing recognition to tailor clients’ servicing in a retail Association in the category Excellence in store and the second about classification of assets Corporate Social Responsibility. It was the in accounting using Machine Learning. second IBA Group’s GSA award in the CSR category. IBA IT Park, the largest software development IBA Group was selected a winner of European IT center of IBA Group, was selected a winner of the & Software Excellence Awards 2018 in the Belarusian Government’s Quality Award. IBA category Software Innovation Solution of the became a winner for the sixth time (earlier in 2015, Year for RPA (Robotic Process Automation) 2010, 2005, 2002, and 1999) and received a special projects. It was the sixth IBA Group’s award in award for Management Excellence. this contest organized by IT Europa since the contest’s inception. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices About This Report | Awards and Recognition | Terms and Abbreviations | GRI Standards Content Index | Feedback Form | Contact Information IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Appendices Appendix 3. Terms and Abbreviations АА1000 is a standard for assessing and strengthening the credibility and CMMI (Capability Maturity Model Integration) is a process level quality of an organization’s social, economic, and environmental improvement training and appraisal program. Administered by the CMMI reporting. It is primarily intended for use by external auditing bodies that Institute, a subsidiary of ISACA, it was developed at Carnegie Mellon assure organization’s reports or social accounts (Assurance Providers) but University (CMU). can also be used to guide any organization when building its (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Capability_Maturity_Model_Integration) accountability processes, systems and abilities. Unlike other similar standards, AA1000 seeks to instill a culture of continuous development Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), also called corporate sustainability, through stakeholder responsiveness. sustainable business, corporate conscience, corporate citizenship, conscious B2B (business-to-business) is a situation where one business makes a capitalism, or responsible business) is a type of international private commercial transaction with another. business self-regulation (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Business-to-business) (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Corporate_social_responsibility) Big Data is a field that treats ways to analyze, systematically extract G2B (government-to-business) is a suite of software and hardware tools for information from, or otherwise deal with data sets that are too large or online communication of government bodies and businesses designed to complex to be dealt with by traditional data processing application support and develop business, including websites of government authorities software. (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Big_data) and e-procurement portals. Cloud technologies or cloud computing is a general term for anything that involves delivering hosted services over the internet. These services G2C (government-to-citizen or government-to-consumer) is a situation are broadly divided into three categories: Infrastructure-as-a-Service when a government agency communicates with the general public (IaaS), Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS) and Software-as-a-Service (SaaS). The (https://acronyms.thefreedictionary.com/G2C) name cloud computing was inspired by the cloud symbol that's often used to represent the internet in flowcharts and diagrams (https://searchcloudcomputing.techtarget.com/definition/cloudcomputing) Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices About This Report | Awards and Recognition | Terms and Abbreviations | GRI Standards Content Index | Feedback Form | Contact Information IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Appendices High Tech Park (HTP) is a tax and legal regime in Belarus, contributing to Robotic Process Automation (RPA) is a business process automation the favorable development of IT business. It is a Belarusian analog of technology based on the notion of metaphorical software robots or artificial Silicon Valley in the US. The companies registered in HTP can enjoy tax intelligence (AI) workers benefits, regardless of the location of their Belarusian office. (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robotic_process_automation) Internet of Things (IoT) is the extension of internet connectivity into Sustainable development is the organizing principle for meeting human physical devices and everyday objects. Embedded with electronics, development goals while simultaneously sustaining the ability of natural internet connectivity, and other forms of hardware (such as sensors), systems to provide the natural resources and ecosystem services upon which these devices can communicate and interact with others over the the economy and society depend. The desired result is a state of society internet, and they can be remotely monitored and controlled. where living conditions and resources are used to continue to meet human (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_of_things) needs without undermining the integrity and stability of the natural system. ISO 9001 is the international standard for a quality management system (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sustainable_development) (QMS). The standard is used by organizations to demonstrate their ability Sustainable development goals (SDGs) are a collection of 17 global goals set to consistently provide products and services that meet customer and by the United Nations General Assembly in 2015 for the year 2030. The SDGs regulatory requirements and to demonstrate continuous improvement are part of Resolution 70/1 of the United Nations General Assembly, the (https://the9000store.com/what-are-iso-9000-standards/what-is-iso2030 Agenda. 9001/) (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sustainable_Development_Goals) Outsourcing is an agreement in which one company hires another The UN Global Compact is the world's largest corporate sustainability (a.k.a. company to be responsible for a planned or existing activity that is or corporate social responsibility) initiative with 13,000 corporate participants could be done internally and sometimes involves transferring employees and other stakeholders over 170 countries with two objectives: Mainstream and assets from one firm to another. the ten principles in business activities around the world and Catalyze (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Outsourcing) actions in support of broader UN goals, such as the Millennium PDCA (plan–do–check–act or plan–do–check–adjust) is an iterative fourDevelopment Goals and Sustainable Development Goals step management method used in business for the control and (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_Nations_Global_Compact) continuous improvement of processes and products. Tons of coal equivalent (TCE) is a unit of fuel, equal in its energy value to a (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PDCA). ton of coal. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices About This Report | Awards and Recognition | Terms and Abbreviations | GRI Standards Content Index | Feedback Form | Contact Information IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Appendices Appendix 4. GRI Standards Content Index GRI Indicators Business Theme Report Section SDG GRI 102: General Disclosures Organizational Profile GRI 102-1 Name of the organization Managing the Organization GRI 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and Managing the Organization services GRI 102-3 Location of headquarters Managing the Organization GRI 102-4 Location of operations Managing the Organization GRI 102-5 Ownership and legal form Managing the Organization. Appendices GRI 102-6 Markets served Managing the Organization GRI 102-7 Scale of the organization Managing the Organization GRI 102-10 Significant changes to the No significant changes organization and its supply chain GRI 102-12 External initiatives Developing Sustainable Business GRI 102-13 Membership of associations Developing Sustainable Business Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices About This Report | Awards and Recognition | Terms and Abbreviations | GRI Standards Content Index | Feedback Form | Contact Information IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Appendices GRI Indicators Business Theme Report Section SDG GRI 102: General Disclosures Strategy GRI 102-14 Statement from senior decisionMessage from the IBA Group Chairman maker Ethics and Conscientiousness GRI 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and Managing the Organization 16. Peace, Justice, and Strong Institutions norms of behavior Corporate Governance GRI 102-18 Governance structure Managing the Organization GRI 102-22 Composition of the highest Managing the Organization 5. Gender Equality governance body and its committees 16. Peace, Justice, and Strong Institutions Stakeholder Engagement GRI 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Developing Sustainable Business. Appendices GRI 102-43 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Developing Sustainable Business Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices About This Report | Awards and Recognition | Terms and Abbreviations | GRI Standards Content Index | Feedback Form | Contact Information IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Appendices GRI Indicators Business Theme Report Section SDG GRI 102: General Disclosures Reporting Procedure GRI 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated Managing the Organization. Appendices financial statements GRI 102-46 Defining report content and topic Appendices boundaries GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle Appendices GRI 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding Appendices the report GRI 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance Appendices with the GRI Standards GRI 102-55 GRI content index Appendices GRI 302: Energy GRI 103-1 External assurance Making Responsible Decisions GRI 103-2 Management Approach Making Responsible Decisions Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices About This Report | Awards and Recognition | Terms and Abbreviations | GRI Standards Content Index | Feedback Form | Contact Information IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Appendices GRI Indicators Business Theme Report Section SDG GRI 302: Energy GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the Making Responsible Decisions 12. Responsible Production and organization Consumption GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Making Responsible Decisions 8. Decent Work and Economic Growth 12. Responsible Production and Consumption GRI 307: Environmental Compliance GRI 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental No monetary fines or non-monetary 16. Peace, Justice, and Strong laws and regulations sanctions imposed on the company Institutions GRI 400: Social GRI 401: Employment GRI 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time Making Responsible Decisions 8. Decent Work and Economic Growth employees and not provided to temporary or part-time employees GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety GRI 403-6 Promotion of worker health Making Responsible Decisions 3. Good Health and Well-Being 8. Decent Work and Economic Growth Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices About This Report | Awards and Recognition | Terms and Abbreviations | GRI Standards Content Index | Feedback Form | Contact Information IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Appendices GRI Indicators Business Theme Report Section SDG GRI 400: Social GRI 404: Training and Education GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and Making Responsible Decisions its Boundary GRI 103-2 The management approach and its Making Responsible Decisions components GRI 404-1 Average hours of training per year per Making Responsible Decisions 4. Quality Education employee 5. Gender Equality 8. Decent Work and Economic Growth GRI 404-2 5 Programs for upgrading employee Making Responsible Decisions 8. Decent Work and Economic Growth skills and transition assistance programs GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and Making Responsible Decisions 5. Gender Equality employees 8. Decent Work and Economic Growth Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices About This Report | Awards and Recognition | Terms and Abbreviations | GRI Standards Content Index | Feedback Form | Contact Information IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Appendices GRI Indicators Business Theme Report Section SDG GRI 400: Social GRI 406: Non-Discrimination GRI 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and No cases of discrimination 5. Gender Equality corrective actions taken 8. Decent Work and Economic Growth 16. Peace, Justice, and Strong Institutions GRI 408: Child Labor GRI 408-1 Operations and suppliers at No cases. Prohibited by law 8. Decent Work and Economic Growth significant risk for incidents of child 16. Peace, Justice, and Strong labor Institutions Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices About This Report | Awards and Recognition | Terms and Abbreviations | GRI Standards Content Index | Feedback Form | Contact Information IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Appendices GRI Indicators Business Theme Report Section SDG GRI 400: Social GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor GRI 409-1 Operations and suppliers at No cases. Prohibited by law 8. Decent Work and Economic Growth significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor GRI 411: Rights of Indigenous Peoples GRI 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights N/A of indigenous peoples Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices About This Report | Awards and Recognition | Terms and Abbreviations | GRI Standards Content Index | Feedback Form | Contact Information IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Appendices GRI Indicators Business Theme Report Section SDG GRI 400: Social GRI 412: Human Rights GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and Managing the Organization its Boundary GRI 103-2 The management approach and its Managing the Organization components GRI 413: Local Communities GRI 103-2 The management approach and its Making Responsible Decisions components Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices About This Report | Awards and Recognition | Terms and Abbreviations | GRI Standards Content Index | Feedback Form | Contact Information IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Appendices Appendix 5. Feedback Form Dear reader, You have just read the IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report. We strive for the most transparent and honest dialogue with all interested parties and will be grateful, if you can help improve the quality of company reporting by answering a few simple questions. You can access our feedback form by clicking the button below. Thank you! Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices About This Report | Awards and Recognition | Terms and Abbreviations | GRI Standards Content Index | Feedback Form | Contact Information IBA Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2019 IBA Group Appendices Appendix 6. Contact IBA Group a.s., 2583/13 Petržílkova St., Prague 5, 158 00, Czech Republic Tel.: +420 251 116 206 Fax: +420 251 116 211 Email: info@ibagroupit.com www.ibagroupit.com Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices About This Report | Awards and Recognition | Terms and Abbreviations | GRI Standards Content Index | Feedback Form | Contact Information
