CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 (Italian Legislative Decree No. 254 of 30 December 2016) 1 2 TABLE OF CONTENTS The Italgas Group 9 Business profile and activities 9 Corporate structure 12 Organisation of activities 14 Methodological note 16 Sustainability in Italgas: value and strategy 19 Italgas stock in sustainability indices 22 Material aspects: identification of the topics CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // TABLE OF CONTENTS important for Italgas 25 Governance and management of activities 29 Responsible business management within Italgas 33 The Code of Ethics 33 The 231 Organisation, Management and Control Model 33 Internal control and risk management system 37 Security of the information and data (cyber security) 41 Prevention of active and passive corruption 43 People and organisation 47 Employment and the protection of workers’ rights 50 Development and enhancement of human capital 56 Diversity and Welfare 62 Industrial relations 65 Social aspects of the business 69 Reliability, quality and safety of the service 71 Innovation and digitisation 73 Transparent relations and partnership with sales companies 76 Social innovation and relationship with the regions concerned 78 Environmental and health issues and work safety 83 Energy efficiency and emissions 87 Waste production and disposal 91 Accident prevention 94 Italgas and responsible supply chain management 99 GRI content index 105 3 4 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // LETTER TO STAKEHOLDER LETTER TO THE STAKEHOLDERS In our era, the main long-term risk is represented by the deterioration in the plant’s environmental conditions. In fact, for the third CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // LETTER TO STAKEHOLDER consecutive year the 2019 Global Risk Report, drawn up by the World Economic Forum, places the environmental topics, and in particular the climate changes, along the five most significant risks at global level. Businesses and institutions are therefore required on a daily basis to the development of sustainable mobility formulate tangible proposals for furthering and balancing the interruptible nature of the and supporting the energy transition, towards renewables ensuring greater environmental a more sustainable future. protection. The first step in this direction was made by With its know-how developed over almost two means of the Paris climate agreements which centuries of activities, Italgas has achieved an led to a clean break from the past introducing a infrastructure of excellence in the majority of the global and shared vision in the handling of the country and, as a leading company in the sector, it policies for combatting climate change. A new was a primary player in the methane conversion framework of ideas which contributed to a greater process in Italy. To this today, by means awareness of the need for mutual and collective of its daily activities, it continues to accompany action which involves institutions at every level, the economic and social development of the civil society and private parties transversally. communities in which it operates, actively contributing to the creation of increasingly Within this scenario, the entire energy sustainable towns and cities by means of the sector is required to provide impetus to the constant improvement of the services. transition towards a more efficient, safe and sustainable system. Natural gas, in this sense, This is the heart of the Italgas strategy and covers a key role for the development of its Sustainability Plan, which accepts the a new energy system, in that it is a safe, flexible challenges of the Sustainable Development supply which can be planned, capable of Goals (SDGs) furthered by the United serving the production of electricity, supporting Nations in the 2030 Global Agenda, and sets them out in five strategic pillars with the aim of strengthening its sustainability culture, placing the individuals at the core, making itself recognised by the area, creating value for the customer and the gas market and contributing towards the efficiency and safety of the energy system. 5 PEOPLE AT THE CORE In 2018, the Italgas Group employed 120 individuals, more than 65% of which under the age of 30 and women in over 20% of the cases. At year end, total employees came to more than 4,000 individuals. We wish to continue to create stable and quality employment, with specific managerial and technical expertise investing in the creation of our employees: over the last year around 68 thousand hours of training were provided, with an average of 19 hours per employee, and we have continued to invest in programmes aimed at increasing the VICINITY TO THE COMMUNITY satisfaction of the individuals. Furthermore, we CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // LETTER TO STAKEHOLDER are increasingly involved in the promotion of Italgas’s commitment with regard to the a flexible work model by means of the use of community does not only materialise by organisational systems and digital instruments means of the on-going improvement of which, as from 2017, have permitted more than the network and services, but also involves 350 individuals to carry out part of their work the contribution made to growth as well as activities in smart working mode. to social and cultural development of the community in which we operate, with respect to which we encourage and fuel on-going and direct dialogue. Furthermore, we collaborate with bodies, associations and foundations, no-profit organisations and other parties in the area to give rise to projects and ventures in favour of the protection of the environment, the divulgation of culture, technological and scientific innovation, research and training. In 2018, 764 thousand euros were invested in sponsorships and charitable donations and the delivery of 1,500 computers commenced, donated to the schools in the Municipal areas affected by the earthquake in the regions of Abruzzo, Lazio, Marche and Umbria. 41% went to employees, more than IN 2018, 605 MILLION EUROS 31% to the shareholders, 20% to the WERE DISTRIBUTED TO THE Public Administration Authorities and 8% to lenders STAKEHOLDERS 6 VALUE FOR THE MARKET AND THE CUSTOMER In 2018, 605 million euros were distributed to the stakeholders. Specifically, 41% went to employees (248 million euros), more than 31% to the shareholders (189 million euros), 20% to the Public Administration Authorities (121 million euros) and 8% to lenders (47 million euros). Furthermore, a significant portion of the investments in the 2016 2018 three-year period (500 million euros) was dedicated to innovation and digitisation of the network. in terms of lessening the carbon footprint These investments were allocated to the of the activities, over the last year we gave development and improvement of the service a sharp boost to the project for conversion of CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // LETTER TO STAKEHOLDER and technological innovation, in particular the entire company vehicle fleet to methane. with the continuation of the programmes for installation of the smart meters and digitisation Amongst the other goals achieved, the portion of the network and the processes, partly thanks of gas in the energy mix used by the company to our digital factory. was raised to 80% and the carbon footprint produced was reduced by 5%. ENERGY EFFICIENCY On a consistent basis with these activities, in AND ENVIRONMENT conclusion, Italgas also equipped itself with new discussion and inspiration instruments, Over the last year we have invested in energy starting off with compliance with the Global efficiency projects which, partly thanks to the Compact of the United Nations, the largest acquisition of Seaside, one of the largest Italian voluntary initiative at global level with regard to Energy Service Companies, made it possible sustainability aspects. Furthermore, inclusion to implement technologically advanced in various important global stock market solutions for the increasingly more efficient indexes which assess the social responsibility management of infrastructures, processes of the companies, was confirmed for Italgas and services. With regard to the commitment stock. At the end of 2018, the company furthered on a voluntary basis and obtained UNI ISO 37001 certification with regard to anti-corruption. A long process of corporate social responsibility which Italgas, together with its individuals, has undertaken with great determination ready to multiply the efforts and the goals to be achieved. The challenges are many, and we have all the energy required. Chief Executive Officer Paolo Gallo 7 8 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // THE ITALGAS GROUP THE ITALGAS GROUP 1 BUSINESS PROFILE AND ACTIVITIES Italgas was founded more than 180 years ago and is Italy’s main natural gas distributor and the third largest operator in Europe. Founded in 1837 in Turin, under the name of Compagnia CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // THE ITALGAS GROUP di Illuminazione a Gaz per la Città di Torino, over the years it has changed name several times, first of all becoming Società Italiana per il Gas and in conclusion, at the time of listing in November 2016, Italgas S.p.A. With a historic presence in the largest Italian cities including Turin, Florence2, Rome, Naples and Venice, over the last two years the Company launched an important plan of investments intended to consolidate certain areas, in particular in the regions of Southern Italy, and to promote growth which led the company to make its entrance in Sardinia, a region which to-date does not have natural gas distribution infrastructures. Italgas is leader in Italy in the sector of natural gas distribution and the third largest operator in Europe. In detail, Italgas and its affiliated companies with more than 4,000 individuals, manages a network which extends in total for almost 70,000 kilometres and serves more than 7.5 million customers. The current market share exceeds 34%3. A significant portion of the investments in the three-year period 2016 2018 (500 million euros) was dedicated to innovation and digitisation of the network: today there are almost 5 million smart meters installed (59.1% of our basin) and in 2018 alone we installed 1.8 million (including the investee companies), with the objective of completing the replacement of all the traditional meters within the first few months of 2020 (compared with the 85% as at 31 December 2020 fixed by ARERA). 1_The qualitative and quantitative data and information contained in this section (“The Italgas group”) refers to the scope of reporting of the 2018 Annual Financial Report, for the purpose of offering a complete view of the Group. In the following chapters and sections, the scope includes the companies consolidated line-by-line as envisaged by Italian Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 and in line with the matters described in the Methodological Note. 2_Via the investee Toscana Energia. 3_Considering the investee companies. 4_Considering the investee companies and the smart meter substitution plan of the Group. 9 Replacement Network monitoring of traditional and modernisation gas meters Gas odourisation Remote meter reading Works to meet end customer requirements Rapid response and the problem of arrears CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // THE ITALGAS GROUP Scheduled search Interruption of the for leaks gas supply Gas distribution activities, carried out within the wider national system, consist of transporting gas on behalf of sales companies authorised to market it to end customers. The service includes transport through local pipeline networks from the city-gates (reduction and measurement cabins interconnected with the transmission networks), to end customers and measurement activities, which include the collection, processing, validation and making available of consumption data in order to regulate commercial transactions between operators and users. The Italian Regulatory Authority for Energy, Networks and Environment (ARERA) regulates the entire sector, determining the methods of access to infrastructures and the performance of the service and the related fees for the payment of activities performed5. Italgas is engaged in continuous and constructive dialogue with ARERA to help define a clear, transparent and stable regulatory framework to encourage the sustainable development of the gas system. The Group, in its entirety, employs more than 4,000 people, located in local offices distributed throughout Italy. In the performance of its activities, it uses its own operating companies and a supply chain that also extends nationwide. Italgas is today facing an important phase and a new chapter in its long history. In the 20182024 strategic plan, the Company has envisaged an important plan of investments targeted at growth and consolidation, digitisation of the network and the processes, development and improvement of the network. 5_For further information on the regulatory aspects, please refer to the chapter “Regulation” in the 2018 Annual Financial Report 10 ITALGAS GROUP: REGIONAL PRESENCE AND MAIN OPERATING DATA DISTRIBUTED GAS As at 31 December 2018 Italgas distributed 7,873 million cubic metres of gas (7,767 million cubic metres of gas in 2017), through 323 sales companies (284 in 2017). Also considering the investee companies, the gas distributed in 2018 came to 9,098 million cubic metres of gas. DISTRIBUTION NETWORK As at 31 December 2018, the gas distribution network covered 61,361 kilometres (57,773 kilometres as at 31 December 2017), with an increase of 3,588 kilometres since 31 December 2017. Also considering the investee companies, the distribution network covers 69,782 kilometres. CONCESSIONS CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // THE ITALGAS GROUP As at 31 December 2018 Italgas was the concession holder for the gas distribution service in 1,700 municipalities (1,500 as at 31 December 2017), of which 1,614 were in operation (1,484 as at 31 December 2017). METERS As at 31 December 2018, there were 6.708 million meters (6.586 million at 31 December 2017) in use at redelivery points (“PdR”). Also considering the investee companies, the active meters numbered 7.562 million. THE INVESTEE COMPANIES: THE MAIN NUMBERS FOR 2018 Toscana Metano Umbria Energia Sant’Angelo Distribuzione Gas Net profit (million euro) 41 0.5 0.2 Municipalities under gas management 102 5 1 Redelivery points operative 794,456 9,819 50,254 Gas distributed (million m3) 1,134 17 57.9 Employees on the workforce 442 3 3 11 CORPORATE STRUCTURE The Italgas group as at 31 December 2018 is illustrated in the following organisation chart. 50% Metano S. Angelo Lodigiano COMPANY VALUED USING THE EQUITY METHOD 45% 48,08% CONSOLIDATION AREA 100% 100% Italgas Acqua CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // THE ITALGAS GROUP Italgas Reti 100% EGN 60% 100% Medea una società di Italgas una società di Italgas 100% Naturgas 100% una società di Italgas EGN Distribuzione 100% una società di Italgas 100% Grecanica Gas una società di Italgas Fontenergia una società di Italgas 100% 100% Progas Metano Fontenergia4 Ischia Gas una società di Italgas una società di Italgas una società di Italgas 100% Baranogas Reti Fontenergia6 una società di Italgas 100% una società di Italgas Fontenergia7 Marigliano Gas 100% una società di Italgas una società di Italgas Favaragas Reti una società di Italgas Fontenergia9 una società di Italgas 100% Siculianagas Reti una società di Italgas Fontenergia10 una società di Italgas 100% Ischia Reti Gas Fontenergia11 una società di Italgas una società di Italgas Fontenergia15 una società di Italgas Fontenergia19 una società di Italgas Fontenergia26 una società di Italgas Fontenergia27 una società di Italgas Fontenergia35 una società di Italgas Fontenergia37 una società di Italgas 12 The main changes in the consolidation area of the Italgas group compared to that existing as at 31 December 2017, concern: • the establishment of Italgas Acqua S.p.A., on 1 January 2018, further to the proportional partial spin-off of Italgas Reti in favour of a newly established company by means of assignment to the latter of the so-called “former Napoletanagas water business segment”; • the acquisition, on 28 February 2018, of 100% of the share capital of Ichnusa Gas S.p.A., a holding company which controlled 12 companies holding concessions for the construction and running of LPG distribution networks in Sardinia, subsequently merged in Medea on 28 November 2018, with retroactive accounting effectiveness as from 1 January 2018; • the acquisition, on 13 March 2018, of 100% of the share capital of Seaside S.r.l., a company operating in the energy efficiency sector, together with its wholly-owned subsidiary White 1 S.r.l., subsequently merged via incorporation in Seaside S.r.l. on 16 October 2018; • acquisition on 6 April 2018 of 100% of the share capital of Medea S.p.A., an LPG distribution and sales company in Sassari; • acquisition on 31 May 2018 of 98% and on 27 November 2018 of the residual 2% of the share capital of Favaragas Reti S.r.l., Siculianagas Reti S.r.l., Baranogas Reti S.r.l., Ischia CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // THE ITALGAS GROUP Reti Gas S.r.l., Progas Metano S.r.l. and Grecanica Gas S.r.l., companies which overall hold 7 concessions for the construction and management of the gas network in 16 Municipalities in Southern Italy; • the acquisition, on 30 November 2018, of 100% of Naturgas S.r.l. and Fontenergia S.r.l. and 60% of EGN (European Gas Network) S.r.l., a holding company which controls 3 companies holding concessions for the construction and running of gas distribution networks. In conclusion, during 2018: • the following companies were merged via incorporation within Italgas Reti S.p.A. with accounting and tax effects as from 1 January 2018: (i) ACAM Gas S.p.A. on 21 May 2018 and (ii) Enerco S.p.A. and S.G.S. S.r.l. on 18 April 2018; • Italgas Reti finalised the acquisitions of the business segments of Amalfitana Gas and AEnergia Reti relating respectively to the natural gas distribution activities in three ATEMs (minimum geographical areas) in Campania and Basilicata and the distribution network serving the Municipality of Portopalo di Capopassero (Siracusa). 13 ORGANISATION OF ACTIVITIES During the last two years, the Group created a new holding company and reconfigured the operating entities so as to improve the interaction and streamline the most important processes. Accordingly, today Italgas S.p.A. includes staff functions, while the mainly operational activities have been concentrated within Italgas Reti S.p.A.. During 2018, in particular, the reorganisation of the Italgas Reti’s Operations achieved in 2017 was consolidated and the “professional families” were identified for the purpose of ensuring the safeguarding and development of the technical know-how and the sharing of the operating methods, best practices and work instruments among all the Operations units involved. Each professional family is overseen by a Competence Leader, who supervises the development of the know-how, defines the objectives and priorities, calls and handles the meetings and the interaction between the members of the professional family, which during 2018 were 45. The 13 professional families, involving a total of 300 members, represent six different business CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // THE ITALGAS GROUP areas: asset creation, asset management and maintenance, commercial service management, tender management, staff and transversal activities. Distribution of added value 2018 (%) DISTRIBUTION OF ADDED VALUE6 In 2018, the gross added value produced by the Group was 1,132 million euros. A significant portion of this figure remained within the company mainly for amortisation, depreciation and impairment, while 605 million euros was distributed to stakeholders. Specifically, 41% went to employees (248 million euros), more than 31% to • Employee 41% the shareholders (189 million euros), • Shareholders 31,2% 20% to the Public Administration • Public Administration 20% Authorities (121 million euros) and 8% to lenders (47 million euros). • Lenders 7,8% 6_For the calculation of the breakdown of the added value, the principals for the final preparation of the Study Group for the Social Report (GBS) were used 14 CALCULATION OF THE ADDED VALUE (IN MILLIONS OF €) 2017 2018 (*) Core business revenue and Other revenue and income (*) 1,621 1,641 Net financial expenses 0 0 Income from equity investments 23 20 less external costs (**): Raw materials (146) (125) Services (340) (314) Use of third party assets (76) (81) Capital losses (7) (2) CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // THE ITALGAS GROUP Other operating expense (24) (9) Internal work capitalised Payroll and related costs and financial 3 2 expense Adjusted gross added value 1,054 1,132 Amortisation, depreciation and write-downs (358) (401) Adjusted net added value 696 731 (*) T  he balances shown in the table are taken from the 2018 income statement net of the so-called special items (non-recurrent costs relating to facilitated redundancies of the staff for 2.5 million). (**) The item includes the effects of IFRIC 12 “Service concession arrangements” amounting to 447 million euros. DISTRIBUTION OF THE ADDED VALUE (IN MILLIONS OF €) Economic value produced (A) 696 731 Economic value distributed (B) 571 605 of which to Employees (wages, salaries, expenses, severance pay, 243 248 costs for services to staff) of which to Lenders (debt interest) 36 47 of which Shareholders (*) 168 189 of which the Public Administration 124 121 (direct and indirect taxes and levies) Economic value retained within the Group (A B) 125 126 (*) The 2018 figure refers to the dividend proposed by the Board of Directors, subject to the approval of the next shareholders’ meeting on 4 April 2019 15 METHODOLOGICAL NOTE REPORTING STANDARDS The Consolidated Non-Financial Statement of the Italgas group (hereinafter also the “Statement”), drawn up in compliance with Article 4 of Italian Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 (hereinafter also the “Decree”), contains information relating to environmental and social aspects, pertaining to the staff, the respect for human rights and the fight against corruption, useful for providing the stakeholders with an accurate, in-depth and transparent overview of the activities of the Italgas group (hereinafter also “the Group”, “the Company” and “Italgas”), of the results achieved and their trend, as well as of the services provided. This Statement, which is published annually, is drawn up according to the GRI Standards (accordance core option) published in 2016 by the Global Reporting Initiative, which to-date represent the most common and well-known benchmark at international level with regard to non-financial reporting. For the purpose of facilitating the reader in retrieving the information within the document, pages CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // THE ITALGAS GROUP 105 et seq. contain the GRI Content Index. The information present in the Statement reflects the principle of materiality or relevance, as envisaged both by the reference legislation and the GRI Standards. As a result, the aspects subject to non-financial reporting are those which, further to the materiality analysis, described on page 15 of this document, were considered “relevant”, or rather capable of representing the effective impacts of the Group’s activities or influencing the decisions of its stakeholders. REPORTING SCOPE AND METHOD The qualitative and quantitative data and information contained in this Statement refer to the performance of the Italgas group in the year ended 31 December 2018. The reporting scope concerns the parent company (Italgas S.p.A.7) and the wholly-owned subsidiaries (Italgas Reti S.p.A., Medea S.p.A8., Fontenergia 7 S.r.l., Fontenergia 9 S.r.l., Italgas Acqua S.p.A., Seaside S.r.l.). European Gas Network S.r.l. and its subsidiaries (EGN Distribuzione S.r.l., Ischia Gas S.r.l., Marigliano Gas S.r.l.), Naturgas S.r.l. and Fontenergia S.r.l. are not included in the scope since the closing of their acquisition was finalised in the second half of 2018 thus not making it possible, as at 31 December 2018, to gather the non-financial information for the purposes of the inclusion of the same in the Group’s Consolidated Non-Financial Statement. Furthermore, Grecanica Gas S.r.l., Progas Metano S.r.l., Baranogas Reti S.r.l., Favaragas Reti S.r.l., Siculianagas Reti S.r.l., Ischia Reti Gas S.r.l., Fontenergia 4 S.r.l., Fontenergia 6 S.r.l., Fontenergia 10 S.r.l., Fontenergia 11 S.r.l., Fontenergia 15 S.r.l., Fontenergia 19 S.r.l., Fontenergia 26 S.r.l., Fontenergia 27 S.r.l., Fontenergia 35 S.r.l., Fontenergia 37 S.r.l. were not included in the scope because, despite being acquired in the first half of the year, the analysis of the dimension and the operating data has not revealed them to be significant. Any limitations or changes to this scope have been appropriately indicated within the Document. 7_During 2018, the following companies were merged via incorporation within Italgas Reti S.p.A.: (i) ACAM Gas S.p.A. on 21 May 2018, with statutory effects as from 1st June 2018 and (ii) Enerco S.p.A. and S.G.S. S.r.l. on 18 April 2018, with statutory effects as from 1st May 2018. 8_Ichnusa Gas S.p.A. was merged via incorporation in Medea S.p.A. on 28 November 2018, with statutory effects as from 12 December 2018. 16 REPORTING PROCESS The drafting of the Statement for 2018 was based on a structured reporting process which envisaged: • the involvement of all the company divisions/units responsible for the relevant spheres and the related data and information forming the subject matter of the Statement. They were requested to describe in the Statement the materials aspects, the projects and the most significant initiatives, as well as proceed with the collation, analysis and consolidation of the data, with the task of checking and validating the information contained in the Statement, each one for their own area of competence. In detail, the data and information included in the Statement derive from a non-financial reporting system (data collation files) specifically adopted to satisfy the requirements of Italian Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 and the GRI Standards. The data was processed by means of accurate calculations and extractions and, where specifically indicated, by means of estimates; • the approval of the Statement by the Board of Directors, called on 22 February 2019 for CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // THE ITALGAS GROUP the approval of the 2018 draft financial statements; • the issue of a compliance opinion on the Statement by PwC, in the form of limited assurance; • the publication of the Statement on the corporate website. 17 18 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // SUSTAINABILITY IN ITALGAS: VALUE AND STRATEGY SUSTAINABILITY IN ITALGAS: VALUE AND STRATEGY CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // SUSTAINABILITY IN ITALGAS: VALUE AND STRATEGY In its business model Italgas considers sustainability to be a fundamental principle which contributes towards the definition of the Group’s operational and strategic choices and guarantees, over the long-term, growing coherence with the principles of respect for the environment, development of the staff, positive interaction with the area and the The Sustainability Plan is subject to annual communities in which it operates. Italgas, review (as is the Business Plan) and is made from its inception, has endowed itself with up of 5 key pillars of the Group’s commitment a Sustainability Committee and the CSR with regard to socio-environmental aspects, 14 unit dedicated to the supervision of all the objectives and 45 short/medium-term actions. aspects of sustainability and to the nonfinancial reporting of the Group. Specifically, the five pillars on which the Plan is based are: The sustainability aspects are part of the operational management of the company •  Strengthen and enhance the company’s and a reference value for the activities of Top sustainability position, establishing management and all the company units. The processes for integrating sustainability into strategic guidelines, in terms of commitment the business and working on increasing the and lines of action, are contained in the culture of sustainability within the company Sustainability Plan developed, on a consistent along the entire value chain; basis with the SDGs of the United Nations, •  Prioritise everyone who works for Italwithin the 2018-2024 Business Plan. gas, protecting and enhancing the company’s know-how, increasing the wellbeing of staff and improving accident rates; •  Gain recognition from the community, fostering relations with the local areas and investing in the communities in a way that is consistent and integrated with the business; 19 •  Create value for customers and the gas market by harmonising processes with sales companies and developing the relationship with the end customer; •  Contribute to the efficiency and security of the energy systemo, through the improvement of energy efficiency and the reduction of the carbon footprint, developing gas advocacy and enabling circular economic processes. The main action and initiatives implemented CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // SUSTAINABILITY IN ITALGAS: VALUE AND STRATEGY by the Group in 2018 are presented below, divided up by area of activity and which have led to a level of completion of the Plan of 68% already in its first year of implementation, confirming the commitment which the Company manifests for the promotion of the sustainability culture: •  Development and involvement of the individuals by means of: • Improvement of the sustainability position - Creation of 7 career days care of of the Group by means of: Universities and 6 internal workshops Compliance with the Global Compact and for the development of skills for high another 4 sustainability networks; potential individuals and youngsters; Participation in 5 questionnaires for the Launch of a survey into welfare services; assessment and admission of the stock Extension of the use of smart working to to the sustainability indexes (DJSI and 140 individuals; FTSE4Good); - Realisation of 25 initiatives in Organisation of induction activities with the collaboration with Valore D; members of the BoD, the Board of Statutory Performance of 10 engagement initiatives Auditors and company management; with 1,078 employees of 258 suppliers; Inclusion of the sustainability section in Organisation of 4 safety Walks in the the company website and simultaneous regional centres. sharing of the Sustainability Plan brochure. • Promotion of the activities for engagement of customers and market by means of: Realisation of two workshops with 50 sales companies which represent 99% of the PdRs. • Efficiency and safety of the energy system: Acquisition of more than 3,000 new PdRs in the target municipalities (gas advocacy); - Decarbonisation activities by means of the introduction of 710 methane-fuelled service vehicles, the installation of 28 efficient systems which reduce the energy consumption in the gas pre-heating stage and the replacement of 24.5 km on network with lead hemp couplings. 20 During 2018 Italgas formerly complied with the Global Compact, the initiative created 20 years ago due to the desire of the Secretary of the United Nations, Kofi Annan, so as to further a sustainable global economy. Global Impact encourages the companies throughout the entire world to create a network for sustainable development and in order to do so requires the companies and the organisations which comply with the same to act in observance of the 10 universal principles of the Global Impact, which refer to human CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // SUSTAINABILITY IN ITALGAS: VALUE AND STRATEGY rights and employment, the protection of the environment and the fight against corruption. WHAT COMPLIANCE WITH THE GLOBAL COMPACT MEANS FOR ITALGAS • Pursue the principles of the Global Compact by means of solid action and projects; • Annually provide public disclosure on the commitment, on the action implemented and on the results obtained during the year further to implementation of the ten principles of the Global Impact; • Take part in round tables on socio-environmental aspects. SUSTAINABILITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT POLICY During 2018 the Company endowed itself with the Sustainability and Stakeholder Engagement Policy, which describes Italgas’s commitment with regard to environmental, social and governance aspects. The document flanks the Code of Ethics and the other policy documents, such as for example the Environment, Health and Safety and Quality Policy of Italgas Reti or the Anti-corruption Procedure, with a view to furthering a business culture which encourages a sustainable approach to the business and creating value and impact over the long-term. GLOBAL IMPACT ENCOURAGES THE COMPANIES THROUGHOUT THE ENTIRE WORLD TO CREATE A NETWORK FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 21 ITALGAS STOCK IN SUSTAINABILITY INDICES Once again in 2018, Italgas stock was included in the main international SRI stock market indexes, further improving the awareness of the operations of the company and the information vis-à-vis the socially responsible investors and, more in general vis-à-vis the entire financial market. Already back in 2017 Italgas stock was included in the FTSE4Good series of indexes, which positively evaluated the responses of the CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // SUSTAINABILITY IN ITALGAS: VALUE AND STRATEGY Group to the rigorous criteria of the FTSE independent method within the Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) sphere. As at August 2018, the stock was confirmed in the FTSE4Good series of indexes at the time of the assessment carried out within the sphere of the June 2018 review. The result obtained bears witness to the commitment of the Company to sustainable development based on the leadership of the company in the interaction with the social reference context, aimed at the creation of opportunities focused on the principle of the shared value. In 2018 Italgas was included among the securities selected in the World Enlarged Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) by RobecoSAM. The DJSI is one of the most important index which assesses the financial performance of the global companies which follow sustainability principles. The Italgas stock was confirmed in the MSCI Italy Small Cap Index passing, in 2018, from an A to an AA rating. The MSCI Global Sustainability indexes include the companies with a high sustainability rating among those of the sector of membership. The Italgas stock has been included in the ECPI Euro ESG Equity and ECPI World ESG Equity stock. ECPI focuses on the ESG (Environmental, Social, and Governance) performance indicators which determine the sustainability profile of an issuer. ECPI uses an objective approach, differentiated by industrial sectors in the analysis of the ESG data with the aim of translating mainly qualitative information into quantitative indicators thus assigning a score and a rating to each issuer. Since 2017, CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) recognised Italgas as an international leader in the implementation of strategies and actions to combat climate change. In 2018 it obtained inclusion in the “Climate change B List”. 22 23 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS MANAGEMENT WITHIN ITALGAS 24 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS MANAGEMENT WITHIN ITALGAS MATERIAL ASPECTS: IDENTIFICATION OF THE TOPICS IMPORTANT CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS MANAGEMENT WITHIN ITALGAS FOR ITALGAS Italgas periodically implements its materiality analysis process, aimed at identifying the spheres in which the activities of the Group may more greatly affect the natural ecosystems as well as the wellbeing of the community, the individuals and all the stakeholders of the Group. This analysis, carried out on a consistent basis with the business strategy, is an important stage for the definition of the contents of the Consolidated Non-Financial Statement in compliance with the provisions of Italian Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 and the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards. In terms of sustainability reporting, the aspects which reflect the significant economic, environmental and social impacts of the organisation or which substantially influence the assessments and decisions of stakeholders, are considered material (or rather relevant). IN 2018 THE MATERIAL ASPECTS IDENTIFIED IN 2017 WERE STREAMLINED 25 In 2018 the material aspects identified in 2017 via the analysis of the following were streamlined and supplemented, where necessary: •  benchmarking carried out on the main competitors and best practices of the energy&utilities sector; •  documents within the Group (including the Sustainability Plan, Strategic Plan, Code of Ethics, policies and procedures); •  external documents (including the reports of the World Economic Forum, the OECD Guidelines and the Agenda for Action of the European Commission). The list of the aspects updated further to the analysis, indicated below, was shared with the Sustainability Committee. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS MANAGEMENT WITHIN ITALGAS • Responsible business and anti-corruption management • Integration of ESG elements in the Governance • Energy efficiency • Reduction of the carbon footprint • Waste management • Protection of health and safety in the workplace • Responsible supply chain management • Reliability, quality and safety of the service • Innovation and digitisation • Social innovation and relationship with the reference communities • Relations with the Regulatory Authority • Security of the information and data (cyber security) • Transparent dealings and collaboration with the sales companies • Employment and the protection of workers’ rights • Development and enhancement of human capital • Corporate diversity and welfare The aspects relating to the water resources and the protection of Human Rights, even though envisaged by Italian Legislative Decree No. 254/2016, have not been included among the material ones, in consideration of the territorial, legislative and business context in which the Group operates. These aspects are therefore dealt with within the Statement. 2018 was an important year also for the definition of the stakeholder engagement activities aimed at involving the external and internal stakeholders in the evaluation of the list of material aspects as from 2019. ITALGAS AND ITS STAKEHOLDERS Based on the interactions with the main stakeholders, also identified as recipients of the Code of Ethics, and the characteristics of the sector, Italgas, with the direct contribution of its corporate functions, has identified the categories of stakeholders that can reasonably affect capacity of the company to implement its own strategy and which can be significantly influenced by company activitie. The involvement of the stakeholders represents for the Group an occasion for feedback and dialogue fundamental for understanding the level of satisfaction with respect to its action. 26 Accordingly, Italgas adopts diversified and flexible dialogue and involvement practices, in response to the various characteristics and needs of the stakeholders. The stakeholder engagement activities carried out in 2018, as described within the individual section of this Document, did not reveal any particular critical aspects, but rather useful insights in terms of improvement for the services and the operational and management models. STAKEHOLDER STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT CATEGORY Investitors Periodic financial reports; Shareholders’ Meeting; road show, institutional website, and lenders compilation of questionnaires aimed at assessing the sustainability performance. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS MANAGEMENT WITHIN ITALGAS Suppliers Dedicated meetings, annual involvement initiatives. Direct and continuous relationship with the sales staff through dedicated dialogue Client and sales channels (ad es. “GasOnLine”); interactions with the end customers via the portal companies “MyItalgas”; multiannual promotional initiatives (e.g. “ItalgaSummer”); periodic workshops with sales companies. Authorities Ad hoc meetings. and institution Training; annual meetings to discuss the growth path; workshops; Company Employees intranet; dedicated meetings; newsletters; analysis of the Company’s work environment. Community and local Cultural meetings and initiatives; meetings with the representatives environment of the associations, organizations and local communities, social networks. Communities and local environment Employees Investors and lenders Authorities and institutions Suppliers Client and sales companies 27 28 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // PEOPLE AND ORGANISATION GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT OF ACTIVITIES CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // PEOPLE AND ORGANISATION Italgas’s governance system follows the “traditional” administration and control model, which envisages the presence of the Board of Directors (BoD) and the Board of Statutory Auditors, in office for three accounting periods, as well as the Shareholders’ meeting and the Independent auditing firm. The Board of Directors defines the rules and methods of planning, management and control that make up the corporate governance system in compliance with the regulations to which it is subject as a listed Issuer and with the Self-Regulatory Code of the listed companies issued by the Corporate Governance committee, in the last edition dated July 2018. This system is based on a number of key principles, such as a correct and transparent choice of management of the business activities ensured also by means of the identification of information flows between the corporate bodies and an efficient definition of the internal control and risk management system. The Shareholders’ meeting represent Italgas’s decision-making body which is responsible for the task, in ordinary and extraordinary session, of appointing the members of the BoD and the Board of Statutory Auditors and establishing the related fees, approving the financial statements, including the allocation of the profits, and resolving with regard to the purchase of treasury shares, amendments to the Articles of Association and issue of convertible bonds. With the exception of these documents, all ordinary and extraordinary administration is the responsibility of the Board of Directors, the central body in the corporate governance system. BOARD OF DIRECTORS Italgas S.p.A.’s BoD is tasked with the ordinary and extraordinary management of the Company and has the faculty to carry out all the acts deemed appropriate for the implementation and achievement of the corporate purpose, with the exclusion of the acts which, pursuant to applicable legislation and the Articles of Association, are reserved for the Shareholders’ meeting. The composition of the BoD respects the company policies with regard to diversity in relation to aspects such as age, gender composition as well as training and professional background. Demonstrating the importance of this aspect, in 2018 the Group drafted a “Policy for the diversity of the corporate bodies” approved by 29 the Company’s Board of Directors on 24 January 2019. The management body is made up of nine members: of which three are women, in compliance with gender balance criteria9, while four meet the requirements of independence; the age of the Directors ranges between 41 and 62; the training and professional background of the Directors currently in office (lawyers, engineers, economists) guarantees a balanced combination of profiles and experience within the management body suitable for ensuring the correct performance of the functions. All the Italgas director possess the integrity requirements laid down by current legislation, and an executive director, seven non-executive directors and a chairman without management powers is appointed from among the same. DIVERSITY IN THE COMPOSITION OF MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTOR STANDARD GRI 405-1 Unit of 2016 2017 2018 measurement CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // PEOPLE AND ORGANISATION Total members of the no. 9 9 9 BoD no. 3 3 3 of which women % 33.3 33.3 33.3 Three Committees have been established within the Board of Directors, with advisory and proposal functions: Control and Risk and Related Party Transactions Committee, Appointments and Remuneration Committee, Sustainability Committee. COMMETTEE: COMPOSITION AND FUNCTIONS Control and Risk and Related Appointments and Remuneration Appointments and Remuneration Party Transactions Committee Committee Committee It comprises three nonIt comprises three non-executive It comprises three non-executive executive and independent directors, two of whom are directors, one of whom is indedirectors. independent. pendent. It plays a proactive and advisory It plays a proactive and It plays a proactive and advisory role in relation to the Board of advisory role in relation to the role in relation to the Board Directors regarding the Internal Board of Directors regarding of Directors regarding all the Control System, risk managethe appointment of directors, processes and activities which ment and periodic financial their remuneration and that contribute to the company’s reports, as well as related party of managers with strategic sustainable development along transactions. responsibilities. the value chain. 9_The Board has 3 Directors of the least represented gender, equal to a third of the overall composition. The composition of the Board of Directors (as well as the Board of Statutory Auditors) is therefore already compliant with the legislation concerning balance between the genders which was applied in advance and on a voluntary basis at the time of admission to stock market listing and to an extent greater than that envisaged by law for the first renewal subsequent to listing (1/3 instead of 1/5 as envisaged for the first renewal). 30 SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE The Sustainability Committee also has a specific function with respect to the areas referred to in Italian Decree 254/2016, since one of its main tasks is to examine, evaluate and monitor: • sustainability policies, seeking to ensure the creation of value over time for all shareholders and all other stakeholders in the medium to long term; • the guidelines, objectives, and the consequent sustainability processes; • the non-financial reporting submitted annually for the approval of the Board of Directors; •  the positioning of the Company with respect to the financial markets with regard to sustainability aspects, with particular reference to the placement of the same in the ethical sustainability indexes; • the national and international initiatives with regard to sustainability in which to take part also for the purpose of consolidating the business reputation on the international front; • the sustainability initiatives possibly envisaged in the agreements submitted to the Board of Directors, also in relation to the subject of climate change; CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // PEOPLE AND ORGANISATION • the profit and non-profit strategy, as well as gas advocacy. From the very start, Italgas also set up the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Unit within the External Relations and Communication department. The CSR unit oversees sustainability processes and ensures the coordination of the contribution of each company department involved in the various issues. In particular, during the year the CSR unit monitored the progress of the action envisaged by the Sustainability Plan and the related up-date. BOARD OF STATUTORY AUDITORS Italgas’s Board of Statutory Auditors oversees the observance of the law and the Articles of Association, the observance of the correct principles of administration, the adequacy of the organisational structure, the internal control system and the administrative and accounting system as well as the methods of implementation of the corporate governance rules envisaged by the Self-regulatory Code. The Board of Statutory Auditors is made up of 3 standing auditors and 2 alternative auditors, in relation to whom it is specified that: (I) a standing Auditor and an alternate Auditor belong to the least represented gender10; (II) without prejudice to the professionalism requirements envisaged by the law, the training and professional background of the members of the Board of Statutory Auditors guarantees the expertise suitable for ensuring the correct performance of the functions they are responsible for. SUSTAINABILITY INDUCTION FOR THE SENIOR BODIES On Monday 29 October2018, the Group for the purpose of furthering the culture of sustainability involved the directors, the statutory auditors and top management in a board induction meeting on socio-environmental aspects with Professor Enrico Giovannini, founder of and spokesman for the Italian Alliance for Sustainable Development (ASviS). This encounter was dedicated to the in-depth analysis of the sustainability topics regarding Italgas’s sector of activities, the description of the future trends and the analysis of the methods by means of which the Company can play a fundamental role for sustainable development in the gas distribution sector. 10_The composition of the Board of Statutory Auditors is therefore already compliant with the legislation concerning balance between the genders which was applied in advance and on a voluntary basis at the time of admission to stock market listing. 31 32 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS MANAGEMENT WITHIN ITALGAS RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS MANAGEMENT WITHIN ITALGAS CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS MANAGEMENT WITHIN ITALGAS The Italgas Group operates on the basis of a corporate management model. The Code Corporate Management System, comprising and the values contained in the same are an Organisational System and a Regulatory adopted by all the Italgas Group companies. System, which defines roles, responsibilities, Ethics is a guiding factor informing the powers and rules of conduct to be adopted in company’s strategic and operational choices the running of the business activities. and a lever to ensure long-term sustainable growth, while providing the results expected The Corporate Management System is by shareholders and sharing with all its continuously updated in order to ensure the stakeholders the value generated, also from effectiveness and efficiency of processes, an environmental and social point of view. the safeguarding of corporate assets and compliance with the regulations that also The Code of Ethics also defines the guiding allow Italgas to direct the management and principles on which the entire Internal Control coordination of its subsidiaries. and Risk Management system is based and is a general principle of the Organisation and Control Model, which is constantly updated in THE CODE OF ETHICS line with the developments of Italian Legislative Decree No. 231/2001. The Italgas Code of Ethics11 is the system of values on which the Group’s ethical culture is based. These values inspire the conduct of company activities in line with the principles of sustainability and corporate responsibility considered an integral part of its own 11_The Code of Ethics is available on the Company website http://www.italgas.it/it/governance/ etica-dimpresa/il-codice-etico/. 33 PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS As indicated in the Code of Ethics, the protection of human rights is of fundamental importance and a recognised issue for Italgas, and is mainly connected to the wider issue of “Employment and protection of workers’ rights”. Italgas pays particular attention to the recognition and safeguard of the dignity, freedom and equality of human beings, worker protection and trade union freedom, health, CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS MANAGEMENT WITHIN ITALGAS safety and the environment. In this regard, the Group operates within the framework of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the fundamental Conventions of the ILO International Labour Organisation and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. Compliance with the Global Compact of the United Nations, which took place in 2018, confirms the commitment towards protection and promotion of human rights by Italgas. THE 231 ORGANISATION, MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL MODEL The Organisation, Management and Control Model pursuant to Italian Legislative Decree No. 231/2001 (hereinafter the 231 Model) approved in 2016 by the BoD, is intended for the members of the corporate bodies, management and the employees of Italgas, as well as all those who operate for the achievement of the Group’s objectives. COMPLIANCE WITH THE GLOBAL COMPACT OF THE UNITED NATIONS The Model consists of a series of principles and rules of conduct, operating procedures CONFIRMS THE COMMITMENT TOWARDS and initiatives aimed at preventing the PROTECTION AND PROMOTION OF HUMAN commission of offences, guaranteeing ethical RIGHTS BY ITALGAS. conduct by those who operate on behalf of the company in observance of the principles of legitimacy, completeness and transparency. The observance of the 231 Model is monitored by the Supervisory Body so as to ensure the satisfactory functioning and constant updating of said Model. The Chief Executive Officer has the task of implementing and up-dating the 231 Model, while the Board of Directors is responsible for up-dating the general binding principles of the Model. 34 TRAINING ON THE NEW 231 MODEL For the purpose of keeping the Model up-todate and therefore maintaining the legislative compliance, during 2018 the Company launched a process for the up-date of the general part which concluded with the approval of the new Model and the Code of Ethics by the BoD in January 2019. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS MANAGEMENT WITHIN ITALGAS Italgas’s Board of Directors, on 24 January 2019, approved an up-date to the Code of Ethics and the 231 Model of Italgas, having taken into account the recent legislative provisions which amended Italian Legislative Decree No. 231/2001 (Italian Law No. 179/2017 “Whistleblowing”), also intervening on the information flows to the Supervisory Body. In particular, the amendments concerned: • the reinforced reference to the Code of Ethics, as expression of the ethical values of the Company and as binding principle to which the business procedures will have to aspire; • the channels and the information flows to the Supervisory Body, in accordance with ineligibility and expiry of the term of the the recent legislation concerning reporting members of the Supervisory Body; (Italian Law No. 179/2017, so-called • the introduction of an additional information “Whistleblowing”); flow concerning whistleblowing on acts of •  the integration of the reasons on corruption. These amendments will be acknowledged in all the Italgas Group companies. Italgas S.p.A.’s subsidiary companies autonomously adopt their own Organisation, Management and Control Model on the basis of the specificities of the different company situations, taking however as a benchmark the principles of the Italgas S.p.A. 231 Model and taking into account the indications and implementation formalities in relation to the Group’s organisational and operational set-up. Furthermore, each Subsidiary establishes an autonomous and independent Supervisory Body. The Group has also endowed itself with a Reporting Procedure on a consistent basis 35 with the best practices on the subject. This in accordance with the Italgas Anti-corruption procedure disciplines the process for the receipt, Procedure, and is an integral part of the Internal analysis and handling of the reports sent or Control System on Corporate Disclosure. In line transmitted by whomever, also in confidential or with the amendments of the Italgas 231 Model, anonymous form, with regard to any irregularities and with the attainment of the UNI ISO 37001 or violations of the applicable legislation and the certification concerning the management internal procedures. The Reporting Procedure systems for the prevention of and fight against complies with the fulfilments envisaged by the corruption, also an up-date of this Procedure 231 Model, represents a legislative instrument is envisaged. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS MANAGEMENT WITHIN ITALGAS ITALGAS ENTERPRISE SYSTEM The Italgas Enterprise System (IES), a fundamental part of the company regulatory system, provides a complete description of the company’s activities and processes and is therefore an important instrument supporting the operations of each Group department. Following the issue of the IES, the regulatory system was revised to adapt the group rules to the principles described. In particular, the IES mapped out an initial approach to the sustainability model, which aims to provide an approach to corporate social responsibility that combines business objectives with respect for environmental, social and governance issues, and that recognises the central role of stakeholders and their needs to create social value as well as economic value, also with the drive towards innovation. By means of the awareness raising and training, Italgas people are made aware of how the rules and codes apply to their activities and conduct and how to deal with any critical situations. OUTLINE OF THE ITALGAS CORPORATE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM International Regulations Organizational Notices ORGANIZATIONAL Circulars SYSTEM Authority to represent the Company Internal delegated powers MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Italgas Enterprise System Policies REGULATORY Manuals SYSTEM Standards Operating instructions Circulars 36 INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Italgas has adopted an Internal Control and Risk Management System integrated into the organisational, administrative and accounting structure and, more generally, into the corporate governance system. This system ensures compliance with corporate laws and procedures, protects company assets and contributes to the prudential management of activities by providing CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS MANAGEMENT WITHIN ITALGAS solid accounting and financial data. The Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) unit, which was established under the aegis of the structured and standardised risk identification, General Manager for Finance and Services, assessment, management and control model has the task of overseeing the integrated for all Group companies. The process for the management of business risks for all Group identification, assessment, measurement companies operating in this way within the and management of the risks is carried out sphere of the more extensive Italgas Internal periodically, at least once a year, on the basis Control and Risk Management System. The of the importance of the risk and any changes ERM activities are focused on the creation of a in context, by means of the involvement of all the standardised and transversal risk assessment company units. The identification of the risks is model, the identification of the priority risks, carried out covering the entire scope of the Group ensuring the establishment of mitigating actions and all the potential applicable events. and development of a reporting system. The ERM methodology adopted by the Italgas Group is in For the purpose of ensuring a correct assessment line with the reference models and the existing and prioritisation of the risk events, the international best practices (including, for assessment is carried out considering the example, the COSO Framework and ISO 31000). following possible types of impact: Through the ERM, Italgas has chosen to adopt a • economic-financial; • operational (services, assets and human capital); • legal, governance and compliance; • environment, health and safety; • reputation and market. The assessment of each risk is carried out via recourse to specific assessment scales which clarify the thresholds of importance for the Group and permit the assignment of a rating to each risk, thereby facilitating the prioritisation of the same. The issues of greatest importance for the Group, the areas specified by the legislation and the main risks and the related mitigation action, subject to analysis and monitoring within the Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) process, are presented below. 37 MATCHING TABLE: IMPORTANT ISSUES, SCOPE OF THE DECREE AND MAIN RISKS12 MAPPED OUT IN THE ERM PROCESS Scope of Italian Material issues 2018 Legislative Decree Description of risks Main mitigation action adopted No. 254/2016 Risk of non-compliance due to failure to comply, wholly or in part, with Eu• Code of Ethics, 231 Model, Policy for ropean, national, regional the prevention of and the fight against and local regulations that corruption; Italgas must follow, in • ISO 37001 anti-corruption certification particular with reference for Italgas and Italgas Networks; CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS MANAGEMENT WITHIN ITALGAS • Responsible business to Corporate Governance • Areas of responsibility defined with and anti-corruption and the internal conregard to Compliance; management; Fight against trol system, protection active and passive of health and safety of • Monitoring of the legislative evolution • Integration of ESG corruption workers and the environand related adaptation of the internal elements in the ment and the fight against regulatory system; Governance; corruption, with possible • Training on corporate social responsibility penalties, even signifiand anti-corruption; cant, against the compa• Analysis and monitoring of reputational ny in accordance with the requirements of the Group’s counterparties regulations governing the (suppliers, sub-contractors, etc.); administrative liability of institutions (Italian Legislative Decree No. 231/01) • Quality, social and environmental system (HSEQ) in compliance with the latest versions of the reference standards; • Applications for the prompt and efficient gathering, handling and reporting of the • Risks connected to data relating to the health and safety of the health, safety and workers; • Energy efficiency; environmental protection in relation to current • Training activities, and awareness raising • Reduction of the activities and reclamation initiatives on the aspects of Health, Safety carbon footprint; of contaminated sites, and Environment; removal and disposal of • On-going checks and audits on the working • Waste management; waste. practices and systems certified both Environment, • Risks associated with the internally and by external professionals; Health and Safety • Protection of health operational, reputational •  Analysis and monitoring of reputational and safety in the and compliance reliability requirements of the Group’s counterparties workplace; of the suppliers of (suppliers, sub-contractors, etc.); materials/subcontractors • Responsible supply • Qualification procedures for third party appointed to execute chain management; companies, engineering and works operating activities management, supervision of the execution risks of sub-contractors; • On-going up-date of the vendor list; • Technical/on-site HSEQ visits / process and quality audits on suppliers, also with the involvement of outside professionals. 12_Main risks mean those arising from the application of the Italgas Group ERM methodology with significant impact and/or probability with respect to the identified areas/issues. 38 TABLE LINKING: IMPORTANT ISSUES, SCOPE OF THE DECREE AND MAIN RISKS12 MAPPED OUT IN THE ERM PROCESS Scope of Italian LegislaMaterial issues 2018 Description of risks Main mitigation action adopted tive Decree No. 254/2016 • Procedures and systems for the handling of emergencies, emergency plans with defined measures for the placement in safety of the plants and for ensuring the continuity of the service; CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS MANAGEMENT WITHIN ITALGAS • Scheduled search for leaks by means of the use of innovative systems and technologies; • Operational risks of • Plant and asset safety and network malfunctioning and unexpected • Reliability, quality and monitoring systems; interruption of the distribution safety of the service; service caused by accidental • Qualification procedures for third events including incidents, • Innovation party construction companies, breakdowns or malfunctions of and digitisation; engineering and works management, equipment or control systems, supervision of the execution risks of reduced performance of • Social innovation and sub-contractorsi; installations and extraordinary relationship with the events such as explosions, reference communities; • Action for preventing potential fires, earthquakes, landslides or damage to pipes carried out by Third other similar events beyond the Relations with the • Social • Parties (e.g. other sub-services); control of Italgas; Regulatory Authority; • Action for the on-going modernisation • Regulatory risk, in relation to • Security of the of the network (investment in the changes made by European information and data maintenance, replacement of cast Union and Italian government (cyber security); iron pipes and pipes with mechanical directives and regulatory couplings, plans for the recovery of provisions, ARERA decisions • Transparent dealings risers and brackets); and possible changes in and collaboration with the regulatory framework the sales companies. • Development of network digitisation governing the criteria for initiatives, for the progressive setting the reference tariffs. improvement of the real time monitoring systems and the preventive maintenance; • Establishment of the Digital Factory for the development of innovative solutions aimed at the digitisation of the processes and the improvement of the operating and management activities of the network and the quality of the service.; 39 TABLE LINKING: IMPORTANT ISSUES, SCOPE OF THE DECREE AND MAIN RISKS12 MAPPED OUT IN THE ERM PROCESS Scope of Italian Material issues Legislative Description of risks Main mitigation action adopted 2018 Decree No. 254/2016 •Periodic survey on the in-house • Employment and climate extended to all Group the protection of • Risk linked to the employees; workers’ rights; • Personnel; reduction of the level of satisfaction of the staff in •  On-going streamlining of the • Development and • Respect certain functional areas; technical training processes; CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS MANAGEMENT WITHIN ITALGAS enhancement of for Human human capital; Rights. • Risk associated with the • Succession plan for the senior roles; lack of technical and • Corporate diversity specialist know-how. •D evelopment plan of the resources and welfare. which envisages a specific training programme per profile. The risks identified are managed using three Finally, alleged violations of the principles and levels of control, involving different operating rules of conduct of corporate activities are also units with specific responsibilities. The model checked by analysing reports received, also provides for an integrated, transversal and anonymously, through the channels provided dynamic risk assessment that improves the by the Reporting Procedure, applicable to all management systems already existing in the Group companies. individual company processes. With regard to all the risks, the risk ownerships are identified In 2018, 8 reports were received (down with and assigned and management strategies are respect to 2017, year in which 19 were received), defined, implemented in specific action and in of which 6 looked at the internal control system related implementation timescales. and 2 the ethical and behavioural aspects. As at 31 December 2018, all the reports received The results of the main risks and the related during the year had been duly processed, and management plans are presented to the of these 6 had been closed. Control and Risk and Related Party Transactions Committee, in order to allow the assessment of In the event that the reports concerned the the effectiveness of the Internal Control and Risk distribution network and were well-grounded, Management System, with respect to Italgas the related installations have been made safe specific characteristics and the risk profile and notifications sent to the competent local undertaken. The results are also used by the authorities. Internal Audit department, which exercises its control function by preparing and implementing audit plans. During 2018, 35 audits were carried out, of which 6 scheduled audits, 1 special operational audit, 1 for other reasons and 27 independent monitoring checks. 40 REPORTS RECEIVED Unit of 2016 2017 2018 measurement Total reports received no. 20 19 8 of which, related to the Internal Control System no. 12 13 6 o f which, related to other matters (Code of no. 8 6 2 Ethics, harassment at work, theft, security, etc.) Closed notifications no. 20 17 6 Reports under examination no. 2 2 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS MANAGEMENT WITHIN ITALGAS SECURITY OF THE All the Subsidiaries, at the time of their Board INFORMATION AND DATA Meetings, defined and formally approved (CYBER SECURITY) a Data Protection Organisational Model consistent with the standards which inspired In 2018 Italgas and its subsidiaries carried out the Italgas Data Protection Organisational a process for the adaptation of the provisions Model albeit designed in accordance with their of (EU) Regulation No. 2016/679 “relating to specific requirements and their organisational the protection of individuals with regard to structure. personal data processing, as well as the free circulation of said data, and which repeals The Subsidiaries in conclusion identified and directive No. 95/46/EC” (hereinafter, the appointed the DPO of Italgas S.p.A. “GDPR”), which became applicable in all the member nations of the European Union as from 25 May 2018. On 7 May 2018, Italgas S.p.A.’s Board of Directors approved its Data Protection Organisational Model defined in the Compliance Data Protection Standard, identifying the key figures of the personal data handling system, defining the related roles and responsibilities in relation to the processing of the data, and appointing the Data Protection Officer (“DPO”), entrusting the same with information and consulting duties, as well as those for overseeing the observance of the GDPR, co-operating with the Supervisory Authority, all of which furthering the culture of the protection of the data within the company, supporting the assessment of the data protection aspects of each new project which may have an impact on the protection of the data, co-ordinating the training activities on Data Protection, identified as the Head of the Internal Audit Unit. 41 42 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // PREVENTION OF ACTIVE AND PASSIVE CORRUPTION PREVENTION OF ACTIVE AND PASSIVE CORRUPTION CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // PREVENTION OF ACTIVE AND PASSIVE CORRUPTION RELEVANCE TO ITALGAS’ ACTIVITIES The phenomenon of corruption is a serious threat to the development of economic and corporate relations. Italgas therefore recognises it as a very important issue, linked to the broader material issue of “responsible business management”, and seeks to counteract it at national and international level, both in relations with public officials and with private individuals. The fight against corruption aims to avoid penalties and repercussions for the business, and to protect the company’s reputation. In fact, one of the key factors of the Italgas Group’s reputation is its ability to conduct its business with fairness, propriety, transparency, honesty and integrity, in compliance with laws, regulations and international standards. ONE OF THE KEY FACTORS OF THE ITALGAS GROUP’S REPUTATION IS ITS ABILITY TO CONDUCT ITS BUSINESS WITH FAIRNESS, PROPRIETY, TRANSPARENCY, HONESTY AND INTEGRITY, IN COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS, REGULATIONS AND INTERNATIONAL STANDARDS. 43 POLICIES AND COMMITMENTS TO MONITOR THE ISSUE Italgas fights and prevents all forms of corruption at home and abroad. The relevance of the corruption risk for the company’s activities is specifically analysed and managed in Model 231. Anti-corruption measures are outlined in the Policy for the Prevention of and Fight against Corruption adopted by Italgas and the Group companies, as well as contained in a specific Procedure that provides a systemic framework for Italgas regulatory instruments in this area, inspired by the principles of conduct set out in the Code of Ethics. The Procedure combines the regulatory instruments Italgas has adopted to prevent any form of corruption in relations with third parties, Public Officials and private individuals, both nationally and internationally, to protect the integrity of the business and the reputation of the Group. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // PREVENTION OF ACTIVE AND PASSIVE CORRUPTION Specifically, the Anti-corruption procedure: • prohibits any form of corruption, either of public officials or private parties; • pays particular attention to the selection of suppliers and the qualification process, the award of contracts, the management of contracts, standard protection clauses, including those of commitment to comply with Anti-Corruption Laws and verification of the ethical requirements of suppliers; • establishes that all relations of the Italgas Group with, or referring to or involving a Public Official must be conducted in compliance with the provisions of the Procedure. The Procedure applies to Italgas S.p.A. and its subsidiaries as part of the management and coordination activities performed by the Group’s corporate body. Italgas also requires suppliers, intermediaries and any other person who may be responsible for the matter on the part of Italgas, to comply with anti-corruption measures. ANTI-TRUST CODE Since 2016 Italgas has adopted its own Anti-trust Code of Conduct (the “Anti-trust Code”), which defines the conduct guidelines which all the Italgas employees and those of the subsidiaries must comply with so as to ensure compliance with the standards laid down by applicable legislation regarding anti-trust matters. The Anti-trust Code applies to the entire Group, within the sphere of the management and co-ordination activities exercised by Italgas S.p.A. and within the sphere of the initiatives dedicated to encourage the development of the business culture with regard to the protection of the competition and with a view to the definition of procedures and systems suitable for reducing the risk of violations of the anti-trust legislation to a minimum, within the wider sphere of the compliance initiatives furthered by the Group. In accordance with the Code, an anti-trust unit has been set up within the Legal Unit, which every individual of the Group can contact for communications regarding the interpretation and the application of the same and each time a situation of potential anti-trust risk arises. In line with the matters published by the AGCM in 2018, the Italgas group has launched an up-date of the company programme and started to develop specific training. 44 ACTIVITIES AND RESULTS During the year activities concluded which permitted Italgas S.p.A. and Italgas Reti S.p.A. to obtain UNI ISO 37001 certification. The certification required a long and accurate audit process on the management system for preventing and fighting corruption, which acknowledged the soundness of a business model aspiring to principles of integrity, sustainability and transparency vis-à-vis the stakeholders. The other companies by contrast were subject to observance of the regulations of the Italgas group regarding anti-corruption and took steps to assimilate the document on anti-corruption. No reports regarding anti-corruption were received in 2018. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // PREVENTION OF ACTIVE AND PASSIVE CORRUPTION In 2018, a total of 209 hours of training were provided on compliance issues, with 78 employees attending. NO REPORTS REGARDING ANTI-CORRUPTION WERE RECEIVED IN 2018. 45 46 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // PEOPLE AND ORGANISATION PEOPLE AND ORGANISATION RELEVANCE TO ITALGAS’ ACTIVITIES The main material issues for Italgas related to personnel management concern: CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // PEOPLE AND ORGANISATION • Employment and the protection of workers’ rights; • Development and enhancement of human capital; • Corporate diversity and welfare. Orientation towards efficiency, guaranteed quality of service, environmental protection and occupational safety represent the common foundations on which the Group has defined a shared culture of values. To achieve these objectives, Italgas invests in the development of skills and abilities of its personnel, encouraging participation, feedback and the creation of a positive working environment. In fact, people are considered to be the company’s most valuable asset. The processes of selection, hiring and training, and that of human resource development are closely related to the Company’s strategic guidelines. The aim is to ensure the availability of the necessary skills and the development of the skills required by the business. POLICIES AND COMMITMENTS TO MONITOR THE ISSUE Italgas’ work is based on the growth and development of its people, the protection of health and safety and the creation of a working environment favourable to professional and human growth. Italgas offers all employees and associate workers career opportunities based on merit, professional and managerial skills and active participation in company development and improvement processes. In line with the Code of Ethics, Italgas considers diversity a corporate asset: it respects the dignity of every individual and guarantees equal opportunities in all phases and for all aspects of the employment relationship, preventing any form of discrimination deriving from differences in sex, age, health, nationality, political or religious opinions. 47 ACTIVITIES AND RESULTS In line with the strategic objectives of the 2018-2024 Multi-year Plan, Italgas has continued along a path of growth and improvement of the operating efficiency. The policies for the management of the Human Resources and the organisational policies and the main achievements in 2018 all point in this direction. This area includes: • the continuation of a major turnover plan, also given the need for generational turnover, which, in addition to everything already achieved in the last two years, will be developed over the coming years through the introduction of new skills from the market, the growth of its resources, and the consolidation and development of its know-how. Education, training and internal turnover paths for the acquisition of inter-functional skills confirm themselves to be of fundamental importance; • the personal growth, both through the internal development system and through active participation in the processes of company change, supported by internal communication CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // PEOPLE AND ORGANISATION and networking initiatives; • the “Migliora” Continuous Improvement Programme seeks to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of company activities and processes and implement initiatives that can lead to tangible returns in terms of economic benefits and quality of services offered; • the Italgas Digital Factory, a genuine factory of innovation, seeks to achieve the digitisation of the business processes and further the transformation of the processes within the Group. This is a work environment in which the multifunctional teams develop, on a parallel, IT solutions in Agile and Time-Boxed mode; • the realisation of the migration on cloud: in particular the process for the transfer on Cloud Azure (Microsoft) was concluded in November 2018 and concerned more than 5,000 devices (Personal Computers, iPads, smartphones and videoconference facilities, printers), around 100 applications, required the configuration of 1,000 servers, the moving of 100 Terabyte of data and involved around 200 ICT experts of Italgas and suppliers; • the up-dating and enhancement of the company intranet site for a greater divulgation and internal sharing of information on important strategies, programmes, initiatives and results. This up-date was important for making the company intranet an instrument accessible to all the employees. The internal portal was also enhanced with a new section entirely dedicated to sustainability and its meaning and value for Italgas; + 5,000 DEVICES AROUND 100 APPLICATIONS, REQUIRED The process for the transfer on Cloud Azure (Microsoft) was THE CONFIGURATION OF 1,000 SERVERS, concluded in November 2018 THE MOVING OF 100 TERABYTE 48 • the 2018-2019 company climate analysis at the same time as the collation of the questionnaires for all the Italgas group companies and for the subsequent processing of the first results. In the first few months of 2019, the Group will take steps to process the questionnaires and analyse the results so as to identify the related improvement action; • the the improvement of the working environment, procedures and working practices and continuous commitment to protect workers’ health, safety and well-being and to create conditions favourable to professional and human growth. This commitment also translates into a complex system of services and welfare that is constantly expanding so as to meet new needs and expectations; the system has become a pillar of the remuneration structure; • the Co-investment Plan: following the evolution of the legislation and the market practices applied within the national and international sphere, Italgas has maintained constant attention to the feedback and dialogue with the market by means of the furthering, with the support of the competent company units, of structured periodic meetings with the main proxy advisors and the institutional investors. The requests collected contributed towards the definition of the new managerial incentive system which introduced the Co-Investment Plan, as from 2018, CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // PEOPLE AND ORGANISATION which envisages the deferral of part of the bonus accrued annually, the introduction of equity instruments in the structure of the remuneration and the determination of the performance with objectives defined for the entire two-year vesting period; • the introduction of the Flexible Benefit Plan with the agreement on the 2017 production bonus; Italgas has offered the employees benefiting from the bonus the possibility of converting, at the voluntary choice of the employee, a portion of the Participation Bonus so as to access Welfare goods and services, for themselves or their family members, without any tax or contribution charge. Italgas has disbursed an additional Welfare Bonus equal to 18% of the converted portion, to all those which have chosen to convert their bonus into Welfare Credit; • definition of a new Industrial Relations protocol and on-going dialogue with workers’ representatives, through the industrial relations system, starting from the strategic directions pursued and their implications on work organisation. Italgas supports the internal sharing of the strategic lines and the objectives as well as the organisational change by means of a dedicated communication to company staff. The preferential channel was the direct one: in fact numerous meetings were held with the contribution and participation of the top management of the Group companies as well. 49 “LET’S TALK: YOUR OPINION COUNTS” The climate analysis intends to be a moment of feedback from the individuals for identifying the areas of improvement and introducing any solutions aimed at furthering the involvement of the employees for the achievement of the strategic objectives of the company and supporting the action for turning to account the Group’s human resources. By means of this analysis, the Group has the opportunity to measure the levels of motivation and involvement with respect to significant external benchmarks for Italgas and with respect to the previous 2015-2016 analysis, as well as achieve internal comparisons between the various organisational areas and between the various demographic characteristics. From the analysis of the results it is possible to identify the organisational conditions which encourage or hinder the involvement of the employees and highlight the areas of intervention for the improvement of the internal climate. In 2018, the survey was planned and handled with the support of a specialised outside company. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // PEOPLE AND ORGANISATION In an initial phase, it envisaged “virtual” focus groups created digitally with more than 200 individuals and interviews with management, aimed at the construction of the questionnaire (70 items). The questionnaire has been loaded on the intranet so as to be able to be compiled by means of various company devices (PCs, tablets, mobile phones) of the employees of all the Group companies. Around 3,600 individuals responded voluntarily and in anonymous form. 77% expressed their opinions on the various aspects proposed, providing precious contributions and insights for improvement. Optimum participation was achieved also with regard to the companies which only recently joined the Italgas group. The breakdown follows: • Italgas SpA 80% • Italgas Reti 74% • Italgas Acqua 86% • Medea 73% • SeaSide 100% In the first few months of 2019, the appointed outside company will process the analysis, returning the results which will represent the starting point for the definition of the improvement action. The various stages of the initiative are supported by diligent internal communication of objectives and results, both by management and by means of initiatives vehicled via the company intranet. EMPLOYMENT AND THE PROTECTION OF WORKERS’ RIGHTS As at 31 December 2018, the Italgas group had 3,614 employees (up with respect to the 3,584 in 2017). Specifically, 192 people joined the company in 2018, 120 of whom came directly from the job market, 21 returned to service from the Snam Group, 5 returned to service from leave and 46 from extraordinary transactions which led to the expansion of the scope. On the other hand, 162 people left the Group, of whom 127 for termination of the employment relationship and 35 for other reasons (mainly dismissal, resignation and leave). Overall, 12.4% of company employees are women, an increase with respect to the previous year. 96% of the company workforce is on a permanent contract, while apprenticeship contracts account for the remaining 4%, of which only 4 are fixed-term. The 24 apprenticeship contracts 50 which concluded during 2018 were transformed into permanent contracts. EMPLOYEES (HEADCOUNT) GRI STANDARD 102-8 Unit of 2016 2017 2018 measurement Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total Fixed-term contract no. 1 1 1 1 2 4 4 Northern Italy no. 1 1 1 1 2 4 4 Central Italy no. Southern Italy no. and Islands Permanent contract* no. 3,097 376 3,473 3,074 405 3,479 3,040 427 3,467 Northern Italy no. 1.224 216 1,440 1.232 246 1,478 1.219 262 1,481 Central Italy no. 890 62 952 884 60 944 853 55 908 Southern Italy no. 983 98 1,081 958 99 1,057 968 110 1,078 and Islands CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // PEOPLE AND ORGANISATION Apprenticeship/ internship (direct no. 89 7 96 93 10 103 123 20 143 employees) Northern Italy no. 41 7 48 56 9 65 59 17 76 Central Italy no. 43 43 28 1 29 33 3 36 Southern Italy no. 5 5 9 9 31 31 and Islands Total no. 3,187 383 3,570 3,168 416 3,584 3,167 447 3,614 (*) Fixedterm contracts also include part-time contracts EMPLOYEES (HEADCOUNT) GRI STANDARD 102-8 Unit of 2016 2017 2018 measurement Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total Part time no. 9 32 41 8 31 39 8 33 41 Fixed-term no. Permanent no. 9 32 41 8 31 39 8 33 41 Apprenticeship/internship no. Full time no. 3,178 351 3,529 3,160 385 3,545 3,159 414 3,573 Fixed-term no. 1 1 1 1 2 4 4 Permanent no. 3,088 344 3,432 3,066 374 3,440 3.032 394 3,426 Apprenticeship/internship no. 89 7 96 93 10 103 123 20 143 TURNOVER RATE* GRI STANDARD 401-1 Unit of 2016 2017 2018 measurement Men % 12.7 8.7 9.1 Women % 10.5 7.6 14.8 Northern Italy % 33.7 17.7 11.6 Central Italy % 20.1 14.5 8.9 Southern Italy and Islands % 8 5.7 8.02 Turnover rate % 12.7 8.7 9.8 (*) Calculated as: (incoming + outgoing)/average workforce *100 51 2018 saw continued searching and hiring from the job market of qualified personnel and junior resources with the objective of strengthening certain company areas, and continuing with the generational changeover programme. The hiring of graduates with different levels of experience involved both corporate management, with particular reference to the ICT area, and the technical and operational units of Italgas Reti (engineering, investment realisation, area technical services and plants). In the new Regional Centres, technical and network management activities also included the hiring of young qualified technicians (50% of total recruitment). At Group level, 45% of new recruits were in the regions of Central and Southern Italy. For the purpose of furthering and developing the female presence in-house also in the technical and operational areas which traditionally see a male predominance, specific recruitment sessions were dedicated to the search for female talent. The initiative, “IngegnerE, femminile plurale”, launched in 2018 also via the social media channels of the Company and which CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // PEOPLE AND ORGANISATION will continue in 2019, concerns the search for women with a Master’s degree in engineering (in particular the faculties of Engineering, Civil, Environment and Area, Managerial) and led to the employment of 11 young engineers introduced into the engineering, investments, plants and commercial development areas. The consolidation and development of the partnerships with a number of major Italian universities, allowed the company to acquire best practices, develop training courses of interest to it (regulatory system, economics, project management), and to take advantage of opportunities and recruiting services to introduce candidates to the Group or to offer, through specific agreements, company internships to carry out project work on topics of interest. During 2018, Italgas further extended its presence during the main Career Days, taking part in the initiatives promoted by Milan Polytechnic, Turin Polytechnic, Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore in Milan, LUISS Guido Carli in Rome and Ca’ Foscari in Venezia. In all the cases these were important opportunities for dialogue between young people and the Company and more generally so as to learn about the world of work, giving them some insight into the business and employment opportunities in their areas of activity. In 2018 Italgas also took part in the “Diversity Day” an initiative organised at national level and specifically dedicated to differently abled individuals and those belonging to protected categories, with the aim of facilitating access to the employment market. During all the initiatives described above, students and graduates spoke with Company line managers and HR managers about study paths and work interests, obtaining suggestions and advice for career development. The large number of graduates applying for a position at Italgas is important for the Company. 52 NEW HIRES (HEADCOUNT)* GRI STANDARD 401-1 Unit of 2016 2017 2018 measurement Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total Northern Italy no. 58 12 70 43 23 66 44 21 66 under 30 years of age no. 39 5 44 28 9 37 21 10 32 between 30 and 50 no. 17 7 24 15 14 29 23 11 34 years of age over 50 years of age no. 2 2 Central Italy no. 33 2 35 8 1 9 24 3 27 under 30 years of age no. 26 26 5 1 6 21 2 23 between 30 and 50 no. 6 2 8 2 2 3 3 years of age CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // PEOPLE AND ORGANISATION over 50 years of age no. 1 1 1 1 1 1 Southern Italy no. 7 7 6 6 27 27 under 30 years of age no. 4 4 6 6 25 25 between 30 and 50 no. 3 3 2 2 years of age over 50 years of age no. Total no. 98 14 112 57 24 81 95 25 120 under 30 years of age no. 69 5 74 39 10 49 67 13 80 between 30 and 50 no. 26 9 35 17 14 31 28 11 39 years of age over 50 years of age no. 3 3 1 1 1 1 (*) Only the entrants from the market are considered 53 TURNOVER RATE NEW HIRES* GRI STANDARD 401-1 Unit of 2016 2017 2018 measurement Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total Northern Italy % 5% 5% 5% 3% 9% 4% 4% 8% 4% under 30 years of age % 51% 42% 50% 31% 50% 34% 23% 50% 27% between 30 and 50 % 5% 9% 6% 4% 15% 6% 7% 10% 8% years of age over 50 years of age % 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% Central Italy % 4% 3% 4% 1% 2% 1% 3% 5% 3% under 30 years of age % 41% n.a. 41% 8% 100% 9% 27% 67% 28% between 30 and 50 % 4% 11% 5% 2% 0% 1% 3% 0% 2% years of age CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // PEOPLE AND ORGANISATION over 50 years of age % 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 2% 0% Southern Italy % 1% 0% 1% 1% 0% 1% 3% 0% 2% under 30 years of age % 19% n.a. 19% 27% 0% 27% 56% 0% 54% between 30 and 50 % 1% 0% 1% 0% 0% 0% 1% 0% 1% years of age over 50 years of age % 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% Total % 3.1% 3.7% 3.1% 1.8% 5.8% 2.3% 3.0% 5.4% 3.3% under 30 years of age % 42.9% 41.7% 42.8% 21.9% 52.6% 24.9% 30.9% 54.2% 32.8% between 30 and 50 % 3.6% 7.2% 4.1% 2.6% 10.4% 3.9% 4.5% 7.5% 5.1% years of age over 50 years of age % 0.1% 0.0% 0.1% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.4% 0.0% (*) Calculated as: new recruits/employees as at 31 December 2018 54 EMPLOYEES LEAVERS (HEADCOUNT)* GRI STANDARD 401-1 Unit of 2016 2017 2018 measurement Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total Northern Italy no. 19 19 72 9 81 70 15 85 under 30 years of age no. 3 3 5 1 6 between 30 and 50 no. 3 3 4 4 6 3 9 years of age over 50 years of age no. 16 16 65 9 74 59 11 70 Central Italy no. 24 24 35 6 41 52 2 54 under 30 years of age no. 1 1 between 30 and 50 no. 2 2 1 1 years of age CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // PEOPLE AND ORGANISATION over 50 years of age no. 22 22 33 6 39 52 2 54 Southern Italy no. 21 2 23 20 20 under 30 years of age no. 1 1 between 30 and 50 no. 1 1 1 1 years of age over 50 years of age no. 19 2 21 19 19 Total no. 44 1 45 128 17 145 142 17 159 under 30 years of age no. 5 5 5 1 6 between 30 and 50 no. 5 5 6 6 7 3 10 years of age over 50 years of age no. 39 1 40 117 17 134 130 13 143 (*) Consensual termination and other leavers 55 TURNOVER RATE LEAVERS* GRI STANDARD 401-1 Unit of 2016 2017 2018 measurement Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total Northern Italy % 2% 0% 1% 6% 4% 5% 5% 5% 5% under 30 years of age % 0% 0% 0% 3% 0% 3% 5% 5% 5% between 30 and 50 % 1% 0% 1% 1% 0% 1% 2% 3% 2% years of age over 50 years of age % 2% 0% 2% 8% 6% 8% 7% 7% 7% Central Italy % 3% 0% 2% 4% 10% 4% 6% 3% 6% under 30 years of age % 0% n.a. 0% 2% 0% 2% 0% 0% 0% between 30 and 50 % 1% 0% 1% 1% 0% 1% 0% 0% 0% years of age CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // PEOPLE AND ORGANISATION over 50 years of age % 3% 0% 3% 5% 14% 5% 7% 5% 7% Southern Italy % 0% 0% 0% 2% 2% 2% 2% 0% 2% under 30 years of age % 0% n.a. 0% 5% 0% 5% 0% 0% 0% between 30 and 50 % 0% 0% 0% 1% 0% 0% 1% 0% 1% years of age over 50 years of age % 0% 0% 0% 2% 3% 2% 2% 0% 2% Total % 1.4% 0.3% 1.3% 4.0% 4.1% 4.1% 4.5% 3.8% 4.4% under 30 years of age % 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 2.8% 0.0% 0.1% 2.3% 4.2% 2.5% between 30 and 50 % 0.7% 0.0% 0.1% 0.9% 0.0% 0.2% 1.1% 2.0% 1.3% years of age over 50 years of age % 1.7% 0.4% 1.1% 5.0% 6.5% 3.7% 5.6% 4.7% 5.5% (*) Calculated as: leavers/employees as at 31 December 2018 DEVELOPMENT AND ENHANCEMENT OF HUMAN CAPITAL TRAINING PROGRAMMES Training in Italgas is aimed at ensuring the enhancement of the skills required by business strategies. Each professional family and new resources receive dedicated training. Specialist know-how, typical of technicians and manual workers, is transferred and promoted through the development of specific skills in network and system maintenance activities. The specific training courses for the various professional figures during 2018 were implemented by means of providing 39 courses in 70 editions for a total of more than 950 participants and around 11,000 hours of training. The team of about thirty trainers, selected from among company experts and specialists, ensured the teaching and sharing of critical knowledge for this purpose. The launch of the training to support the Digital Transformation programmes of the company undertook particular importance during 2018, in relation to which the following were organised: 56 • training measures on the new technological scenarios and the main applications of interest for gas distribution were dedicated to management, the middle managers included in development courses and young graduates (around 670 hours and 200 participations); • specific change management and training initiatives for the resources of the ICT area, also by means of innovative team building and networking methods (4 dedicated initiatives, 181 participations, 1,424 hours); • training dedicated to the resources involved in the more innovative digitisation projects pertaining to the new Italgas Digital Factory launched in November, with particular reference to the roles and the Agile method (41 participations, 962 hours); • training on new technological platforms dedicated to the workers of the Italgas contact centre (19 participations, 152 hours); • intercompany course in US Silicon Valley focused on the aspects of Innovation and Digital Transformation dedicated to a group of managers and experts from the group (6 participations, 240 hours); • internal communication and training initiatives on objectives, methodology, ICT equipment CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // PEOPLE AND ORGANISATION and services made available by the company, as well as health and safety aspects linked to smart working (411 participations and 1,402 hours provided) to support the extension and consolidation of Smart Working as the new way of working. Project-based courses and initiatives saw their involvement in the new Turin Training Campus which, thanks to the development of its structures, or rather classrooms and external spaces for in-the-field exercises, represents the ideal context, not only for the learning processes, but also for integration and networking between colleagues from different area offices. In 2018, a total of more than 67,500 hours of training were provided and each employee averaged approximately 19 hours of training on at least 2 different training courses throughout the year. 19 HOURS OF TRAINING PER A TOTAL OF MORE THAN 67,500 EMPLOYEE ON AT LEAST 2 HOURS OF TRAINING DIFFERENT TRAINING COURSES 57 Besides the matters already described, the main training programmes developed in 2018 were the following: •  Induction of new recruits: the training course dedicated to young graduates introduced into the Group was continued and extended, with specific measures on history, culture and skills, identity values and elements of Italgas; strategies and business lines, the Group’s history and culture, distribution techniques and operations with on-site visits to expand knowledge of construction sites and plants, budgeting of planned and final investment costs, safety, commercial quality and technical standards, business economics and finance basics, teamwork. When achieving the training measures, in-house teaching was favoured, with company managers involved to share their personal and working experience with their newly-hired colleagues. •  Young Graduates Programme: in 2018 the analytical module on the economic-strategic logics of the markets regulated within Italgas was overhauled in collaboration with MIP CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // PEOPLE AND ORGANISATION Milan Polytechnic, enhancing the course with experiences and business cases and looking in-depth at the economic aspects on the main Key Performance Indicators of interest for the Italgas business. The programme also envisaged a specific module on the reference framework, analysis of the lines of Italgas’s Digital Transformation Programme and an overview of the first experiments launched in the Network, seen to by the Company’s Top Management. •  Middle Management under development programme: within the sphere of the programme dedicated to Middle Management under development (around 40 individuals), in 2018 an advanced training module was planned and provided on the economic-strategic logic within Italgas, in collaboration with SDA Bocconi. The theoretical training was accompanied by inter-functional work groups with the assignment of analysis for the purpose of creating advanced reporting of interest and use for the Group and encouraging team working. A module on the new economic scenarios and on the impact of the digitisation in the economic-financial areas of the main organisations was also envisaged in this programme. • L eadership al femminile: da gennaio 2018 Italgas è diventata socio sostenitore di Valore D, associazione di imprese che ha la finalità di favorire e valorizzare lo sviluppo del talento femminile e di una cultura d’impresa inclusiva nelle aziende associate. Nell’ambito delle iniziative di valorizzazione della diversità di genere, di generazioni e culture diverse, 25 colleghe e colleghi hanno partecipato ai programmi di formazione interaziendale e ai laboratori finalizzati a sviluppare capacità di leadership inclusiva. •  Female leadership: as from January 2018 Italgas became the sponsoring partner of Valore D, an association of businesses which has the purpose of encouraging and turning to account the development of female talent and of an inclusive business culture in the associated companies. Within the sphere of the valorisation initiatives of the diversity of gender, generations and different cultures, 25 colleagues took part in intercompany training programmes and workshops aimed at developing inclusive leadership abilities. •  Lean Six Sigma – Yellow and Green Belt: during 2018, the training commitment continued to support the on-going improvement path of the business processes by means of the realisation of specific initiatives aimed at providing method-based elements structured on basic and advanced concepts of the Six Sigma method. Basic (Yellow Belt) and advanced (Green Belt) level training paths were in fact created, in partnership with the MP Milan 58 Polytechnic, which led to the certification of 53 and 24 colleagues respectively, for a total of more than 2 thousand hours of training provided. •  Safety at the wheel programme: with a view to Italgas’s constant attention to the prevention of road accidents and those occurring to and from work, once again in 2018 the “Safe Driving” programme continued, developed in collaboration with ASC Quattroruote. Around 300 Italgas colleagues (executives, middle managers, office workers and blue collars) took part in the training initiative, for a total of 2,384 hours, dedicated to acquiring greater control of the vehicle in emergency situations, by means of the practical experimentation of the situations which may most frequently occur when driving. The programme falls within the framework of the training initiatives regarding safety realised in collaboration with the HSEQ unit. •  Training for the Integrated Supervision Centre: specific training and refresher measures were realised for the operators of the Integrated Supervision Centre with the purpose of increasing the effectiveness and efficiency of the services carried out by the Emergency CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // PEOPLE AND ORGANISATION Assistance call centre. The beneficiaries of the training were 38 operators of the Integrated Supervision Centre, for the purpose of ensuring the operations and the shifts of the call centre. The training was personalised on specific company cases, appropriately modulating the theoretical part and the practical part; the latter was realised by means of the simulation of phone calls. •  GIS4GAS: during 2018 221 employees were provided with a module for specific analysis on the new company map system, GIS4GAS, for a total of more than 4,700 hours, dealings with topics such as map up-dating and establishment, fluid dynamics set-up, planning and verification of the network, leak detection and electrical protection. Furthermore, training continued in 2018 with regard to refresher activities for workers on safety in the workplace, as per the State /Regions Agreement, by means of the presentation of the up-dated version of the “Safety instructions for the operating activities of the gas distribution network”, known as the “Blue Book” by Italgas workers. The refresher activities involved 1,225 employees for 7,350 hours of training provided. In conclusion, a specific training programme was planned and provided for all the technical staff of the companies Acam Gas and Enerco, incorporated during 2018 The programme focused on the technical training modules, on the information systems and the Italgas procedures with the aim of bridging specific information gaps. The programme envisaged around 230 participations for over 2,000 hours of training. The companies Seaside and Medea were involved in a total of more than 750 hours of training, for a total of 73 participations. The average hours of training, equal to 19 in 2018, were up with respect to those carried out in the previous year. In particular there was a rising trend for middle managers (from 22 average hours in 2017 to 27 in 2018) and for blue-collar workers (from 15 average hours in 2017 to 18 in 2018) and a decreasing trend for executives (from 41 average hours in 2017 to 21 in 2018) and for office workers (from 20 average hours in 2017 to 18 in 2018). In particular during the year, the hours of training on quality, safety and environmental aspects increased by 47% compared with 2017. 59 TRAINING GRI STANDARD 404-1 Unit of measurement 2016 2017 2018 Total training hours delivered Hour 113,115 66,000 67,537 to women Hour 6,223 5,945 5,364 to men Hour 106,892 60,055 62,173 Breakdown of training hours provided Unit of mea2016 2017 2018 by subject matter and type surement Training on HSEQ topics (*) Hour 29,026 20,700 30,441 participants no. 5,721 3,049 4,382 Training on the Code of Ethics Model 231 anti-corruption anti trust regulatory Hour 3,030 899 209 system UNI ISO CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // PEOPLE AND ORGANISATION participants no. 1,505 331 78 Management Training Hour 3,288 14,038 11,595 participants no. 335 3,200 1,470 Technical /specialised training Hour 75,795 30,363 25,292 participants no. 6,496 2,595 2,580 (*) All health and safety training courses were organised and provided in accordance with the provisions of the State-Regions Agreement of 21 December 2011. AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING PROVIDED PER PROFESSIONAL CATEGORY* GRI STANDARD 404-1 Unit of measurement 2016 2017 2018 Men Women Total Total employees Hours / No. 20 12 19 Executives Hours / No. 18 34 21 Middle Managers Hours / No. 28 24 27 Office workers Hours / No. 20 10 18 Blue-collar workers Hours / No. 18 14 18 (*) Data may include multiple participations per individual participant. 60 DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMMES The personal and professional growth of the resources is the fundamental cornerstone of Italgas’s three-pillar commitment: •  managerial skills system, which considers the pro-active attitude, future orientation, interpersonal skills and leadership of each individual; •  performance management, intended as the step of evaluating and collecting feedback from people’s own work, in order to combine professional and business objectives; •  potential of every individual, which considers continuous assessment and the provision of adequate incentives as essential to help people strive for excellence. During 2018, on the basis of the Italgas three-year Development System defined for all the Group companies, various paths have been activated for the various categories of population involved. For the young graduates included since 2010 and with at least two years of company seniority, CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // PEOPLE AND ORGANISATION a two-year development path has been created and activated, the first basic module for all was a Junior and Expert Development Center lasting two days aimed at the assessment and development of the characteristics of managerial potential. The Development Center campaign took place in nine editions for a total of 71 individuals involved. Downstream from the participation of each participant, an encounter was dedicated for the sharing of the development profile with HR and the direct manager. The second module envisages the participation in a Junior and Expert development workshop by means of the Self Empowerment method. The workshop is structured in two sessions of two days each, in which the participants carry out the activities in small work groups. During 2018 five editions of the first session were held (43 individuals involved) and in 2019 another three editions are envisaged along with the completion of the programme with all the second sessions. The Young Engineers Project activated in 2017 continues, involving 16 new hires, including 6 women, in a three-year placement and growth program that envisages: • annual job rotation within the Regional Centres and the technical staff functions defined on the basis of the characteristics and the motivation of the youngsters as well as the business needs; • training and coaching by senior colleagues achieved by means of the supervision of a tutor; • assessment of the performances carried out on a six-monthly basis with manager-worker feedback interview and interview regard to potential. For all the executives, middle managers and young graduates (a total of 406 individuals), internal mapping has been carried out with regard to potential and performance according to the 9Box method, which has involved all the area directors and unit heads. The mapping of the various clusters has made it possible to identify the individuals to be included in role development activities and the individuals to valorise by means of accelerated development programmes. With regard to the younger middle managers identified in the cluster of the accelerated development, a two-year managerial development course has been created entitled Italgas Leadership Way. With regard to these employees, besides the training already described in the dedicated section of this document, the two-day Senior Development Center programme followed aimed at the assessment and the development of the managerial potential characteristics; the programme took place by means of group or individual editions. 61 The mapping of the managerial potential of the executives employed in 2017 took place in 2018, also for the purpose of up-dating the Succession Planning. Furthermore, a number of individual Coaching courses were activated supporting the executives who during the year acquired roles of greater responsibility. In conclusion, a specific programme was activated devoted to the manager-worker feedback instrument which in 2019 will be extended to the executives and the middle managers responsible for resources, and will be structured by means of experience-based Workshops in small groups. On a parallel, training measures will be achieved dedicated to the sharing and the development of the Italgas Model of the Managerial Skills. The various activities for the assessment and support of the development of the potential have provided elements useful for the definition of the job rotation and career evolution plans for the resources undergoing development (36 individuals affected by job rotation during the year). CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // PEOPLE AND ORGANISATION COMPENSATION SYSTEMS Italgas places great emphasis on employee commitment and performance using differentiated compensation policies based on performance and professional and managerial skills, taking into account: • the responsibilities assigned; • the results achieved; • the quality of people’s professional contribution and development potential. The compensation systems are periodically updated based on a comparison with the reference pay markets and criteria inspired by meritocracy and internal equity. Specifically, these systems seek to ensure recognition of results achieved, the quality of professional contributions made and people’s potential for development. In 2018, the performance assessment involved 90 individuals: 57 executives (of which 4 women), 19 non executives (all men), 14 Seaside (of which 4 women). DIVERSITY AND WELFARE The development of human capital also involves the enhancement of diversity and respect for each individual. This requires zero tolerance for any type of discrimination, regardless of whether it is based on ethnic, sexual, political, religious, health or age grounds, while at the same time ensuring equal opportunities in all phases and for all aspects of the employment. In line with this approach, the Group despite the type of operating activities carried out is committed to consolidating female presence within the company. Proof of this commitment lies in the 44% of new recruits involving young women graduates. Overall, female presence represents around 12%, a percentage on the up of which 19% relates to the executive area and 15% to the managerial area (Executives and Middle Managers). 62 EMPLOYEES (HEADCOUNT) GRI STANDARD 405-1 Unit of 2016 2017 2018 measurement Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total Executives no. 49 7 56 49 11 60 46 11 57 under 30 years of age no. between 30 and 50 no. 10 5 15 11 10 21 11 10 21 years of age over 50 years of age no. 39 2 41 38 1 39 35 1 36 Middle Managers no. 208 29 237 219 32 251 234 39 273 under 30 years of age no. 2 2 between 30 and 50 no. 39 9 48 50 10 60 63 15 78 years of age CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // PEOPLE AND ORGANISATION over 50 years of age no. 167 20 187 169 22 191 171 24 195 Office workers no. 1,553 343 1,896 1,569 369 1,938 1,571 394 1,965 under 30 years of age no. 93 12 105 115 19 134 121 24 145 between 30 and 50 no. 311 110 421 284 114 398 278 121 399 years of age over 50 years of age no. 1,149 221 1,370 1,170 236 1,406 1,172 249 1,421 Blue-collar workers no. 1,377 4 1,381 1,331 4 1,335 1,316 3 1,319 under 30 years of age no. 66 66 63 63 99 99 between 30 and 50 no. 369 1 370 312 1 313 265 1 266 years of age over 50 years of age no. 942 3 945 956 3 959 952 2 954 Total no. 3,187 383 3,570 3,168 416 3,584 3,167 447 3,614 EMPLOYEES (HEADCOUNT) STANDARD GRI 405-1 Unit of 2016 2017 2018 measurement Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total Employees belonging no. 155 27 182 147 25 172 138 25 163 to protected categories EMPLOYEES BY LEVEL OF EDUCATION Unit of 2016 2017 2018 measurement Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total High School no. 1,562 206 1,768 1,541 243 1,784 1,601 232 1,833 diploma-holders Graduates no. 257 93 350 325 84 409 324 140 464 Other (no high school no. 1,368 84 1,452 1,311 80 1,391 1,242 75 1,317 diploma) Total no. 3,187 383 3,570 3,177 407 3,584 3,167 447 3,614 63 EMPLOYEES BY AVERAGE LENGTH OF SERVICE Unit of 2016 2017 2018 measurement Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total Average age no. 52 51 52 53 51 53 52 50 52 of employees (age) Average length no. 26 26 26 27 25 27 27 24 26 of service (years) WOMEN / MEN PAY GAP BASIC SALARY* GRI STANDARD 405-2 Unit of measurement 2016 2017 2018 Men Women Total Executives % 82.0 81.1 85.2 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // PEOPLE AND ORGANISATION Middle Managers % 94.5 93.1 92.8 Office workers % 98.6 97.5 97.4 Blue-collar workers % 74.2 76.7 74.7 WOMEN / MEN PAY GAP AVERAGE REMUNERATION13* GRI STANDARD 405-2 Executives % 63.3 75.0 80.0 Middle Managers % 92.5 89.7 90.3 Office workers % 92.8 92.7 93.1 Blue-collar workers % 65.3 77.7 68.0 (*)The figures do not include Seaside and Medea To protect and promote the well-being of the employees, Italgas provides services and initiatives aimed at ensuring work-life balance. Specifically, the Welfare programme takes into consideration family and childcare requirements, ensuring a good psycho-physical health, the handling of daily chores in terms of time and money and the organisation of leisure activities and artistic-cultural initiatives. Starting with the results of the internal survey on the subject of Welfare carried out in 2017 on the entire company population, in 2018 various initiatives were achieved with the aim of more efficiently communicating the services offered (reorganisation of the website, Mobile App, Single Sign-on, videoclips, newsletters, brochures delivered to home). In line with the matters envisaged by the 2017 Budget Law, in 2018 Italgas launched the first “Flexible Benefit” plan which envisages the possibility of converting the Production Bonus into Welfare services (pensions/social welfare, family care, support for studies, mobility, leisure time). Each employee who complies voluntarily with the Plan is offered a “Bonus” by Italgas equal to 18% of the portion of bonus converted into Welfare Credit. 13_Average remuneration: basic salary raised by increases, such as those for length of service, bonuses in cash or securities, benefits, paid overtime, payments for unused holiday entitlement or any other form of indemnity (e.g. transport, board/lodging costs and those for child care services). 64 MILAN OFFICE: AN OPEN WORK SPACE Italgas is based in Milan in Via Carlo Bo 11, in the building called Parallelo, where top management and the Holding functions (Legal, HR, Finance, Real Estate, ICT, External Relations) are based. The building extends horizontally, the offices are all on one floor, and this facilitates relations and communication between the various functions. From an energy standpoint, the building is highly efficient (Class A certification), thanks to the heat and geothermic pumps which it is equipped with and a photovoltaic plant and solar heating plant, which permit a saving of 26% on the overall energy cost. These improvement initiatives made it possible to obtain compliance with the Welfare Plan of over 21% with respect to 2017. Furthermore, the Italgas welfare offer was further enhanced during 2018 with the creation of the first Company Gym ItalGym, and the crush bars, within the Milan offices reserves for the employees. Both the initiatives are also envisaged for the other management offices within the sphere of the CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // PEOPLE AND ORGANISATION property renovation projects. 2018 was also the year of the first ItalgaSnow, the ski competition dedicated to Italgas employees. The Welfare portal, in collaboration with the HSEQ unit, was used to allow the employees benefiting from the Zero Infortuni Bonus, to avail of their bonus in purchased vouchers to be used for the purchase of selected national brands belonging to a wide range of commodity categories. PARENTAL LEAVE GRI STANDARD 401-314 Unit of 2016 2017 2018 measurement Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total Total open positions no. 208 31 239 261 48 309 246 53 299 Positions opened no. 34 4 38 31 2 33 13 3 16 in the year Positions closed no. 174 27 201 230 46 276 233 50 283 in the year due to return to work no. 170 27 197 190 41 231 227 49 276 due to termination of no. 4 4 40 5 45 6 1 7 employment INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS During 2018 the relationship between Italgas and the Trade Unions saw the involvement and participation of the structures at national, area and company level. In December an Italgas group industrial relations Protocol was signed which ratifies a new phase of trade union relations marked by transparency and dialogue, defining the prerogatives and the scopes of action with regard to Company, national trade union and Single Trade Union Reps (R.S.U.). The parties committed themselves to proceed with the renewal of the R.S.U.’s on the basis of the new organisational model within the first half of 2019. Significant agreements were reached with regard to employment, in particular at national level the signing of accords was achieved which define and implement certain important aspects 14_Data on parental leave refers to the L. 53/2000. 65 which directly affect the daily operations of the workers, such as for example availability (on-call), shift end and the working hours in the various company units. Further agreements entered into during the year concerned: • the Group “Participation Bonus” which, in continuity with last year, takes into account and implements the possibilities of fruition of the services envisaged in the Welfare plan of the Italgas group; • the permanent confirmation of Smart Working and its extension to the technical staff of Italgas Reti; • the various extraordinary corporate transactions. SMART WORKING Introduced experimentally in 2017 for the staff areas of the corporate area with the involvement of around 150 individuals, in 2018 Smart Working (or Flexi Working) was extended further to CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // PEOPLE AND ORGANISATION new staff colleagues and likewise individuals of Italgas Reti belonging to the following Divisions: Commercial Development, Measurement, Engineering and Investment Realisation, Technical Services, Technological Innovation and HSEQ. The extension to the technical staff areas was preceded by the involvement of the staff by means of a specific survey and by an organisational analysis agreed with the line manager which made it possible to identify activities to which this new work organisation model is applicable, a model which permits the performance of part of the work activities outside the company premises with the following objectives: • improve the working methods of the staff already based in the area; •  increase the involvement of the individuals with respect to the achievement of the objectives; •  stimulate digital innovation and the use of information technology; •  foster a more open and collaborative management culture geared towards delegation and creating a sense of responsibility; •  boost job satisfaction; •  help reconcile work and family life; •  increase sustainability by reducing travel between home and office and between different company locations. The extension and consolidation of the new organisational model were supported by internal communication campaigns and specific training measures on objectives, methodology, ICT equipment and services made available by the company and on health and safety aspects. There were 411 participations for 1,402 total hours of training. To-date, the voluntary participations are 365, of which 215 in the staff areas of Italgas S.p.A. Thanks to a new trade union agreement entered into at the end of 2018, the experimental phase was concluded and Smart Working was confirmed as fully operative. On the subject of Smart Working, during 2018 Italgas participated in the Flexi Work Week furthered by the Milan Municipal Authority in collaboration with various entities in employment circles, with the aim of promoting innovative work models, improving the organisational wellbeing and the private life/work reconciliation. Specifically, participating in the “Adotta un’impresa” venture, Italgas accommodated the team of a company interested in launching Smart Working internally, transferring its projects, experiences and results achieved 66 In 2018, 92 meetings were held with Trade Union Organisations, of which 21 at national level and 71 at local level. The figure highlights the increasing involvement of the representations at area level in consideration of the information and negotiation processes triggered by the implement of the new Italgas Reti organisation model, as well as the matters envisaged by the Group Industrial Relations Protocol. At the end of 2018, the percentage of employees who are members of a trade union organisation was 50%. COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS GRI STANDARD 102-41 Unit of measurement 2016 2017 2018 Number of employees covered by the National Collective Labour Agreement no. 3,570 3,529 3,614 (CCNL) Total employees no. 3,570 3,584 3,614 Percentage of employees covered CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // PEOPLE AND ORGANISATION % 100% 98% 100% by collective bargaining agreements The legal disputes with employees and former employees was as a rule stable over time, with a light rise during 2018 due to the increase in the disciplinary measures issued vis-à-vis the employees. The main cases concern job level and corresponding remuneration differences and financial claims of various kinds and appeals against disciplinary measures imposed, including suspension or dismissal. EMPLOYMENT DISPUTES15 Unit of measurement 2016 2017 2018 Disputes opened in the year no. 22 13 18 Disputes closed in the year no. 35 21 15 Total disputes pending at 31 Dec. no. 23 18 21 (employees and former employees) 15_No cases of employee or former employee disputes have been registered within Italgas S.p.A. or in the other Companies. 67 68 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // SOCIAL ASPECT OF THE BUSINESS SOCIAL ASPECTS OF THE BUSINESS RELEVANCE TO ITALGAS’ ACTIVITIES CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // SOCIAL ASPECT OF THE BUSINESS The main material issues related to the social impacts generated by the performance of the activities refer to: • Reliability, quality and safety of the service; • Relations with the Regulatory Authority; • Innovation and digitisation; • Transparent relations and partnership with sales companies; • Social innovation and relationship with the regions concerned. For Italgas service quality goes far beyond simple business objectives: continuity, safety, accessibility, rapid response and overall system efficiency truly reflect Italgas commitment towards the areas served and the end customers. In this respect, the Group pays particular attention to strengthening relations with the sales companies, to harmonise the processes and update the tools and procedures that enable access to the services. Operational and commercial activities are carried out with increasingly advanced IT systems that allow fast information flows in contract management. These systems are regularly updated according to the regulations issued by the Italian Regulatory Authority for Energy, Networks and Environment (ARERA), which regulates the services provided by the Italgas group companies. The digitisation of business networks and processes is the primary challenge that Italgas is facing and will face in the coming years. An example of this is the smart meter installation plan; the installation of sensors spread throughout the Italian network to manage the network using innovative methods, criteria and algorithms; the simplification and digitisation of business processes through the use of innovative technologies. In line with the sustainable development model and its strategic growth plans, Italgas invests in the areas in which it operates, promoting social, cultural and environmental initiatives. In carrying out these actions, Italgas interfaces with its stakeholders using criteria of transparency, fairness and impartiality, confirming its commitment to the values of dialogue, cooperation and concern for the environment. 69 POLICIES AND COMMITMENTS TO MONITOR THE ISSUE The operational management of quality aspects is regulated through the ISO 9001 certified management systems and is implemented in each individual company. To support the safety and quality of the service, Italgas has set up two freephone numbers that members of the public and users can contact depending on what they need: • Freephone number for Gas Emergencies – 800 900 999. The service is active 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. There is one Freephone Number for the whole of Italy for all the Municipalities where the distribution companies of the Italgas group operate and is shown separately on the gas bill of the sales company, on the websites of Italgas and the Group companies and in the telephone directories of the municipalities served. The Italian Regulatory Authority for Energy, Networks and Environment (ARERA) regulates the service. When calling the Rapid CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // SOCIAL ASPECT OF THE BUSINESS Response Service, an operator of the Integrated Supervision Centres replies and the call is never diverted to another number. The calls will be answered and employees reply within a few seconds. Upon receipt of an alert, the operators provide the initial instruction on how to behave in the event of a gas leak, outage or irregularities in the flow, dispersions, and malfunctions in the district heating service in the municipality of Cologno Monzese. At the same time, the Rapid Response Unit is activated for any necessary verification and technical operations, to safeguard citizens, to ensure the safety of plants and the resumption of normal service conditions in the shortest possible time. Technical assistance is free. • Freephone number Contact Centre 800 915 150. Operational Monday to Friday from 8 am to 8 pm; the freephone number is the same in all the municipalities in which Italgas Reti DO YOU NEED TO REPLACE YOUR METER, REPORT A FAULT operates and is visibly displayed on Italgas website and in telephone OR OTHER INFORMATION? directories of the municipalities served. The Italian Regulatory CALL OUR CUSTOMER SERVICE Authority for Energy, Networks and Environment (ARERA) regulates the service. The Contact Centre service managed entirely by internal ON 800 915 150 staff based in Italy, responds through IVR and operators. By contacting the freephone number, users can change the appointment for the meter replacement, obtain information on gas distribution and general information. The Contact Centre service also serves sales companies working with Italgas. Italgas has equipped itself with the Contact Center to improve the quality of the service and be closer to the end user, rationalising and integrating the existing contact channels into a single system. This tool creates a single point of contact in which cases are taken care of and recorded and constitute the database useful for the development and launch of activities aimed at continuous service improvement. To respond to user requests, Italgas also provides its own social media channels and the CCWeb service, within the website, for changing the appointment to replace the traditional meter with a smart meter. 70 ACTIVITIES AND RESULTS RELIABILITY, QUALITY AND SAFETY OF THE SERVICE Every year Italgas inspects tens of thousands of kilometres of network to ensure the efficiency of the gas distribution network. In this regard, as part of steel pipes inspections, in 2018 monitoring of the cathodic protection was carried out, which remotely detects the “electrical protection” parameters on approximately 10,500 significant points of the network (+12.9% compared to 2017), and about 24,300 specific measurements of cathodic protection were carried out on non-remote controlled points (+9.5% compared to 2017)16. QUALITY STANDARDS ESTABLISHED BY ARERA GRI STANDARD 416-1 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // SOCIAL ASPECT OF THE BUSINESS Unit ARERA 2016 2017 2018 of measurement Target Highand medium-pressure networks % >100 53 48,7 70,2 subject to inspection* Low-pressure networks subject to % >100 55,4 49,1 74,4 inspection ** Compliance with the maximum time for reaching the call-out site for emergency % >90 96,1 96,2 97,7 assistance * The target is measured by considering the sum of the percentage quantities achieved in the last three years ** The target is measured by considering the sum of the percentage quantities achieved in the last four years To perform this important activity, in addition to traditional flame ionisation or semiconductor devices, advanced technology instruments are used, such as laser detectors that provide greater selectivity, resolution and work capacity. In 2018, the percentage of dispersion searches in the total network increased significantly. In 2018, a new dispersion search methodology was successfully tested using CRDS (Cavity Ring-Down Spectroscopy) technology based on laser absorption spectroscopy, which is an evolution of the laser systems currently used: this technology allows the detection of buried and above-ground dispersions. The average maximum arrival time at the emergency call point in 2018 improved by 1.5% compared to 2017. In support of the network safety, in 2018 the plan for the replacement of grey cast iron pipes with hempand lead-sealed joints and with mechanical joints continued; in addition to increasing safety levels, they contribute to reducing gas emissions into the atmosphere. At 31/12/2018 only 14 km of grey cast iron still have hemp and lead joints in the city of Rome, which will be removed during 2019. Improving performance in terms of technical and commercial quality depends on the technological component that is provided to both customers and operating personnel. 16_Data include Italgas Reti SpA. Medea SpA, Fontenergia 7 Srl and Fontenergia 9 Srl are excluded. 71 In this respect, Italgas is committed to the progressive replacement of gas meters with new generation digital equipment (smart meters) with new functionalities. This activity is carried out in compliance with the provisions issued by ARERA, which set the objectives for the commissioning of new meters differentiated by size. In the year 2018 alone, 1.9 million were installed. The target is to complete the replacement of all traditional meters by early 2020 (compared to the ARERA target of 85% by end 2020). The entire fleet of smart meters and the digitised network, with a multitude of sensors distributed, will allow us to measure and monitor gas consumption more accurately, prevent failures and dispersions and manage maintenance on a predictive basis, significantly improving service efficiency and quality: the traditional distribution network will thus acquire a new digital identity. More generally, the technical-commercial activities carried out at the end customers following specific quality standards established by ARERA, concern the estimate and execution of the works, the activation and deactivation of gas supply, in accordance with the appointments made CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // SOCIAL ASPECT OF THE BUSINESS and with rapid response times, and finally odourisation checks. QUALITY STANDARDS ESTABLISHED BY ARERA GRI STANDARD 416-117 Unit ARERA 2016 2017 2018 of measurement Target Compliance with the maximum time set for services subject to specific % 100% 97.6 97.7 97.7 commercial quality standards Punctuality in appointments arranged % 100% 98.3 98.3 99.0 with end customers To continually improve service quality indexes, Italgas has established structured relationships with various consumer associations on an equal footing and mutually beneficial. After extensive preparatory work that began in 2017, Italgas and 19 of the 20 Consumer Associations recognised by the CNCU (Italian National Council of Consumers and Users) formalised, at the Ministry of Economic Development, a Memorandum of Understanding to improve the service that Italgas provides constantly. In this context, the agreement aims to make consumers increasingly aware and informed about the correct use of energy resources and the service they receive. In the protocol, particular importance was given to the programme for replacing traditional gas meters with smart meters, the latest generation of meters designed for remote reading that can thus constantly monitor consumption without the need to access the meter, and forms of cooperation to limit the number of complaints and for the prompt management of consumer association reports of outages. In application of the Protocol, Italgas and the associations cooperate in specific regional campaigns, such as the move over to methane of isolated networks that previously used LPG or unforeseen events of particular importance, to limit the potential adverse effects on the consumer. In particular, the smart meter installation programme concerns all 7.5 million users served by the Italgas group. Despite the Group’s economic, technical and organisational commitment, the size and complexity of the programme may lead to some unintended outages, and it is in this context that the agreement aims to identify the best forms of cooperation to mitigate the phenomenon and handle any reports. 17_This perimeter includes Italgas Reti SpA and LPG distribution networks managed by the Group. Medea SpA, Fontenergia 7 Srl and Fontenergia 9 Srl are excluded. 72 INNOVATION AND DIGITISATION Innovation and digitisation are key factors and strategic priorities for the Italgas group. In the 2018-24 strategic plan, the company has planned major investments in innovation and digitisation of networks and processes to furnish the traditional distribution network with a new “digital identity” that will enable it to more accurately measure and monitor gas consumption, prevent failures and leaks and manage maintenance on a predictive basis, significantly improving the efficiency and quality of the service. In particular, a significant share of investments in the three-year period 2016-18 (500 million euros) was allocated to innovation and the digitisation of the network. Digital technologies are also transforming the way Italgas technicians work, allowing them to perform various activities on the move that until recently required a presence on site. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // SOCIAL ASPECT OF THE BUSINESS In 2018 the Go2Cloud Project was launched and completed to make the company’s digital transformation possible. This led to the migration of the Group’s applications, users and information services to the Microsoft Azure Cloud platform, with clear benefits in terms of infrastructure flexibility, open innovation and cost optimisation. In November 2018 the Digital Factory was also launched, a space where dozens of our resources work in multifunctional teams to study and develop new IT solutions to digitise business processes. A real engine for innovation that, in 2019, will involve an increasing number of resources and partnerships with third parties such as universities and start-ups. The first steps of this path were taken thanks also to the advantages offered by the Public Cloud. Some technological innovation projects were part of the National Industry 4.0 Plan defined by the Ministry of Economic Development. Specifically, some action areas were identified, such as: • Digitisation of gas networks  A pilot project on 50 non-interconnected (antenna) gas distribution networks was completed, on which devices for the acquisition of physical and analogue parameters were installed, transmitting information and data to a supervision centre. The information is processed with algorithms to create forecasting and analysis models of any outages caused by network failures or malfunctions and is also used to provide direct feedback on the status of the parameters monitored. • Pressure monitoring Testing continued on pressure monitoring (as indicated in UNI/TR 11631) on some Italgas low-pressure networks, to test data collection and processing methods to identify the efficiency benchmark of the distribution system. 73 • Localisation of buried pipes by RFID markers RFID markers are electronic tags consisting of an integrated circuit and an antenna for shortrange data transmission. These tags are positioned close to the underground piping and are located using a transceiver controlled by an operator on the road. They can contain structured information on underground pipes (type of material, installation depth, position, etc.); data exchange with the transceiver occurs by electromagnetic induction; therefore, RFID markers are not powered by electricity sources that run out over time (batteries). The information contained in the Markers can be used by the network owner, by the operating companies or by third parties (accurate reporting of other services adjacent to the gas pipeline). These markers are essential for improving the exchange of information for the location of underground pipelines. In 2018, an innovative laser system for searching for dispersions was also tested using the Cavity Ring-Down Spectroscopy (CRDS) method, resonant cavity laser absorption spectroscopy, which is an evolution of the laser systems currently used by Italgas. This technology enables the CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // SOCIAL ASPECT OF THE BUSINESS detection of dispersions on road pipelines and user branches and riser columns, with greater selectivity for other types of gas and with a faster vehicular inspection. The system, following the definition of appropriate operating procedures, was introduced into company practice. In 2018 Italgas continued its gas odourisation activities, odourisation being crucial for distribution safety because it enables the detection of gas, which would otherwise be odourless and colourless, in the case of accidental leakage. Specifically, during the year research into biomethane was concluded, within the European Gas Research Group (GERG), on the interaction between odoriferous compounds in biomethane and THT and TBM odourants. This study made it possible to identify, in greater detail, the behaviour of some interferents (Limonene, Pinene, Butanone and DMS) both in the presence of the THT odourant and in that of TBM, with the possibility of proposing maximum concentration limits. The results of this recently completed research to assess olfactory interference may be incorporated into changes to Italian regulations. Within the Italgas Reti Laboratory in Asti a centre of technological excellence operating according to ISO 17025 standards for the tests and calibrations indicated in the accreditation certificates found on the Accredia site, test and calibration methods are developed and updated for innovative systems and products for each individual production process along with the monitoring of the various specialist activities related to gas distribution. In 2018, the following activities continued: rhino-analytical tests; instrumental tests on gas odourisation; the calibration of gas meters and other instrumentation supporting gas distribution activities, as well as mechanical tests on network materials. In 2018, Italgas Reti LAB carried out a total of 24,645 activities, including 11,446 accredited tests and 20 accredited calibrations. 74 CYBER SECURITY During the year, following the migration of the network infrastructure to the cloud, the Security function reorganised cyber security activities. In particular, the function implemented security guarantees in terms of business continuity and privacy, following the new European data protection regulations. As a result of the commitments set out in the strategic plan and the growing importance of information and data management, appropriate security policies were defined and solutions implemented to create a model of Security Information & Event Management, the main points of which concerned: • E arly Warning & Reporting processes and Data Breach management, to meet CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // SOCIAL ASPECT OF THE BUSINESS the requirements of the new privacy regulations and to manage the growing risk of loss of business-relevant information caused by the massive distribution of connected endpoints; • Infosharing and Reporting processes to top management for the prompt reporting cybersecurity events and cyber threats that may have a potential impact on the interest and assets of the Italgas group; • Protection processes and solutions, monitoring and correlation of events from different sources (application and infrastructure) to detect potential cybersecurity threats in advance. ITALGAS AND SAP TO IMPROVE THE LIVES OF VISUALLY IMPAIRED AND BLIND PEOPLE Thanks to the experience of Italgas and SAP, it has been possible to start on a process towards a new meaning of “smart company”, that is, a company that helps to improve people’s lives, is inclusive, and that uses technology to provide equal opportunities to all its employees. In line with its commitment to offer equal career paths for all and new professional opportunities, Italgas worked with SAP to implement a project that aims to make its information systems accessible to all, including the blind. In collaboration with the SAP Premium Engagement team, the localisation of the scripts for SAP ERP ECC was completed, leading to the creation of SAP GUI, allowing the visually impaired and blind user to interface with Jaws on a PC. The screen reader developed enables voice access to the PC, improving accessibility and usability thanks to audio feedback, the ability to quickly access the information and the field to be completed. It also enables blind people to work more effectively and efficiently, for example in managing emails and web browsing. This collaboration is an example of how companies and providers can develop partnerships that lead to the implementation of solutions that benefit the entire market. 75 TRANSPARENT RELATIONS AND PARTNERSHIP WITH SALES COMPANIES Consumers of natural gas can already freely choose their supplier on the free market. Also, with the end of the “protected market” planned for July 2020 under the Competition Law, consumers using this service will also have to switch to the free market and select their own supplier. To this end, distribution companies are obliged to allow access to their networks to anyone who requests it. In particular, with Resolution No. 138/04, the Authority issued measures to promote competition in the sale of natural gas and at the same time ensure, respecting consumer rights, the correct transmission of information between distributors and sellers. For this reason Italgas, in line with the Authority’s requirements and with its Sustainability Plan, has started a process of strengthening its relationship with sales companies through a series of initiatives. In addition, to create synergies with the sales companies, Italgas held two CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // SOCIAL ASPECT OF THE BUSINESS workshops with 50 participating companies, representing 99% of the redelivery points. In March and May 2018, the Group organised conventions to illustrate strategies, policies and tools that define relations with sellers, as well as to share Italgas’ development plan. These meetings were the result of important discussions and sharing of suggestions on development opportunities and the evaluation of Italgas’ work. As part of the initiatives aiming to strengthen the network of channels for dialogue with sales companies, the Group has created version 2.0 of the “GasOnLine” web portal which helps to update the main channel of communication with sellers for the management of service requests, the exchange of information, the consultation of readings (Reading Portal) and transport invoices (Invoice Portal) with advanced search tools. The new Portal, 76 created with responsive technology, among other things, also allows access to services and functions from mobile devices, to the benefit of sales company operators. It also features a home page dedicated to news, communications and documents that help sales companies to operate entirely independently, with understanding and transparency in relation to Italgas. The company is working to bring new features to the portal to simplify and speed up the formal process. For example, sellers can apply through GasOnLine for accreditation and access to distribution networks, as well as licenses for their operators. In the future, a section dedicated to reporting will also be created to provide in-depth information on the services requested by each vendor, their results and the calculation of the required guarantee. Following the installation and commissioning of an ever-increasing number of smart meters, Italgas has invested in infrastructures and applications to make all the readings available every month, in a quantity that exceeds ARERA regulatory obligations. As a result, in addition to the “daily” readings (large consumption), there has been an increase from an average of about CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // SOCIAL ASPECT OF THE BUSINESS 1 million readings per month notified to sellers, to more than 4 million readings per month for meters that need to be read quarterly or annually. The primary purpose of making end-customer consumption data available as quickly as possible is to increase the accuracy of invoicing to the end-customer, reducing estimated volumes and adjustments, to the benefit of customer satisfaction but also the benefit of the seller, thanks to the reduction of disputes and complaints. With regard to the mechanisms and systems for collecting reports and complaints from stakeholders, in 2018 Italgas Reti created new functions for its information systems in order to manage, in addition to complaints and requests from sellers regulated by the Authority’s resolutions, also the reports and requests for information coming from the approximately 300 sales companies on a daily basis accredited to operate on the distribution networks managed by the Company. At the same time, a project was carried out to define and measure organically and continuously KPIs, to define areas for improvement and implementing organisational and technological solutions aimed at improving the service offered to stakeholders. Another important initiative is “ItalgaSummer”, a commercial plan and pilot promotional initiative with which the Group has set itself the objective of increasing the active Redelivery Points and has launched a series of initiatives to define and implement a multi-year Commercial Plan. The initiative involved 12 towns recently connected to the methane gas network in Campania and Calabria, to promote the activation of new users. MYITALGAS The “Customer Portal” project was launched in 2018 to create a channel for access to the services offered by Italgas, dedicated to end customers. The launch of the “MyItalgas” portal is scheduled for 2019 and will allow end users to consult their user data (PdR redelivery point, meter number, etc..), to check the progress of their readings, to request a quote for the performance of construction work, modification or removal of the supply system. MyItalgas will be progressively enriched with additional functions, linked to requests for execution of work and information or the submission of complaints and tracking of appointments. 77 SOCIAL INNOVATION AND RELATIONSHIP WITH THE REGIONS CONCERNED Italgas aims to become a company that promotes an ever closer connection between networks, local environment and the community. An ecosystem, in which the Company recognises the centrality of stakeholders and their needs to create social as well as economic value. This is why, in line with its role as gas distribution service dealer, and in keeping with the principles of sustainable development and its own growth plans, Italgas engages in direct and continual dialogue with the communities in which it operates. To this end, the company has long had a specifically dedicated unit that ensures due attention to and transparency in the information flow. To strengthen its corporate citizenship in the communities and regions in which it operates CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // SOCIAL ASPECT OF THE BUSINESS Italgas cooperates with bodies, associations and foundations, non-profit organisations and other parties in projects and initiatives in specific areas. This commitment is reflected in initiatives mainly related to the protection of the environment, promotion of culture, social development and the protection of the local area with organisations active in Italy and abroad. Since 2017 Italgas has opened, in agreement with the Municipal Administrations, a series of meetings involving the participation of operators in the sector, aimed at strengthening awareness of the value of the gas network and the benefits of its responsible use for the community, in terms of convenience, practicality, safety and costs. The first round of meetings took place in Calabria. In 2018, the initiative was extended to the Sorrento Peninsula and Sardinia. In 2018, 764,000 euros were invested in sponsorships (90%) and donations (10%). Investment area Investments of the community 11% Sponsorizzazioni • Other 34% 55% Sponsorizzazioni • Sponsorships 10%90% Sponsorizzazioni • Cultural activities 55% Liberalità 34% • Donations 90% Liberalità 10% • Energy education 11% 78 INVESTMENTS IN THE COMMUNITY GRI STANDARD 203-1 Unit 2016 2017 2018 of measurement Sponsorships K€ 92.2 295 687.6 Donations K€ 76 76 76 Total K€ 168.2 358 764 In particular, sponsorships amounted to approximately 687,600 euros. The contributions were mainly in the artistic and cultural field, sport, education and awareness initiatives on issues of the energy sector and responsible use of resources. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // SOCIAL ASPECT OF THE BUSINESS In particular, the Company is a founding member of the Teatro Regio theatre in Turin, a member of Consulta Torino art and cultural association and a supporter of the Cini Foundation in Venice. In the sports world, Italgas is sponsoring the Italian National Men’s and Women’s Tennis Championships teams in the Davis Cup and Fed Cup competitions for 2018 and 2019. 79 ITALGAS AND ITS COMMITMENT TO THE HISTORICAL ARCHIVE AND THE MUSEUM For decades, Italgas has worked to preserve its historical documentation and that of its various subsidiaries and associates in two centuries of history. The Historical Archive, known as being of considerable historical interest, is currently being reorganised and integrated but continues to ensure the use of its documents to researchers. The acquisition of a new description software will soon bear fruit with the launch of a new web portal enabling consultation of the archive, the library, the periodicals’ library and the museum. With over 1,000 linear metres of documents, 6,000 volumes, brochures and magazines, 35,000 prints, photographs and posters and 350 pieces of period equipment and instruments, CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // SOCIAL ASPECT OF THE BUSINESS the Italgas Historical Archive and Museum is the repository of almost two centuries of industrial history. A heritage that Italgas preserves and enhances, making it known and accessible to an ever-wider public. This is the context of the initiatives promoted to make the Italgas Historical Archive an increasingly open and lively space, a place of dialogue and cultural contamination, a catalyst for new ideas and energies. One of the initiatives in 2018 was the festival of Italian archives which ended last June with “La notte degli Archivi”, an evening in which many of the city archives and some museums stayed open to the public. Italgas participated in the initiative by opening its Archives and inviting as special guest the famous mathematician Piergiorgio Odifreddi. With the Historical Archive and Museum, Italgas is also a partner in various projects in the local area, including “L’officina della Memoria”, in partnership with the Piedmontese Institute for the History of the Resistance and Contemporary Society, the Archival Superintendence for Piedmont and Valle d’Aosta and the Regional Education Office. The purpose of this work-related cultural programme is to inform and guide high school, technical and professional school students on the peculiarities and functions of the cultural heritage owned by institutions and entities outside the school (including companies) and train them for the management of these assets. For the first time in 2018, the Italgas Museum began a partnership with the Opera Barolo of Turin, participating in the exhibition “Beyond the journey ... Giulia and Tancredi discovering Europe”, with the display of an old gas lamp and the model of the 19th century Gas Workshop in London. Italgas also renewed its membership of the Musei Impresa association, dedicating itself in the spring of 2018 to the “The word to the object” format: the 10 companies 80 involved, narrated part of their history through the choice of an “object”. The resulting story that emerged focused attention on the points of contact between businesses and the vicissitudes of companies rooted in the local area. Also with Musei Impresa, in the autumn, Italgas organised two extraordinary openings of the Historical Archive and Museum on the occasion of the seventeenth “Week of Business Culture”. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // SOCIAL ASPECT OF THE BUSINESS AN AID TO RECONSTRUCTION: THE DONATION OF PCS TO SCHOOLS AFFECTED BY THE 2016 EARTHQUAKE Italgas, always supportive of local communities, signed an agreement with the government’s extraordinary commissioner for the earthquake in central Italy to donate 1,500 computers to schools in central Italy affected by the earthquake. At the end of 2018, 25 computers had been donated to the students of the Galilei school of Cittaducale. But the Company’s commitment doesn’t stop there. Another 165 computers were delivered to the local school office in Rieti, which will then distribute them to other schools in early 2019. ENERGY CULTURE: MEETINGS WITH YOUNG PEOPLE TO TRAIN INFORMED CONSUMERS In 2018 Italgas started a travelling project, in partnership with Confindustria, called “Energia mi piace” (“I like Energy”). This initiative seeks to reveal to young people, especially secondary school students, what lies behind daily actions such as pressing a switch or turning on the stove at home. During the meetings, young people are led by the hand, and interactively involved, to discover the complexity and articulated nature of the natural gas supply system, how many companies and how many people work in it daily and the impressive and articulated nature of the infrastructure network. It also gives information to help understand the energy future that awaits us and the role that gas infrastructures can play in energy de-carbonisation, in order to make the public more aware of the strategic options that our country faces in terms of energy supply and able to understand a debate that would otherwise be restricted to technicians and specialists in the field. The programme, launched in Turin, carried on in Sardinia and will continue in 2019. 81 82 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // ENVIRONMENTAL AND HEALTH ISSUES AND WORK SAFETY ENVIRONMENTAL AND HEALTH ISSUES AND WORK SAFETY CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // ENVIRONMENTAL AND HEALTH ISSUES AND WORK SAFETY RELEVANCE TO ITALGAS’ environmental footprint of its activities and ACTIVITIES protect the health and safety of its employees and the staff of its contractors involved in operations. For Italgas main material issues related to the environmental impact of its activities and to In addition, through constant research and health and safety at work refer to: technological innovation Italgas can develop • Energy efficiency and adopt solutions that ensure the least • Reducing the carbon footprint intrusive and most sustainable interaction • Waste management with the environment. Within this framework, • Protection of health and safety at work Italgas promotes actions and projects aiming to reduce the environmental footprint of its Italgas’s most significant environmental business processes, and improve plant safety impacts are the natural gas emissions from the conditions, as well as the environmental distribution networks, the emissions deriving recovery of the sites affected by previous from gas combustion in the network systems industrial gas production activities. and those from the fuels used by company cars. As recipient of the Decree of 20 July 2004 Other impacts derive from the waste generated of the Ministry of Economic Development, by the construction and maintenance of Italgas fulfils its annual obligation by networks and by the recovery of abandoned purchasing the Energy Efficiency Certificates industrial areas. The main causes of accidents in the market sessions managed by GME and are road accidents, accidents en route to or through bilateral contracts with operators in from work and accidents while performing the sector. For 2018 Italgas Reti purchased operational activities. a total of 718,847 TEEs for a total cost of 217.9 million euros; in particular, from 1 June Italgas has a responsible and transparent 2018 it began to purchase on the market the approach that aims to ensure compatibility securities required to meet the 2018 minimum between its infrastructures and the local obligation of 756,970 TEEs (i.e. 60% of the environment and efficient management of 2018 minimum obligation and the residual energy and natural resources, to contain the obligation accumulated in 2016). On 31 May 83 2018 it annulled 318,155 TEEs under the 2017 for the Company. This Policy underlines the obligation, 212,284 TEEs under the 2016 Company’s commitment to consider its obligation and the residual 2,991 TEEs under Integrated Management System as one of the 2015 obligation (Italgas Reti therefore the main stimuli for staff involvement and annulled 533,430 TEEs, collecting 166.1 process improvement, basing its operational million euros plus 86.9 million euros relating choices on the principles of fairness, to the adjustment for 2017), while in the professionalism and compliance, to ensure interim cancellation session of 30 November service delivery according to the best quality 2018, it cancelled 216,252 TEEs, obtaining an standards to meet customer expectations. advance payment of EUR/TEE 175.00 from the Italian Fund for Energy and Environmental The principles on which the Policy is based are: CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // ENVIRONMENTAL AND HEALTH ISSUES AND WORK SAFETY Services (Cassa per i Servizi Energetici e • guarantee, through adequate procedural, Ambientali CSEA), with a collection of 37.8 management and organisational tools, the million euros. right of customers to access and use the services; During 2018, Italgas carried out an • optimise business processes in order to environmental analysis that showed that the achieve the highest level of effectiveness use of water resources is not a significant and efficiency, while respecting the health environmental aspect. and safety of workers and with maximum environmental awareness. • design, build, manage and decommission POLICIES AND COMMITMENTS plants, buildings and activities, in compliance with the protection of In the performance of all its activities Italgas the health and safety of workers, the ensures great focus on the environment, environment, and energy saving, and natural resources and public and employee aligning with the best available and safety, considering them all key factors in the economically sustainable technologies; sustainable development of the company • conduct and manage activities with a and the local environment. The model of view to preventing accidents, injuries and governance of health, safety, environment, occupational diseases; quality and energy implemented by Italgas has • ensure the information, training and been in continuous evolution in recent years to awareness of staff so that they can adapt to changes in the regulatory environment participate actively and responsibly in the and the market in which it operates. implementation of the principles and the achievement of the objectives; The commitment on these issues can be • implement the sustainable use of natural seen in the adoption of the “Health, Safety, resources, pollution prevention and the Environment, Quality and Energy Policy protection of ecosystems and biodiversity; (HSEQE)” of Italgas Reti, developed on the • implement operational and management basis of company policies and the Code of measures to reduce greenhouse gas Ethics aimed at enhancing and protecting emissions, with a view to mitigating human and natural resources, essential values climate change; • manage waste in order to reduce its production and promote its recovery at its final destination. In the first half of 2018, Italgas Reti brought its Integrated Management System into line with the UNI EN ISO 9001:2015 standards for “Quality Management Systems” and UNI EN ISO 84 14001:2015 for “Environmental Management safety, and ensure the rational use of energy. Systems”. Also, Italgas Reti confirmed its The guidance, management and control certification of compliance with the OHSAS function of HSEQE activities, under the authority 18001 “Occupational Health and Safety of the Chief Executive Officer, guarantees and Management System” and UNI CEI EN ISO monitors the effective implementation of 50001 “Energy Management System” standards. policies and practices on health, safety and the environment. In 2018, Italgas provided 30,441 In line with the Group’s Management Models, hours of HSEQ training. the Company applies a regulatory system which aims to guarantee the safety and The following table summarises the health of people (employees, end customers, certifications for the various management CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // ENVIRONMENTAL AND HEALTH ISSUES AND WORK SAFETY contractors, etc.), prevent accidents, ensure systems, as well as the accreditations of the the protection of the environment and public Company’s laboratories: CERTIFICATIONS FOR THE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS, AND ACCREDITATIONS OF THE COMPANY’S LABORATORIES Company System or Scheme Standard Management system for the ITALGAS S.p.A. UNI EN ISO 37001:2016 prevention of corruption Management system for the ITALGAS RETI S.p.A. UNI EN ISO 37001:2016 prevention of corruption ITALGAS RETI S.p.A. Quality Management System UNI EN ISO 9001:2015 Environmental Management ITALGAS RETI S.p.A. UNI EN ISO 14001:2015 System Occupational Health and Safety ITALGAS RETI S.p.A. BH OHSAS 18001:2007 Management System ITALGAS RETI S.p.A. Energy Management System UNI CEI EN ISO 50001:2011 ITALGAS RETI S.p.A. C Type inspection body UNI CEI EN ISO/IEC 17020:2012 ITALGAS RETI S.p.A. Testing laboratory UNI CEI EN ISO/IEC 17025:2005 ITALGAS RETI S.p.A. Calibration laboratory UNI CEI EN ISO/IEC 17025:2005 MEDEA S.p.A. Quality Management System UNI EN ISO 9001:2015 Examination centre for SEASIDE S.r.l. certification as an Expert in UNI CEI 11339:2009 Energy Management SEASIDE S.r.l. Provision of energy services UNI CEI 11352:2014 SEASIDE S.r.l. Quality Management System UNI EN ISO 9001:2015 85 Concerning environmental management, the total amount of expenses and capital expenditures in 2018 was around 15.046 million euros. In particular, they are divided as follows: Environmental expenses in 2018 (K euro) Environmental investments in 2018 (K euro) CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // ENVIRONMENTAL AND HEALTH ISSUES AND WORK SAFETY 58 Altre attività di protezione 21 Altre attività di protezione 1.465 Gestione rifiuti e acque 112 Gestione rifiuti e acque • Soil and subsoil protection 3,696 • 3.659 Protezione suolo e sottosuolo Air and climate protection 3,587 2.449 Protezione suolo e sottosuolo • 3.696 Protezione Waste and water management 3,659 Aria e Clima • 3.587 Protezione 2,449 Aria e Clima Waste and water management • Air and climate protection 1,465 • Soil and subsoil protection 112 • Other environmental protection activitiesv 58 • Other environmental protection activities 21 Concerning health and safety management, the total amount of expenses and capital expenditures in 2018 was over 21 million euros. In particular, they are divided as follows: Safety expenses (K euro) Safety investments (K euro) 122 Formazione 232 Assicurazioni • Safety management 1.445 Gestione 3,338 sicurezza • Safety management 2.402 Dispositivi di protezione individuale 9,842 3.891 Gestione sicurezza • Plant and equipment 2,402 e attrezzature 3.338 Impianti • Plant and equipment 3,891 9.842 Impianti e attrezzature • Insurance 1,445 • Personal protection equipment 232 • Training 122 During 2018, the Italgas group did not receive any significant sanctions for breaching environmental laws and regulations.18 18_ It should also be noted that the figure for insurance takes into account the insurance premiums paid to INAIL, which for 2018 will be determined after the publication of this document (see with the provisions of Article 1, paragraph 1125, of Law No. 145 of 30 December 2018) and have therefore been assumed to be the same as those of 2017. 86 ACTIVITIES AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND EMISSIONS In Italgas, energy is mainly for industrial use. Natural gas is the most commonly used energy source, followed by electricity and diesel. In 2018, energy consumption was 561.59 TJ. The figure, comparable with that of previous years, shows an evident decrease in total energy consumption from 591.42 TJ in 2017. In general, there has been a reduction in the total energy consumption of fuel. In particular, concerning road transport, there was an increase in the use of natural gas and a decrease in the use of diesel fuel indicating Italgas is replacing its fleet CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // ENVIRONMENTAL AND HEALTH ISSUES AND WORK SAFETY with vehicles fuelled by natural gas. The reduction in electricity consumption is partly due to the migration, which began in mid-July, of the infrastructure and application map to the Cloud. Ten small-scale photovoltaic systems produced a negligible share of the electricity consumed (39kW of installed power for a production of 40.2 MWh in 2018). 87 ENERGY CONSUMPTION19. GRI STANDARD 302-1, GRI STANDARD 302-3 Consumption of energy from non-renewable resources Unit of measurement 2016 2017 2018 Fuel consumption for civil and industrial use TJ20 373.21 374.49 361.08 Of which natural gas for civil use TJ 57.09 58.16 47.59 Of which natural gas and LPG for industrial use TJ 316.12 316.33 313.49 Transport fuel consumption TJ 102.27 104.19 97.24 Of which diesel fuel TJ 82.80 79.60 63.98 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // ENVIRONMENTAL AND HEALTH ISSUES AND WORK SAFETY Of which petrol TJ 14.40 17.71 19.37 Of which natural gas TJ 5.07 6.89 13.89 Consumption of energy from renewable resources Fuel consumption from renewable sources TJ Total fuel consumption TJ 475.48 478.68 458.32 Indirect energy consumption Electricity Kwh 27,729,663.0 31,314,814.3 28,685,654.4 Of which from non-renewable sources Kwh 27,729,663.0 31,314,814.3 28,685,654.4 Of which from renewable sources Kwh Total indirect energy consumption TJ 99.83 112.73 103.27 Self-produced electricity Total of electricity produced from renewable TJ 0.13 0.13 0.14 sources Electricity sold (produced and sold to third parties) Total energy sold TJ 0.06 0.07 0.07 Total energy consumption TJ 575.40 591.42 561.59 Energy intensity Total energy consumption TJ 575.40 591.42 561.59 Transported gas21 106Sm3 7,470 7,767 7,820 Energy intensity (*) TJ/106Sm3 0.077 0.076 0.072 (*) Total energy consumption out of total distributed gas 19_Perimeter: Italgas SpA, Italgas Reti SpA, Italgas Acqua SpA, Seaside Srl, Medea SpA. For Medea, the figure includes 9/12 of total annual consumption. For Seaside, the vehicle consumption figure is an estimate based on 9.5 months of the yearly total. 20_The NHVs of the fuels obtained from the table of national standard parameters published on the Ministry of the Environment’s website (most recent year available: 2018) were used to calculate the totals in TJ. 21_The figure of gas transported refers to Italgas Reti’s natural gas, while the Medea data was not included since it relates to propane-air mixes and LPG expressed in k tons, which is negligible in any case compared to the transport of natural gas. 88 The main greenhouse gas (GHG) effects produced are carbon dioxide (CO2), produced in combustion processes and directly related to the consumption of fuels and methane (CH4) contained in natural gas released into the atmosphere during the normal operation of systems. Total GHG emissions (direct Scope 1, indirect Scope 2 and Scope 3) amounted to approximately 717,000 tonnes of CO2eq, an increase over 2017 mainly due to scope 3 emissions. In fact, in 2018 there was an increase in supply chain emissions due to the considerable rise in procurement (up by over 50%) and the launch of new initiatives. Direct emissions included emissions from civil and industrial fuel and emissions from motor vehicles, as well as network losses specific to the business in which the Group operates. Fugitive emissions are up slightly because of a larger network due to the acquisition of new CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // ENVIRONMENTAL AND HEALTH ISSUES AND WORK SAFETY networks and a number of methanisation campaigns in southern Italy. However, the quality of the network as a whole is improving due to replacement of most cast iron networks with hemp-lead joints by steel and polyethylene. The emission factor of the network weighted by network kilometres rose from 490.1 (2017) to 478.7 (2018), highlighting the improvement underway. Total direct emissions (scope 1) are 515 103CO2eq. ATMOSPHERIC EMISSIONS Unit GRI Standard 2016 2017 2018 of measurement Natural gas emissions 305-1 106Sm3 28.4 28 28.2 Total GHG emissions 714 657.3 717.43 of which scope I (*) 305-1 520 513.9 515.07 103ton CO2eq of which scope II 305-2 9 10.4 9.08 of which scope III (**) 305-3 185 133.03 193.29 ton Carbon intensity (***) 305-4 CO2eq 69.6 66.2 67 / 106Sm3 Emissioni di NOX 305-7 tonnes 32.8 32.2 30.01 (*)  O2eq emissions were consolidated according to the operational control approach. The GHG gases included in the calculation are C CO2 and CH4 and emissions were calculated with a methane GWP of 28, as suggested in the scientific study of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) “Fifth Assessment Report IPCC” (**) Includes emissions related to gas supplied, business travel and the launch of new initiatives. As regards the calculation of scope 3 emissions related to supplied gas, Italgas employed an internal methodology that uses a factor to convert the value of supplied gas into CO2 emissions for each product category. (***) Calculated as scope 1 and scope 2 / distributed gas emissions In 2018, experiments continued on the central heating management system of Reduction and Measurement (IPRM) plants, aimed at reducing preheated gas; the system combines the Energy Multivariable Master thermoregulation (EMMa) optimisation technology with a gas absorption heat pump. To increase the energy efficiency of IPRM systems, in 2018 EMMa ECO devices were installed in 28 IPRMs. These microcontrollers enable significant reductions in preheating consumption of up to more than 20%. Taking into account the installations carried out in previous years, there are now a total of 29 plants with EMMa ECO devices, all equipped with a thermo-hygrometric probe that limits condensation during the summer months. 89 ONGOING TRIALS Another three IPRMs have EMMa Premium systems installed, combining EMMa ECO technology with a gas-absorption heat pump with a view to the further reduction of preheating consumption. During 2018, the testing of an alternative system, called EcoCH4 Starbox, began on a further three IPRMs. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // ENVIRONMENTAL AND HEALTH ISSUES AND WORK SAFETY Again with a view to reducing electricity consumption at the IPRM, an analysis was launched in 2018 to replace the lamps dedicated to outdoor lighting with LED lamps, which will be installed in 2019. During 2018, the plan to convert the current LPG distribution networks to natural gas continued with a total of approximately 76 km of network to be converted by 2020, after the construction of approximately 220 km of new extensions. During 2018, work began on eight extensions to networks for converting 10 districts located in eight municipalities to natural gas, which we expect to complete in 2019. The carbon dioxide produced by the combustion of natural gas is 15% less than LPG, for the same level of energy consumption. Also, Italgas has improved, through gas advocacy and de-carbonisation activities, the efficiency and safety of the energy system. It has acquired over 3,000 new PTOs in the target municipalities, installed 28 efficient systems that reduce energy consumption in the gas preheating phase and replaced 24.5 km of network with lead hemp joints. ITALGAS VEHICLES On 2,342 operating vehicles 1,680 are methane gas Lastly, the plan for the total renewal of the company’s fleet with methane powered vehicles and the installation of systems (columns) at operating sites was optimised to ensure their refuelling even where the road distribution network is not yet sufficiently developed. The renewal of the vehicle fleet will be completed in the first few months of 2019: by that date all operating vehicles will be powered by methane gas. Italgas considers methane a valid alternative to traditional automotive fuels. Using methane entails a reduction of nitrogen oxides emissions by about 94%, and of fine particles emissions by about 95% compared to fossil fuels, thereby proving as a fundamental measure to combat pollution, especially in urban centres. In 2018, 87 had been installed in 25 operating sites, in addition to the 17 already operational at the Italgas Reti office in Turin. At the end of 2018, approximately 72% of the vehicles used by Italgas SpA, Italgas Reti, Italgas Acque SpA and Medea SpA were powered by methane (33% at the end of 2017). 90 WASTE PRODUCTION AND DISPOSAL In 2018, waste from operational activities approximately 761 tonnes, including the 2017 waste inventory of 48 tons, the total value of the waste sent for recovery or disposal for the year 2018 amounts to 809 tons, 99% of which was non-hazardous. This type of waste is composed in part of mechanical meters, subject to a massive replacement campaign, and in part of material resulting from the excavation activities carried out by the newly incorporated companies (Acam Gas, SGS) before their merger and the verification of the correct installation of the networks. TOTAL WASTE FROM PRODUCTION AND RECLAMATION GRI STANDARD 306-2 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // ENVIRONMENTAL AND HEALTH ISSUES AND WORK SAFETY Unit of 2016 2017 2018* measurement Total generated waste t. 20,498 14,422 1,719 of which hazardous t. 236 1,510 10 of which non-hazardous t. 20,262 12,912 1,709 Total waste generated by operating activities t. 1,609 1,520 761 Total waste generated by reclamation activitie t. 18,890 12,804 959 Total waste for disposal or recovery t. 20,469 14,380 1,768 of which recovered % 22.9 36.1 97 (*) The figure includes waste from reclamation produced only in the first months of 2018, i.e. when Italgas was the material producer of the waste, which was subsequently assigned to a contractor. WASTE FROM PRODUCTION ACTIVITIES BY TYPE OF DISPOSAL Unit of 2018 measurement hazardous non-hazardous Total waste sent for recover/disposal outside t. 10.37 798.27 the company (from production activities) Recovery / Recycling t. 4.08 795.56 of which ferrous material t. 421.79 other t. 4.08 373.77 Incineration t. Waste sent directly to landfill t. Other plant t. 6.29 2.70 91 Italgas also carries out environmental reclamation and requalification activities that include, along with the reclamation of the environmental matrices related to the site, also the possible demolition of parts of the same and the related disposal of all waste produced. In particular, Italgas Reti22 is obliged to clean up specific sites on which industrial activities were carried out in the past, such as the distillation of gas from coal, cracking or reforming of light oil derivatives for the production of city gas. From early 2018, under current legislation, Italgas Reti no longer assumes the role of Waste Producer in the context of reclamation sites. Therefore the data relating to waste refer to the activity carried out by Italgas in the first part of the year. In 2018, the Group’s waste from reclamation activities amounted to approximately 959 tonnes, entirely classified as non-hazardous, of which 53.5 tonnes were from soil reclamation activities and 905.5 tonnes from groundwater reclamation activities. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // ENVIRONMENTAL AND HEALTH ISSUES AND WORK SAFETY In 2018, reclamation, environmental reclamation, restoration and monitoring activities carried out in compliance with the process with the Public Administration envisaged by Italian Legislative Decree 152/06 involved 31 sites, of which only the Naples site falls within the remit of the Ministry of the Environment from an administrative standpoint, while the others fall within the competence of the region. MAIN DATA ON RECLAMATION ACTIVITIES GRI STANDARD 306-2 2018 No. m2 Sites affected by reclamation activities or to be reclaimed 31 1,477,000 Certified clean-up operations Approved characterisation programmes 26 1,233,524 Approved risk analysis (152/2006) or approved preliminary 23 1,155,524 clean-up projects (pursuant to 471/99) Approved operational reclamation projects (152/2006) 19 625,213 or approved final reclamation projects (pursuant to 471/99) Operational safety measures 1 257 Soil emergency safety measures Groundwater safety measures 8 22_There are no reclamation processes pursuant to Italian Legislative Decree 152/2006 for companies connected to Italgas 92 During 2018, the Permanent Safety Measures for the Bassano del Grappa (VI) site were completed, whose reclamation certification procedure is in the start-up phase. Also, a series of reclamations were started which will continue in 2019 for the sites of Venezia Santa Marta, Venezia Isola di Murano, Legnago (VR) and Turin, where in particular the reclamation concerned the aquifer of Corso Regina Margherita. Finally, executive projects needed to call for tenders for the reclamation of the Venezia Altobello and Cairo Montenotte sites are currently being drafted, with regard to the Parco 3 fossil deposit area and the SFAT and landfill areas. RECLAMATION23 GRI STANDARD 306-2 2018 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // ENVIRONMENTAL AND HEALTH ISSUES AND WORK SAFETY Waste from soil reclamations of which earth and rock from excavation 53.5 Total waste from soil reclamation sent for recovery and disposal 53.5 of which recovery/recycling 53.5 of which soil sent to landfill 11.4 Waste from groundwater reclamation 42.1 Total waste from groundwater reclamation sent for recovery and disposal 905.5 of which recovery/recycling 905.5 23_Waste generated only in the first months of 2018, before the role of material producer of the waste was contractually assigned to the Contractor 93 GROUNDWATER Italgas Reti’s production process does not involve the use of water for industrial use, except for the quantities used to top up the gas preheating systems, located inside the pressure-reduction cabins of the gas drawn from the high-pressure gas pipeline system, without the presence of industrial waste. Medea also uses the water that is heated to vaporise the mixture of propane gas and air entering the plants. This water, which also goes into the firefighting system, is drawn from the water table through an authorised well. The excess water is discharged CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // ENVIRONMENTAL AND HEALTH ISSUES AND WORK SAFETY to the ground, after treatment, in accordance with the authorisation granted. As part of the reclamation activities, 275,600 cubic metres of water are taken from the contaminated water table; this water is treated to bring the concentrations of pollutants back to a level in conformity with the limits for disposal into the public sewerage system, in compliance with the appropriate authorisations. WATER exclusively on public land and of the meters installed at the customers’ premises, through The Environmental Analysis carried out by which it establishes the location and the Italgas Reti in 2018, according to UNI EN flow rate. ISO 14001, has shown that the use of water resources is not a significant environmental aspect. However, the HSEQ Policy provides for ACCIDENT PREVENTION the protection of resources and their rational use. For this reason, the Group is committed The protection of health and safety is a factor to reducing its limited water consumption. of primary importance for Italgas, as stated The use of freshwater from the aqueduct for in the “Health, Safety, Environment, Quality sanitary purposes in the changing rooms and and Energy Policy (HSEQE)”. The principles offices and for firefighting systems, totals of the Policy include some fundamental approximately 156,000 cubic metres. As aspects related to the concept of health and far as the disposal of water for civil uses is safety of workers including the optimisation concerned, all wastewater is, by its nature, of business processes, the design, construction, sent into the sewerage system untreated. management and decommissioning of plants and the management of activities with The situation is different for Italgas Acqua, a view to preventing accidents, injuries and a Group company that manages the occupational diseases. Italgas, aware of distribution of water in five municipalities the importance of managing these aspects, in Campania. For this company, managing applies management systems certified water consumption means taking water, according to the OSHAS 18001 standard. making it drinkable and distributing it to the public, ensuring quality standards and Training programmes on dangers deriving from continuity and regularity of service. Italgas the performance of the operational activities, in Acqua invoices 7.6 million cubic metres of addition to specific awareness-raising actions water per year and is responsible for the that involve all operating personnel, are one of management and maintenance of all the the main tools for improving health and safety underground or overhead pipes present performance of employees. 94 In 2018, Italgas provided approximately 28,000 hours of health and safety training. Other significant good practices should also be noted: • the organisation of “Safety Walks” continued, four sessions of which took place in 2018, during which management shared with operating staff the carrying out of some significant practical activities and addressed and commented on safety issues; CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // ENVIRONMENTAL AND HEALTH ISSUES AND WORK SAFETY • initiatives aimed at raising awareness on safety issues addressed to internal employees and contractors; both initiatives involved the local management who attended all the numerous meetings organised locally throughout the year. Health and safety management in 2018 A growing culture of safety at work is also focused in particular on communication encouraged through well-established incentive aspects. In this regard, it is worth mentioning practices that take place annually, such as the the structured internal communication “Italgas Safety Trophy” and the “Zero Injuries campaign, aimed at all employees, or the Award”, which goes to groups that have not “safety first” campaign, which aims to raise had any accidents during the year, awareness of safety issues among employees, with images and messages disseminated In 2018, Group employees were involved in through various communication tools such a total of 17 accidents, a marked improvement as posters, corporate intranets and mobile on the previous year (24 in 2017), of which devices supplied to staff. eight were accidents at work (13 in 2017) and nine in progress (11 in 2017). Total accidents resulted in 747 days of absence or 162 excluding accidents en route to or from work. The breakdown of accidents also influences the value of frequency and severity indexes that improved on last year, excluding accidents en route to or from work. Also, the number of contractor accidents decreased considerably, with four occupational accidents detected in 2018 (seven in 2017) for a total of 307 days of absence. None of the injuries was fatal. 95 EMPLOYEE INJURIES GRI STANDARD 403-2 Unit of 2016 2017 2018 measurement Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total Accidents at work no. 14 14 12 1 13 8 8 Northern Italy no. 8 8 6 1 7 2 2 Central Italy no. 2 2 2 2 4 4 Southern Italy no. 4 4 4 4 2 2 and Islands Injuries en route to and no. 6 3 9 10 1 11 7 2 9 from work CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // ENVIRONMENTAL AND HEALTH ISSUES AND WORK SAFETY Northern Italy no. 2 3 5 5 1 6 3 2 5 Central Italy no. 3 3 3 3 1 1 Southern Italy no. 1 1 2 2 3 3 and Islands Total injuries no. 20 3 23 22 2 24 15 2 17 Northern Italy no. 10 3 13 11 2 13 5 2 7 Central Italy no. 5 5 5 5 5 5 Southern Italy no. 5 5 6 6 5 5 and Islands Severity index* % 0.24 0.17 0.23 0.23 0.09 0.21 0.14 0.06 0.13 Frequency index** % 4.04 4.45 4.09 8.53 2.84 4.10 2.87 2.99 2.89 Rate of occupational % 0.04 0.03 diseases (ODR) Near miss no. 16 16 7 7 30 30 Northern Italy no. 2 2 5 5 8 8 Central Italy no. 8 8 1 1 12 12 Southern Italy no. 6 6 1 1 10 10 and Islands Absenteeism rate*** % 6.6 7.2 6.7 6.9 7.0 6.9 6.5 7.0 6.6 Northern Italy % 5.3 5.1 5.3 5.4 5.0 5.3 5.0 5.4 5.1 Central Italy % 8.5 11.2 8.7 9.2 11.2 9.3 8.7 10.6 8.8 Southern Italy % 6.4 9.1 6.6 6.9 9.0 7.1 6.5 8.9 6.7 and Islands (*) Days of absence due to accident / thousands of hours worked (**) Accidents recorded / millions of hours worked (***) Total number of days lost in the period / total number of working days in the period 96 CONTRACTORS’ INJURIES GRI STANDARD 403-2 Unit of 2016 2017 2018 measurement Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total Accidents at work no. 8 8 7 7 3 1 4 Northern Italy no. 5 5 2 2 1 1 2 Central Italy no. 2 2 5 5 2 2 Southern Italy no. 1 1 and Islands Injuries en route to and no. 1 1 1 1 2 from work CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // ENVIRONMENTAL AND HEALTH ISSUES AND WORK SAFETY Northern Italy no. 1 1 1 1 Central Italy no. 1 1 Southern Italy no. and Islands Total injuries no. 9 9 8 1 9 3 1 4 Northern Italy no. 6 6 2 1 3 1 1 2 Central Italy no. 2 2 6 6 2 2 Southern Italy no. 1 1 and Islands Severity index* % 0.20 0.14 0.21 0.02 0.22 0.11 0.10 0.11 Frequency index** % 9.73 4.28 8.68 7.96 4.30 1.23 3.01 1.44 97 98 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // ITALGAS AND RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT ITALGAS AND RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // ITALGAS AND RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT Given the extension of Italgas activities, the supply chain is of strategic importance for the performance of its operational activities. In procurement practices, Italgas is clear and transparent with its suppliers and, once the supply relationship has been established, seeks to help each supplier to achieve sustainable performance over time, with a view to mutual growth and value creation. The Procurement function of the Italgas Group is responsible for managing all purchases of goods and services for the Group (from network works, excavations, pipe laying, meter installations and the related goods and services required, meters of various calibres, reduction units, remote control systems, pipes, fittings and valves, reading services, replacement of meters, dispersion research, engineering services and works management, ICT Services all for services of staff areas for Human Resources, Communication, Security and of Internal Auditing). Suppliers are required to take note of Model 231 to fulfil the requirements of the relevant legislation (Italian Legislative Decree No. 231/2001), to comply with the principles of the Code of Ethics, and to operate in compliance with the occupational safety, health protection, environmental protection regulations, as well as international standards on labour law. In managing procurement, Italgas is subject, for a number of product classes, to the application of the procedures set out in the Tender Code (Italian Legislative Decree No. 50/2016). Italgas’ suppliers are required to sign the Ethics and Integrity Agreement if they want to maintain their status and inclusion in the suppliers’ register. In 2018 Italgas had over 1,351 active suppliers and 869 contracts signed. Ninety-nine percent the value of the gas supplied comes from Italy, with particular reference to the regions of Lombardy, Lazio, Calabria, Veneto and Sicily. 99 SUPPLIED BY PRODUCT TYPE24 Unit of 2016 2017 2018 measurement Goods % 37 12 16 Works % 29 43 48 Services % 34 45 36 In recent years Italgas has committed to strengthening its involvement with its suppliers, aware of the importance of establishing lasting and trusting relationships. This is why in 2018 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // ITALGAS AND RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT it organised 10 sustainability initiatives involving 258 suppliers. QUALIFICATION AND SELECTION Companies that apply to supply goods, services and works to the Italgas group participate in a selection and qualification process conducted on the basis of a range of requirements, and always in compliance with the principle of equal opportunities. Requests for new qualification, updating or renewal are managed centrally through the Vendor Management and Supplier Performance Evaluation System, under the responsibility of the Procurement and Materials Management department, following the organisational change that occurred in 2018. Suppliers who pass the qualification phase therefore receive a qualification valid for all Group companies25. The technical and managerial skills and economic and financial reliability of suppliers are to be assessed, as well as other aspects more closely connected to sustainability issues. In reference to this latter aspect, respect for ethical principles, commitment to the fight against corruption, environmental safeguard and protection, promotion of healthy and safe working conditions, and the absence of forced labour and the economic exploitation of children, are all assessed. The economic, environmental and social risks associated with each product class give rise to four different levels of supply criticality, on a scale ranging from minimum “D” to maximum “A”, which identifies strategic suppliers. The minimum requirements for HSEQ must be met for each criticality level. For product categories A and B class, the selection and qualification procedures include more stringent requirements such as, for example, the supplier’s possession of management systems certified according to international standards26. 24_The figure for the Gas supplied and Contracts of 2018 refers to the companies in the SAP system. The companies Medea (Fontenergia 7 and Fontenergia 9), Seaside, Italgas Acqua 25_The vendor lists acquired for the companies that joined the Group in 2018 were verified using the same criteria as for Italgas. 26_All suppliers with criticality A, those of “Goods” with criticality B and C and “Works” with criticality B are ISO 9001 certified. Moreover, all suppliers of “Works” with criticality A and B are certified according to ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001. 100 SELECTION AND QUALIFICATION OF SUPPLIERS 2018 GRI STANDARD 308-1; 414-1 of which of which on of which Unit of on health environon labour measuTotale and safety mental protection rement requirerequirerequirements* ments* ments* Product Group: Goods Total qualified suppliers no. 445 445 148 445 of which belong to class A and B no. 78 78 78 78 no. 106 106 21 106 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // ITALGAS AND RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT Total qualified suppliers in 2018 % 100% 100% 20% 100% of which belong to class A and B no. 8 8 8 8 Product Group: Works Total qualified suppliers no. 224 224 114 224 no. 86 86 86 86 of which belong to class A and B no. 47 47 18 47 Total qualified suppliers in 2018 % 100% 100% 38% 100% of which belong to class A and B no. 11 11 11 11 Product Group: Services Total qualified suppliers no. 1,029 1,029 422 1,029 no. 212 212 212 212 of which belong to class A and B no. 261 261 85 261 Total qualified suppliers in 2018 % 100% 100% 33% 100% of which belong to class A and B no. 45 45 45 45 (*) The social criteria considered are those of Sustainability reported in the ITG Code of Ethics, while the environmental criteria refer to the ISO 14001 standards 101 The selection and qualification process includes due diligence activities to check the actual possession and maintenance of the requirements by suppliers. In 2018, three audits were requested on critical suppliers during qualification for type A product classes, while another 347 suppliers were involved in renewal activities and the assignment of new qualifications. During the qualification or renewal phase, 34 reputational checks were finalised, using specialised databases, from which irregularities emerged, which generated: • 1 revocation of qualification; • 2 reputational alerts; • 1 suspension measure. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // ITALGAS AND RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE MONITORING AND SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT During the execution of the contract, the services rendered by suppliers are assessed through the collection of feedback questionnaires issued by the contract managers (449 in 2018). For each type of product class, the supplier is assessed in three distinct areas: punctuality, behaviour and quality. In particular, the quality area includes technical capabilities as well as HSEQ aspects. If the supplier fails to meet the obligations undertaken during the qualification and assignment of the contract, Italgas reserves the right to take measures consisting in the limitation, suspension or revocation of the qualification and assignment. The assessment in 2018 involved 79 suppliers, and in 15 cases measures were taken to deal with negative situations or failures. In 2018, the development of the vendor rating component of the Vendor Management System was completed. Thanks to this system, these questionnaires are automatically managed and each supplier is awarded an overall score, also visible to the Procurement Units, obtained by combining the results of the questionnaires with other information from the company information systems responsible for managing the contracts issued. In 2018, the questionnaires were refined as planned, to make the assessment of suppliers even more effective and timely. Italgas also carries out audits at the sites where the contractors operate. In 2018, 38 audits carried out by external certifiers at Italgas sites led to the temporary suspension (of 3 to 6 months) of the qualification of some suppliers. The critical issues identified led to the temporary suspension of the qualification of 10 suppliers. Also, these audits gave rise to four warnings. Temporary suspensions are linked to safety on construction sites, compliance with legal requirements and Italgas’ specifications. 102 SUBCONTRACTING Within the supply chain, subcontractors are supervised during the tender or contract management phases. As for suppliers, Italgas requires subcontractors to take note of Model 231 in order to fulfil the requirements of the relevant legislation (Italian Legislative Decree No. 231/2001), to comply with the principles of the Code of Ethics, and to operate in compliance with the regulations on occupational safety, health protection, environmental protection, as well as international standards on labour law. Subcontractors must also sign the Ethics and Integrity Agreement. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // ITALGAS AND RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT In the course of 2018, only subcontracts for ancillary works27, were granted, always within the scope of Italian Legislative Decree No. 50/2016, according to which subcontracting cannot account for more than 30% of the value of the overall contract. In 2018, 186 companies were designated as subcontractors, of which 21 were qualified suppliers and included in the Vendor Management System as direct suppliers of Italgas. Reputational checks are also carried out for subcontractors. 27_Ancillary works: for example drilling (TOT), pipe jacking, relining, non-destructive welding inspections, special flooring, repairs of road surfaces, cast asphalt, road signs, drying of AP pipes, geological survey activity ahead of drilling works for laying cathodic protection earth electrodes and works for the creation of earth electrodes, and possible laboratory tests on floorings. 103 104 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI CONTENT INDEX CORE OPTION Page or disclosure Global GRI Standard Disclosure Description of the indicator Omissions number compact GRI 102General disclosure 102-1 Name of the organisation p. 9 Main activities, brands, products and/ 102-2 pp. 9-12; 69-70 or services Milano, 102-3 Headquarters via Carlo Bo no. 11 102-4 Location of operations p. 9 pp. 29-31 Report on 102-5 Ownership structure and legal form corporate governance and CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // GRI CONTENT INDEX shareholding structure Markets served (including 102-6 geographical breakdown, sectors, pp. 9-10; 69; 76-77 types of customers and beneficiaries) organization 102-7 Scale of the organisation pp. 9-10; 14-15; 51 profile Information on employees Principle 102-8 pp. 50-51 and other workers 6 102-9 Supply chain pp. 99-103 Significant changes to the organization 102-10 pp. 12-13 and its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach p. 37 102-12 External initiatives pp. 21; 34 Membership of national or 102-13 international support associations pp. 10; 71-73 and organisations 105 GRI CONTENT INDEX CORE OPTION Page or disclosure Global GRI Standard Disclosure Description of the indicator Omissions number compact Statement by the Chairman Strategy 102-14 pp. 5-7 and Chief Executive Officer Values, principles, standards, codes Principle 102-16 pp. 19-20; 33-35; 44 of conduct and codes of ethics 10 Ethics and integrity Mechanisms for advice Principle 102-17 pp. 34-35 and concerns about ethics 10 Principle 102-18 Governance structure pp. 29-31 10 Composition of the highest governing 102-22 pp. 29-31 Governance body and its committees CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // GRI CONTENT INDEX pp. 29-30; Report on Processes for appointing and selecting 102-24 corporate governance the highest governing body and ownership structure 102-40 List of stakeholders involved p. 27 Principle 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements pp. 65; 67 3 Involvement of Process for identifying and selecting pp. 20; 26-27; 48-50; 102-42 stakeholdersr stakeholders to involve 67; 76 102-43 Approach to stakeholder Engagement p. 26-27 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised pp. 26-27; 48-49; 67; 76 106 GRI CONTENT INDEX CORE OPTION Page or disclosure Global GRI Standard Disclosure Description of the indicator Omissions number compact List of entities included in the 102-45 pp. 12; 16-17 consolidated financial statements Defining report content 102-46 pp. 25-26 and topic Boundaries 102-47 List of material topics pp. 25-26 102-48 Restatements of information pp. 16-17 102-49 Changes in reporting pp. 12; 16-17 102-50 Reporting period pp. 16 p. 15; the Consolidated Parameters Non-Financial CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // GRI CONTENT INDEX of the report 102-51 Date of most recent report Statement was published in March 2018 102-52 Reporting cycle p. 16 Contact point for questions 102-53 sustainability@italgas.it regarding the report Claims of reporting in accordance 102-54 pp. 105-110 with the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index p. 16 102-56 External assurance p. 111 107 GRI CONTENT INDEX CORE OPTION Page or Description Global GRI Standard Disclosure disclosure Omissions of the indicator compact number Class: Economic performance 103-1 103-2 Management approach pp. 14-15 Aspect: 103-3 Economic performance Direct economic value 201-1 pp. 14-15 Principle 7 generated and distributed 103-1 103-2 Management approach pp. 78-81 Aspect: 103-3 Indirect economic impacts Investments in 203-1 infrastructure and pp. 78-79 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // GRI CONTENT INDEX supported services 103-1 pp. 33-36; 103-2 Management approach 37; 43-45 Aspect: 103-3 Anti-corruption Cases of corruption 205-3 pp. 45 Principle 10 identified and actions taken Class: Environmental performance 103-1 pp. 83-85; 103-2 Management approach 87; 89 103-3 The data for total annual consumption for Medea Energy consumed within and data on vehicle Aspect: Energy 302-1 pp. 87-88 Principle 7, 8 the organisation consumption for Seaside are estimated for the relevant period The value of the energy 302-3 Energy intensity pp. 87-88 intensity of Medea is not Principle 8 included 103-1 pp. 83-84; 103-2 Management approach 89-90 103-3 Direct greenhouse gas 305-1 pp. 88-89 Principle 7, 8 emissions (scope I) Indirect greenhouse gas 305-2 pp. 88-89 Principle 7, 8 emissions (scope2) Aspect: Emissions the data does not include Other indirect greenhouse 305-3 pp. 88-89 Medea, Seaside, Italgas Principle 7, 8 gas emissions (scope 3) Acqua. 305-4 GHG emissions intensity pp. 88-89 Principle 8 Sox emissions have not NOx, SOx and other 305-7 p. 89 been reported as they are Principle 7, 8 significant emissions considered not significant. 108 GRI CONTENT INDEX CORE OPTION Page or Description Global GRI Standard Disclosure disclosure Omissions of the indicator compact number Class: Environmental performance 103-1 103-2 Management approach pp. 91-93 Aspect: 103-3 Disposal and waste 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method pp. 91-93 Principle 8 103-1 103-2 Management approach pp. 83-86 Aspect: 103-3 compliance ambientale New suppliers that were screened 308-1 pp. 101 Principle 8 using environmental criteria CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // GRI CONTENT INDEX Class: Social performance 103-1 pp. 47-49; 103-2 Management approach 62-65 103-3 Aspect: Employment New employee hires 401-1 pp. 50-56 Principle 6 and employee turnover 401-3 Parental leave pp. 65 Principle 6 103-1 103-2 Management approach pp. 94-95 103-3 Aspect: Occupational Types of injury and rates of injury, health and safety occupational diseases, lost days, Principle 403-2 pp. 95-97 and absenteeism, and number 7, 8 of work-related fatalities 103-1 pp. 47-49; 103-2 Management approach 56-62 Aspect: 103-3 Training and education Average hours of training per 404-1 employee per gender and per pp. 60 Principle 6 employee category 109 “IN COMPLIANCE” GRI CONTENT INDEX CORE OPTION Page or Description Global GRI Standard Disclosure disclosure Omissions of the indicator compact number Class: social performance 103-1 pp. 29-30; 103-2 Management approach 62-65 103-3 Aspect: Diversity of governance bodies 405-1 pp. 30; 63-64 Principle 6 Diversity and equal and employees opportunities The data does Ratio of basic salary not include 405-2 and remuneration pp. 64 Principle 6 Seaside and of women to men Medea. 103-1 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2018 // GRI CONTENT INDEX 103-2 Management approach pp. 99-103 Aspect: 103-3 Environmental assessment of suppliers Percentage of new suppliers 414-1 p. 101 Principle 2 assessed by social criteria 103-1 103-2 Management approach pp. 71-73 103-3 Aspect: Health and safety The data of consumers Assessment of health and safety does not 416-1 pp. 71; 72 impacts of products and services include Medea. Material issue: 103-1 security 103-2 Management approach p. 41 of information 103-3 and data Material issue: transparent 103-1 relations and 103-2 Management approach pp.76-78 partnership with 103-3 sale companies Material issue: 103-1 innovation and 103-2 Management approach pp.73-75 digitisation 103-3 110 By Italgas Pre-Printing ACC & Partners Printing Periskop Printed on Eco-Friendly paper Fedrigoni Symbol Freelife Photos Chiara Cesana Territorial hubs included in the shooting: Campania, Piemonte Aosta, Roma Nord, Roma Sud, Torino, Sicilia, Venezia March 2019 italgas.it
