FLY INTO TOMORROW JAL REPORT 2019 Fiscal year ended March 2019 The JAL Group adopts the Corporate Policy as its universal management goal and management rationale, and established the Safety Charter as the Group’s safety policy based on the Corporate Policy. The JAL Group also established the JAL Philosophy as a mindset, values and attitude expected of all Group employees, with the hope that application of this Philosophy will lead to realization of the Corporate Policy. JAL PHILOSOPHY JAL Group Corporate Policy Part 1 In Order to Lead a Wonderful Life Part 2 To Become a Wonderful JAL The JAL Group Will: Chapter 1 The Formula for Success (The Formula for Life and Work) Chapter 1 Each of Us Makes JAL What It Is Each of Us Makes JAL What It Is Pursue the material and intellectual growth The Result of Life and Work = Attitude × Discuss Frankly Effort × Ability Lead by Example Be the Center of the Vortex Valuable Lives Are Entrusted to Us in Our Work Have the Right Attitude of all our employees; Chapter 2 Be Thankful Base Criteria for Decision-Making on Put Yourself in the Customer’s Position “Doing What Is Right as a Human Being” Have a Beautiful Mind Deliver unparalleled service to our Have a Keen Sense of Profitability Chapter 2 Be Humble and Honest Always Be Cheerful and Positive Maximize Revenues and Minimize Expenses A Small Good Is Like a Great Evil, While a (Measure Your Inflow and Control Your Outflow) customers; Great Good May Appear Merciless Elevate Our Cost-Consciousness Wrestle in the Center of the Ring Pursue Profit Fairly JAL REPORT 2019 Grasp Matters Simply Manage the Company Based on Accurate Figures Possess Opposing Extremes and Chapter 3 Accumulate Tedious Efforts Chapter 3 Unite Our Hearts Make the Best Baton Pass with Passion Align Mental Vectors Increase corporate value and contribute to Work Earnestly Accumulate Tedious Efforts “Workfloor” Management Follow the Merit System Work with Voluntary Attention the betterment of society. Fire Yourself Up Strive for Perfection Chapter 4 Possess a Fighting Spirit Maintain an Ardent Desire Never Give Up Until We Succeed Chapter 4 Ability Will Improve Boast and Make It Come True Possess True Courage Ability Will Improve S A F E T Y C H A RT E R Chapter 5 Be Creative in Our Work Today Should Be Better Than Yesterday, Tomorrow Better Than Today Conceive Optimistically, Plan Pessimistically, and Safety: The protection of lives. Execute Optimistically Think Through to Visualize the Results This is the commitment and basic foundation of business continuity for the JAL Group. Decide and Act with Speed Face Challenges with Courage We take to heart our mission and responsibility as safety professionals to ensure a safe Aim High operation on every flight with the best of our knowledge, skills and abilities. To accomplish this, we will act according to the following principles. ● Stop immediately when safety concern arises. ● Comply with rules and strictly follow standard operating procedures. ● Always check and confirm; never rely on assumptions. ● Promptly communicate information without omission to ensure safety. ● Deal with problems quickly and appropriately without underestimation. 01 EDITORIAL POLICY CONTENTS The JAL Group has published this JAL Report 2019 to inform stakeholders about business Message from the President 04 Message from the President activity outcomes in the previous year, mediumand long-term management strategies, and to provide an understanding of the Group’s pursuit of both economic value and social value and efforts to achieve sustainable growth. Business Activities and Strategy 16 History of the JAL Group 18 Value Creation Process Period covered by the report JAL Group’s Basic Stance on Value 20 Primarily April 2018 to March 2019 (fiscal 2018) Creation Medium Term Management Plan 25 Scope of the report Rolling Plan 2019 This report covers 142 JAL Group companies, comprising Japan Airlines Co., Ltd., 83 subsidiaries 32 Financial Strategy and 58 affiliates. 36 Human Resources Strategy Reference guidelines 38 JAL Group Business Activities The International Integrated Reporting Framework issued by the International Integrated Value Provided by JAL Group — 44 Reporting Council (IIRC), and the Guidance for Collaborative Value Creation issued by the Commitment to Quality Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, were used as references in creating this report. The 48 Risk Management GRI Standard issued by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) was also used as references for ESG 50 Financial and Non-Financial Highlights JAL REPORT 2019 information. ESG Management 52 ESG Management Approach 54 Environment 59 Customers and Regions 61 Human Rights, Diversity & Inclusion 65 Corporate Governance 77 Supply Chain Initiatives Date of publication September 2019 Financial Data / Corporate Information 82 Financial Data — Eight-year Summary JAL corporate website Evaluation and Analysis of Financial 84 WEB https : //www.jal.com /en / Conditions 94 Consolidated Financial Statements Offers a comprehensive insight into JAL’s business approach and activities in general, as well as 117 Consolidated Subsidiaries investor and CSR information. 118 ESG Data About forward-looking statements This report includes forward-looking statements about JAL Group businesses and outlooks. These statements reflect 120 International Route MAP current JAL Group analysis related to existing information and various trends. Actual performance may differ from current forecasts as a result of business risks and uncertainties. 122 Domestic Route MAP Stock Information / Corporate 123 Information 02 03 MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT Our Approach to Safety and Sense of Security used for pre-flight alcohol tests with the new model that were more precise and prevented improper testing. At the In fiscal 2018, the JAL Group was involved in the causation time of the London incident, we had completed distribution of serious problems and suffered a considerable loss of of the new detectors to all airports in Japan but distribution trust from its customers and stakeholders. In October 2018, to overseas airports was considerably behind schedule and an alcohol-related incident by a copilot caused significant had not been completed. Also, even though a large volume Message from the President concern and inconvenience to society. As President of the of historical test data had been missing, nobody noticed JAL Group responsible for safety, I feel deep remorse and and the situation was left as it was. On December 21, 2018, express my sincerest apologies. this series of incidents resulted in the issuance of a Business Maintaining flight safety is the greatest mission of the JAL Improvement Order to Japan Airlines by the Ministry of Land, Group. Precious lives of our customers are entrusted to Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism. us in our business. This means that the behavior of every Since then, we interviewed all persons concerned, conducted employee can pose a risk to the lives of our customers. reproduction experiments and verification tests as much as This alcohol-related incident threatened safety, the basic possible, and based on the findings, established recurrence foundation of our business, and betrayed the trust of prevention measures such as improvement of tests including Business Activities and Strategy society, which is totally unacceptable. distribution of new breathalyzers, and awareness reform What I find most regrettable is that our organization including education to increase knowledge on alcohol, and should have and could have prevented such an incident submitted a report to the Civil Aviation Bureau on January from happening. As a group of safety professionals, we 18, 2019. are determined to restore public trust by identifying inherent issues within the organization and engaging all 2016 Violation of laws and regulations by cockpit crew (Komatsu incident) After flight duty, a copilot went drinking with the captain at the organizations in working towards resolving those issues June 27 destination (Komatsu), and assaulted the captain and allegedly interfered JAL REPORT 2019 quickly and thoroughly. in the execution of duties of with a policeman who came to the scene. He was immediately arrested. July 13 Serious Reprimand 2017 • 20 alcohol-related incidents occurred caused by alcohol consumption by Background to Receiving the Business cockpit crew. • The copilot in the London incident was suspended from flight duty Improvement Order ESG Management immediately before duty twice in a row due to poor health. • A cabin attendant involved in an onboard alcohol consumption incident 2018 was suspected of alcohol consumption while on duty. On October 28, 2018, a copilot assigned to JAL flight 44 May 22 Inappropriate conduct by a cabin attendant A cabin attendant consumed alcohol in a lavatory during duty aboard JAL underwent an alcohol (breath) test conducted by the London flight 8791 (Honolulu-Kansai) police authorities before starting duty. This was because the June 6 Serious Reprimand driver of the bus carrying the copilot notified the authorities October 28 Scheduled flight delayed due to alcohol consumption by cockpit crew (London incident) after noticing alcohol on his breath. The test showed a breath A copilot assigned to JAL044 (London-Haneda) was arrested for drinking in excess of the legal alcohol limit set under British aviation law. The flight alcohol concentration that exceeded regulations defined was scheduled to be operated by two captains and one copilot but was operated with two captains, because staff simplistically interpreted the Financial Data/ Corporate Information under British law and the copilot was detained by authorities. Manual as allowing a two-pilot complement. After a further blood alcohol test conducted by the November 28 Delayed scheduled flights due to alcohol consumption by cockpit crew (flight delay) authorities, the copilot was found to have violated British The pre-flight alcohol test of a captain assigned to JAC flight 3741 (Kagoshima-Yakushima) showed that he was above the prescribed limit. law and was subsequently arrested and taken into custody. It was clear that normal operations would be hindered, and as a result a total of four flights were delayed. Not only did the copilot consume excess alcohol the previous December 17 Alcohol consumption by an on duty cabin attendant (onboard alcohol consumption incident) day in violation of the company’s Operations Manual but he Yuji Akasaka is also suspected of slipping through the pre-flight alcohol After receiving a report from an overseas-based cabin attendant that a cabin attendant aboard JAL flight 786 (Narita-Honolulu) “smelled of alcohol,” the cabin attendant took an alcohol test and was tested positive. Representative Director, Executive President test conducted by the company. In addition, the captain and December 21 Business Improvement Order second in command assigned to the same flight, who were Serious Reprimand present at the copilot’s pre-flight test, did not notice that test 2019 January 11 Business Improvement Advisory procedures were not followed. January 18 JAL reported on corrective measures concerning the Business Improvement In addition, the flight was scheduled to operate with a Order and Business Improvement Advisory, and JAC reported on corrective measures concerning the Serious Reprimand. three-man complement consisting of the captain, second Types of Aviation Safety-related Adverse Dispositions, etc. in command and copilot, but was allowed to fly without Adverse Disposition Business License Rescission the copilot with the approval of JAL’s relevant department Business Suspension Order in Tokyo However, approval was wrongly given due to Business Improvement Order misinterpretation of the Operations Manual and the flight Administrative Business Improvement Advisory Guidance Serious Reprimand should have been operated with a three-man complement. Verbal Guidance Since June 2016, we have been replacing alcohol detectors 04 05 MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT However, on November 28, 2018 during the Civil Aviation To resolve these issues, we formulated measures based on Future Measures 1. Future Measures 2. Bureau’s onsite inspection period in relation to these the following three pillars and are progressively putting Awareness to Put Top Priority on Safety A Framework and Corporate Culture to matters, JAC flight 3751 was delayed because a cockpit them into action. Solve Problems Thoroughly crew tested position in the pre-flight alcohol test, and on 1. Learn what real safety is! December 17 prior to receipt of the Business Improvement 1. Awareness with safety as basic foundation We revised the Safety Charter to clarify the JAL Group’s 1. Practice the JAL Philosophy with a sense of responsibility! Order, an on-duty cabin attendant on JAL flight 786 was 2. A framework and culture to solve problems thoroughly renewed focus on safety. To help everyone associate We will review JAL Philosophy Education that we provide Message from the President found to have consumed alcohol while onboard. These 3. Organizations that ensure safety their own jobs with safety, and think and increase safety to all employees, and provide venues to learn lessons from events showed that the London incident was not a special awareness, we provide safety education to all Group alcohol-related incidents and other failures reflect on case limited to a specific individual. They meant that the We also established the following three points that employees once a year. whether we are ignoring unfavorable problems in ourselves measures formulated in response to the London incident management should particularly continually implement. or in the organization and think of how we correct this were just stopgap measures, and made us aware that we This is a message from the Committee directed to not only 2. Apply lessons learned from incidents! from actual situations and not only concepts. We will also had to delve deeper in the root cause if we were to truly current management, but also future management. When deliberate violations occur, or people turn a blind eye link education with organizational management to provide attempt to prevent recurrence. to those violations, we will quickly share what happened, opportunities for sharing decisions within workplaces and 1. Continuously pass on lessons learned. Do not let them what was wrong, and what disciplinary action was taken for reviewing implementation. In this way, we provide forgotten throughout the company, and raise the sense of urgency educational opportunities for thinking about how to Establishment of In-house Verification Committee Business Activities and Strategy 2. Continuously develop human resources who can solve within the organization to prevent recurrence and warn practice the JAL Philosophy with an awareness of our problems through decision-making and actions with an others who might make the same mistake. rigorous responsibilities. Based on this awareness, we established an in-house understanding of root problems Verification Committee led by myself as company president. 3. Develop environments where staff can concentrate on 3. Understand each other better! 2. It is the leader’s duty to solve problems! I personally selected persons with expertise in an objective their work with peace of mind We conduct cross-assignments to understand different We will work to improve problem-solving capabilities of position to serve on the committee. duties between jobs, to strengthen ties between mutually leaders in order to increase sensitivity to issues within the The committee started by reviewing the facts and the few We concluded the in-house Verification Committee report related professionals, and to remove hazards. organization and enable them to accurately assess the JAL REPORT 2019 years leading to the issuance of the Business Improvement with the following words. situation, analyze factors multilaterally and make the right Order. We then looked at lessons learned from the Mount 4. Let’s start from communication! decisions even when faced with difficulties in dealing with Osutaka accident and other past incidents related to the Start now to raise awareness and think about the Workplaces that encourage employees to speak up are issues. We will introduce and gradually expand external current problems. In addition, we gathered opinions from verifications by the Committee and recommendations in this important for removing hazards. We are strengthening training starting with Managers, regardless of in frontline employees involved in the incidents, JAL Group employees Report, voluntarily put them into action, and change your initiatives that deepen mutual bonds because lively sections or back offices, to strengthen their assessment ESG Management in frontline sections, frontline back offices and Head Office awareness through action. communication within the workplace leads to mutual capabilities to grasp their level of awareness, crisis departments, external directors with extensive knowledge, These measures may continue for a long time but we must understanding and removes walls between different management capabilities, and problem-solving capabilities. the Safety Advisory Group, and the bereaved families who reach the goal. workplaces and jobs. know Japan Airlines well. Based on this information, the We would like to build a company where every staff thinks, 3. Distribute information to the right people! committee members raised questions, exchanged opinions, “It is my pride and joy to work for JAL. I will fulfill my We will revise internal communication systems to ensure that and considered and verified issues that were the underlying responsibility as a professional.” the right information is provided at the right time to the and root cause of these cases and measures and methods to “JAL is a trustworthy company. JAL is safe and provides a right people and organizations without bias. While revising Financial Data/ Corporate Information solve them. sense of security. I can put my trust in staff who work for Group-wide Measures information and communication tools for each level, we will As a result, we identified the following six substantive JAL.” To customers and society, this is the “corporate value make sure to provide optimal and clear information so that Awareness to put top priority on safety issues. of JAL Group.” Let’s work together and move forward, frontlines always feel a sense of unity with management. In believing that this will lead to the happiness of every staff! 1. Learn what real safety is! this way, we will provide opportunities for every employee 2. Apply lessons learned from incidents! 1. Are you being aware of issues which could lead to to treat events as their own problem and think of actions to 3. Understand each other better! safety problems? These are continuing initiatives, but I feel that we can 4. Let’s start from communication! take, and for management to grasp developments across the 2. Can you speak up when you think that something is overcome them as long as we are aware of our problems Group. We will ensure that necessary information is shared wrong? and issues. The reason is that we have rebuilt the company in workplaces in an accurate and timely manner in order to A framework and corporate culture to solve problems thoroughly 3. Aren’t you concealing unfavorable information? based on these reflections. I promise to draw on lessons improve organizational performance and encourage mutual 4. Do you give individual, personal attention to staff? learned from these incidents including recommendations 1. Practice the JAL Philosophy with a sense of responsibility! communication. 2. It is the leader’s duty to solve problems! 5. Do you understand the purposes of your duty? from the Verification Committee and grow into a company 3. Distribute information to the right people! 6. Aren’t you thinking nothing but to fly the aircraft? that can continually provide even higher levels of safety and sense of security. Organizations that ensure safety Issues relating to organizational culture and employee awareness as well as safety issues were consistent with 1. Organizations that give individual, personal attention! my own feelings that there was an organizational 2. Health management is safety management! 3. If you are hesitant, consult! culture of avoiding trouble, lacking concern for others, 4. The Operation Division oversees daily flight safety! underestimating risks, and mistaking the purpose and 5. Do not overlook latent risks! method. 06 07 MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT Deployment 000000000000000000000000000 Flow of Measures to Resolve Issues For reliable realization of problem solving, we will deploy company-wide initiatives at each division, and respond voluntarily and independently at each workplace. Society and Customers Future Measures 3. Disclose and Explain Organizations that Ensures Safety Individual Measures Awareness link problems to safety Do not avoid conflicts and trouble Mind health as safety management Do not avoid or ignore problems. Point out and report. Understand and share information correctly Promoted by divisions and Group companies 1. Organizations that give individual, personal attention! 3. If you are hesitant, consult! Hold customized Safety Education Follow up on JAL Philosophy Education We will review the way organizations should be in order We will establish an internal safety hotline to create an Efforts by division and Promote understanding among job types Improve organizational problem-solving skills Group companies to pay individual attention to employees and respond environment that facilitates whistle blowing on hazards and Set up communication environment Organizations that pay individual, personal attention to staff Message from the President Supported by General Affairs, Corporate Safety and Security, appropriately to those who need individual care. We prevents personal problems, such as drinking. The hotline and Human Resources divisions will develop environments to support individuals, where will deal with problems that are difficult to discuss including Redesign Safety Education Review JAL Philosophy Education Establish Operations Division Promote understanding between job types Improve problem-solving skills of the organization organization leaders apply mentoring management. consultation on safety concerns that may lead to unsafe Group-wide efforts Establish Risk Management Council Set up communication spaces We will increase the number of frontline support events. Improve internal information communication Improve health management system Supported by General Affairs, Corporate Safety and Security, departments and frontline managers, and actively provide Human Resources divisions opportunities for direct dialogue with frontline employees, 4. The Operation Division oversees daily flight safety! Put top priority on safety Systems and corporate culture to solve issues thoroughly Organization that ensures safety to understand their situation in more detail and respond as The new Operations Division was established as an Advice Continuously follow up on progress necessary. independent division reporting directly to the President, responsible for making the final decision and executing Safety Advisory Group Risk Management Council Coordinate Council for Safety Enhancement Business Activities and Strategy 2. Health management is safety management! quick and accurate action with safety as top priority in daily As precious lives are entrusted to us in our work, the air operations and in the event of irregularities. The operations transportation business must take greater responsibility oversight function was previously established in the Airport than other industries and have reaffirmed that health Operations Division, but by separating it, decision on the problems as not only private matters but also pose a risk premise of safety can be made independently without being On the In-house Verification Committee Report to safety. To prevent increase communication within the influenced by the objectives of other divisions. the Risk Management Council, Operations Division, and organization, with the employees’ understanding, to learn opportunities for communication, (2) measures to improve JAL REPORT 2019 about their health conditions and drinking habits. We will 5. Do not overlook latent risks! the crisis management and problem-solving capabilities of also realize management that pays individual attention The Risk Management Council was newly established the Mission Director and workplace leaders, (3) innovations to employees by strengthening coordination within the directly under the President to provide a mechanism to in information handling and the way communication is organization, and with health management organizations detect latent risks on frontlines and implement measures done, and (4) measures to ensure personal issues are not and industrial physicians. continuously. Taking over the purpose of the in-house Kunio Yanagida ESG Management ignored, such as initiatives to form individual relationships Verification Committee, the Council detects potential and Chairperson JAL Safety Advisory Group in the workplace and the establishment of an internal safety new risks and implements preventive measures. It also hotline. continuously confirms and verifies measures set out in When cockpit crew, cabin attendants, maintenance engineers The overall picture goes beyond the innovative organization the JAL Group Medium Term Management Plan from the and employees in jobs that directly affect safety consume and awareness reform advised by the Safety Advisory Group perspective of safety as the highest priority. alcohol in violation of regulations and then attempt to work, in 2005, and proposes measures that will greatly change and these incidents continually occur, it indicates not only ideas and practice around safety initiatives. laxness in the awareness of employees in the air transport However, the scope of these new initiatives is so extensive Financial Data/ Corporate Information business, which is entrusted with the passengers’ lives, but and broad that any attempt to introduce all of them at once also defects in the organization that could not prevent the could cause considerable confusion. Therefore, the proposed Establishment of the Operations Division problem from spreading. It means that the company’s safety measures must be separated into groupings according to culture is on very shaky ground. factors such as the level of urgency, whether they are President Looking at the problem from this perspective, issues that to be implemented along with organizational reform, the JAL Group as a whole must address go beyond just or whether they require serious attention such as with Safety General Manager eliminating alcohol-related incidents. A lax safety culture awareness reform, and then they must be implemented on within an organization means that terrible accidents the frontline one at a time. Corporate Safety & Security Operations Division could happen anywhere and anytime, which indicates the For issues that individual employees will need to learn, possibility of severe hidden risk. such as leadership improvement, information handling, The in-house Verification Committee Report, with due and communication problems, a handbook will have to be Airport Production General Affairs Other divisions consideration to this situation, probes the root causes of developed with a series of scripts for confirming model case Operations divisions this laxity in the organization and lax awareness, identifies studies and failures, and workshops will have to be held in problems and lists specific issues, and then puts forward each workplace to ensure proper implementation. measures to ensure resolution. Among the extremely It is anticipated that issues identified and advice proposed in diverse measures put forward are (1) an organizationthe in-house Verification Committee Report will penetrate focused transformation starting with establishment of deep into the hearts and minds of all directors and employees. 08 09 MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT Achieving the Long-term Targets of the “Grand Design” Progress of the Medium Term Management Plan JAL Group Medium Term Management Plan Rolling Plan 2019: Positioning and Aspirations When I was appointed President in April 2018, we In February 2019, we announced the JAL Group Medium appointed a new management team, which will take over Term Management Plan Rolling Plan 2019, which was and continue to implement the JAL Group Medium Term based on the current JAL Group Medium Term Management Message from the President Management Plan for Fiscal Years 2017–2020 launched in Plan for Fiscal Years 2017–2020. Rolling Plan 2019 is a 2017 under the theme, “Challenge, Leading to Growth.” revision of the Medium Term Management Plan in response Despite the U.S. and China trade war and European political to events of fiscal 2018. instability in fiscal 2018, major world economies maintained Above all else, it was the repeated alcohol-related incidents moderate growth. As a result, it was a fairly good year for that created the urgency for us to rebuild the foundation international air travel and international air freight demand of safety and sense of security. In addition to ensuring JAL achieved an increase in both revenues and profits over implementation of measures to prevent recurrence of the previous year in fiscal 2018. However, our business alcohol-related incidents and similar acts, we will rebuild is founded on safety and sense of security, and the trust the foundation of the company, including our corporate Business Activities and Strategy of customers and society. That is why we remain vigilant culture and human resources development, in line with in operations by asking ourselves whether our strong advice received from the in-house Verification Committee, performance is not concealing a laxity or latent issues, or which verified these issues in depth. whether we can view our positive results as a true reflection At the same time, it is essential that we quickly restore the of the JAL Group. trust of our customers and the general public. The progress of our three management targets for fiscal To achieve this, we have decided to expedite 2018—Safety, Customer Satisfaction, and Finance—is implementation of the current JAL Group Medium Term JAL REPORT 2019 detailed below. Management Plan for Fiscal Years 2017–2020 and accelerate initiatives to achieve the JAL Vision and Grand Design, the company profile we aspire to achieve in ten years’ time. ESG Management 3 management targets JAL Target Indicator FY2018 Results Review of FY2018 • Aircraft Accident (June 2018): Cabin attendant fractures left leg due to sudden turbulence during cruising. Aircraft accidents 1 incident • Serious Incident (May 2018): Aircraft suffers engine trouble after takeoff and metallic parts fall from engine while returning to departure airport. Enforced countermeasures Safety Looking Back at Fiscal 2018 such as shortening inspection intervals. Realize • Improved use of database and internal audits to speedily Financial Data/ Corporate Information “Zero Aircraft Accidents” gather information, and launched new practices. I was appointed President one year ago but fiscal 2018 was Chitose Airport. This was the first time we had experienced and Responses to a Business Improvement Order and Business “Zero Serious Incidents” Improvement Advisory a year of many problems for management and business. the closing of two major airports at the same time. It was a Receiving a Business Improvement Order in response to year we were reminded of the significant impact of natural Serious incidents 1 incident • Incorporated tighter drinking management with reviewed alcohol inspection criteria in the Safety Management System. alcohol-related incidents was very regrettable and caused disasters and the threat they pose to the air transportation • Set up an in-house Verification Committee to identify essential problems and consider corrective action. a serious loss of trust from our customers and the general business. We would like to offer our best wishes to all those public. Then there was the incident in May, where engine affected by the disasters. Domestic • Domestic flights (▲0.4pt from FY2017-end result): Trended up trouble on JAL flight 632 resulted in engine parts falling to The incidents at Kansai International and New Chitose Customer Satisfaction +1.3 Points in FY2018 but dropped from end of OCT when drinking incident occurred. the ground near Mashiki Town in Kumamoto Prefecture, airports were not just natural disasters but led to secondary NPS*1 • International flights (+0.2pt over FY2017-end result): and caused grave concern to nearby residents. While July or human disasters, when the bridge collapsed and power Achieve the world’s top (Net Promoter Score) International Evaluation of Japanese passengers declines as with domestic +2.2 customer satisfaction Compared to FY2017 flights, but on winning SKYTRAX 5-STAR rating, evaluation of brought heavy rains across Western Japan, September saw outages occurred, which expanded and prolonged the by FY2020 initial results Points non-Japanese passengers improved. Typhoon Jebi strike Kansai International Airport and force effects of the situation. We are now more aware than ever its closure, and the Hokkaido Eastern Iburi Earthquake, of the importance of preparing for natural disasters and • Operating profit margin (▲0.8 points year on year) which resulted in a large-scale power outage at New predicting and preventing secondary disasters. Finance Operating profit margin 11.8 % • ROIC (▲0.6 points year on year) Achieve “10% or above operating profit margin” • Due to upfront investments and expenses to handle the and Return on development of airports in metropolitan area in fiscal 2020, “9% or above ROIC*2 (Return on Invested Capital)” Invested Capital (ROIC) 9.5 % the operating profit margin and ROIC dropped. Nevertheless, the “10% or above operating profit margin” and “9% or above return on invested capital (ROIC)” targets were achieved. *1 A performance indicator that measures the customers’ intention to recommend to others. *2 A performance indicator that measures profit that a company generates from capital invested for business activities. Return on invested capital (ROIC) = Net operating profit after tax (NOPAT) / Fixed assets, including future rental expenses under operating leases 10 11 MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT We decided to expedite achievement of targets because JAL Group Medium Term Management 2. Dramatically improving services ESG Management Toward Achievement of these plans aim to fulfill expectations of customers, regions As the needs of our customers become more diverse, we Plan Rolling Plan 2019: Priorities SDGs and communities, improve services and make greater must take advantage of new technologies and dramatically contributions to society and we felt it would lead to 1. Development of airports in Tokyo metropolitan area, improve our services so that we can provide a stress-free The following are examples of important initiatives to restoring public trust and increase corporate value. attracting foreign visitors to Japan, revitalizing regional travel experience to all our customers and personalized achieve the SDGs and how they relate to our businesses. We will implement Rolling Plan 2019, contribute to Japan services to each and every one of them. During the period Message from the President achieving the government’s target of welcoming 40 million Coinciding with Tokyo 2020, metropolitan airports are of the Medium Term Management Plan in particular, we will 1. Environment foreign visitors to Japan by 2020, and support the successful undergoing a broad expansion of capacity. As an official work to improve comfort and convenience by deploying our There is no more time to waste with regard to the problem delivery of the Olympic and Paralympic Games Tokyo 2020 airline partner of Tokyo 2020, JAL will contribute to the new flagship Airbus A350 aircraft on domestic routes and of global warming. The air transportation business emits (Tokyo 2020). Furthermore, we will further drive initiatives success of the Games and prepare for business expansion in realizing the concept of JAL SMART AIRPORT. large amounts of CO2 due to its reliance on fossil fuels. to create new value, develop human resources, and solve international passenger operations in particular. From the perspective of sustainable business, we feel the social issues. While assisting to meet the government’s target of 40 3. Tackling social issues extreme urgency of this problem. The JAL Group began We will solidify the foundation of our organization, make million visitors in 2020 and making preparations to enter an The world and the JAL Group are facing increasingly using its aircraft to take atmospheric observations in 1993 preparations for fiscal 2020, and accelerate initiatives to era of 60 million visitors in 2030, it is essential that efforts diverse and complex social issues. The Group’s business as part of the CONTRAIL Project. By continuing our work achieve the long-term targets specified in the Grand Design are made to attract foreign visitors to regional Japan and to is air transportation, which has a major impact on the on that project, we have taken a leading role in relation to Business Activities and Strategy to ensure that we achieve the Medium Term Management revitalize regions so that they are ready to accept them. We environment and society, and therefore, we must deal with this issue. We have also been developing operational and Plan. will comprehensively connect all our businesses including these issues with a sense of ownership. maintenance procedures for reducing fuel consumption, international and domestic passenger operations, cargo and In the past, the Group tackled social issues individually, but and as part of our commitment to developing alternative mail operations and other businesses, and develop overall going forward, we will take a more concrete approach to fuels, we invested in September 2018 in Fulcrum BioEnergy, strategies to achieve these targets. integrated efforts in line with the broad social challenges Inc., a U.S. sustainable aviation fuel company. defined in the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We will also have to make efforts to achieve the SDGs as a 2. Diversity and Inclusion JAL REPORT 2019 “business.” Therefore, we will re-examine our businesses The air transportation business is one that has traditionally from that perspective and incorporate this approach in our promoted the advancement and active participation of future business plans. women. Lately, we have also seen greater representation of women in pilot and aircraft engineer roles, and with women currently accounting for 49.8% of the JAL Group’s ESG Management Rolling Plan 2019 2017 – 2018 2021 onwards Restoring public trust and increasing corporate value Financial Data/ Corporate Information Meet the expectation of customers, regions and society Accelerate ongoing initiatives Accelerate the realization of the “Grand Design” FY2020 Expand networks Business Environment FY2027 Target Innovate better products and services • Development of airports in metropolitan area Expand business domains • 40 million inbound passenger target Grand Human resources and technology • Olympic and Paralympic Games Tokyo 2020 Design Rebuilding Safety and Sense of Security Inspect JAL Group thoroughly from a safety perspective and reshape the company 12 13 MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT workforce, new female perspectives and energy are driving Considering future growth of inbound demand, regional our business considerably. Japan tourist destinations also make a strong contribution Female participation has proven that leveraging the to international passenger operations. The JAL Group, individuality of each employee to achieve diversity creates which operates at many airports and offices across Japan, new value. In future recruitment plans, we intend to further aims to contribute to community-based development and accelerate Diversity and Inclusion through an even more revitalization that is genuinely needed by the region. Message from the President diverse workforce, including not only women but also In regions with dramatically shrinking populations in people with disabilities and foreign workers. We are already particular, we should focus on fundamental issues to achieve feeling a strong positive effect in the workplace, with a sustainable cities and communities, such as human resources more open atmosphere in frontline divisions and a greater development and exchanges. commitment to work. We will continue developing human resources to create vibrant work environments and improve competitiveness for the JAL Group. Establishing a New Medium Term 3. Human Rights Management Plan Business Activities and Strategy As an airline with global operations, it is critical that we operate our business with due consideration to the human We have decided to bring forward Rolling Plan 2019 one rights of a range of stakeholders. In our Code of Conduct, year and implement initiatives for fiscal 2020, the final year With the development of airports in metropolitan area, Future of the JAL Group established in July 2019, we specify our efforts to develop of the JAL Group Medium Term Management Plan for Fiscal the air transportation business will experience a temporary a corporate culture that respects the human rights of all Years 2017–2020. In other words, while finishing off this increase in competition as flight numbers increase sharply. Recent innovations in technology will not only change stakeholders, and commit ourselves to incorporating human Medium Term Management Plan, we are also establishing a Despite this, we envision a steady increase in air travel the way people work but also dramatically change the rights due diligence mechanisms into our business processes. new Medium Term Management Plan for implementation demand across the Asia Pacific region and a comparatively way people create value. More than ever, I think the JAL REPORT 2019 In accordance with this policy, the JAL Group aims to from fiscal 2020. Particularly important in the new plan is quick return to a tight supply and demand situation. In future will put to the test not only human capabilities, conduct highly effective human rights initiatives as a trusted the creation of a concrete blueprint for realizing our Grand this environment, we will work steadily to improve our but human character and human nature. This also applies member of society. Design, which are long-term targets which was outlined in competitiveness and achieve sustainable business growth. to organizations and companies, which are groupings of the current plan. While serving all air travel markets as both a full service people. I would like every employee of the JAL Group 4. Regional Revitalization During the period of the new plan, effects of Japan’s carrier and low-cost carrier, we will expand our global to become a person respected by society, and for our ESG Management In light of the size of volatility within international declining population and aging society will appear, and network by making full use of partnerships with global Group itself to become a company composed of respectful passenger operations, the importance of stable domestic advances in AI and other technological innovations will be airlines. employees. passenger operations is huge, but domestic passenger felt. Therefore, we must consider business strategies that On the other hand, growth in the air transportation business Now and always, the Group’s greatest strength and asset is operations are dependent on vitality in regional Japan. focus on human resources more than ever before. also means increased volatility risks, which is a feature of its service capabilities. The heart of our services will make this business that is greatly impacted by social conditions. great contributions in a range of areas in the future. I would We will also have to meet a new range of service needs like to build a company that creates services and innovations in response to the creation of a tourism-oriented country, that protect and enrich lives and society. We need to free Financial Data/ Corporate Information an increase in inbound demand, regional revitalization, ourselves from of the traditional concept of a “full service diversifying markets and other changes. In view of these carrier” and instead grow together as a “super full service assumptions, we strongly believe that we need to enhance provider” that enriches lives. To continue to be “the world’s most preferred and valued airline” in order to realize the JAL Group Corporate Policy, we will maintain flight safety and strive to achieve the following goals through the joint efforts of every staff who supports the “Wings of JAL”: services and expand businesses in areas other than the With this picture of the future in mind, we remain steadfast Transform JAL Create new values Achieve sustainable air transportation business. We will therefore tackle new to our commitment to rebuild the foundation of safety and into a truly global one step ahead of growth business domains created through new technologies. sense of security. We aspire to become “the world’s most airline competitors As a Japanese carrier, we will leverage Japan’s We will continue to embrace new challenges and be Being in a competitive and volatile industry, From the long-term perspective, establishing concrete preferred and valued airline,” never forgetting the support uniqueness and strengths, many of which are one step ahead of competitors in the industry. We will we will continue our focus on balancing acclaimed around the world, and further expand our continuously work to create relevant and inspiring growth and stability. To accomplish this, we targets related to achieving the SDGs by 2030, and we have received from society. We will do our utmost to live business in global markets. We aim to become an value offerings. To accomplish this, we will treat each have set dual goals of both high profitability airline that is recognized and supported by and every customer encounter as unique, and provide and financial stability. We will actively invest incorporating them into our business strategies will up to the expectations of our stakeholders. customers in both Japan and around the world. To a unparalleled travel experience by combining human in future growth, distribute profits to accomplish this, we will promote diversification of resources and technology. customers, shareholders and staff, and contribute to business expansion and development and the I would appreciate your continued support. values and human resources, and adapt flexibly and contribute to regions and society. speedily to global changes. creation of a sustainable society. We are also steadily promoting a number of initiatives in Within this 10-Year Grand Design period, we will the current Medium Term Management Plan that head in • Serve over 500 major cities in the world • Provide a stress-free travel experience •Maintaining the profit margin target the direction of the new Medium Term Management Plan. • Have 50% of revenue from overseas for all our customers of 10% or above, achieve Operating sales for international passenger • Create new businesses and services that Revenue 2 trillion yen / operating In other words, the new plan will become the starting operations stimulate air travel demand profit 250 billion yen / market • Professionals who can dynamically • Adopt new technology to improve capitalization 3 trillion yen line and “seed” for growth, and will present a concrete •Maintain safe operations and lead accommodate multi-cultural and quality and productivity, and assign development of the aviation industry road map toward the Grand Design and an evolved Grand Yuji Akasaka diversified markets and environments optimal human resources to value-added business fields •Actively contribute to tackling social Design. Representative Director, issues such as SDGs Executive President 14 15 HISTORY OF THE JAL GROUP Since its establishment, the JAL Group has developed its business to meet the needs of the times. Following bankruptcy in 2010, the Group was given the opportunity to restructure, and since then has been progressing steadily focused on the goals of delivering unparalleled service to customers and contributing to the betterment of society. Message from the President 1951-2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Rebirth of JAL 1951 2011 2013 2015 2017 August: April: Commences operations June: JAL SKY SUITE named Best Business September: Starts the JAL September: Launches Narita=Melbourne route Establishment of Japan Airlines with a new “Tsurumaru” logo Class Airline Seat worldwide at Skytrax’s Nadeshiko Lab Launches Narita=Kona route April: Commences a joint 2013 World Airline Awards November: Inaugurates December: CONTRAIL Atmospheric Observation business with American Airlines July: Launches Narita=Helsinki route Tokyo=Dallas/Fort Worth Project receives the Environment Minister’s Award for 1970 2012 route Global Warming Prevention Activity in the International Business Activities and Strategy Contribution Category February: April: Inaugurates the Boeing 787-8 on the Lists on the first section of a number of stock exchanges JAL’s new “Tsurumaru” logo new Tokyo (Narita) = Boston route September: Relists on the first section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange 2014 2016 2018 January: JAL and JAC (foreground) JAL Nadeshiko Lab October: Commences a joint business with April: Commences a October: Commences a joint receives MLIT Award for 1985 British Airways December: Inaugurates Tokyo (Narita)=San joint business with Finnair business with Iberia December: Launches Promoting Barrier Free Measures JAL REPORT 2019 August: Diego route Delivery of JAL’s first Boeing 787 Dokokani Mile service JAL flight 123 accident Formore For details,please please refer moredetails, to JAL’s refer to JAL’sHistory Historyonline online https://www.jal.com/en/outline/history/ http://www.jal.com/en/outline/history/ 2010 Operating Revenue FY2018 ESG Management (Billions of yen) 1,487.2 January: Files for reorganization FY2017 proceedings under the Corporate FY2014 FY2015 1,383.2 Reorganization Act FY2013 1,344.7 1,336.6 FY2016 1,309.3 1,288.9 FY2012 FY2011 1,238.8 1,204.8 Financial Data/ Corporate Information FY2018 Topics April: Awarded fourth place, 2018 Top 10 Airlines World, and October: Starts code sharing with Garuda Indonesia November: Launches JAL Global WALLET February: Launches Haneda=Manila route first place, Best Airline Japan (second consecutive year) from Starts code sharing with Vietjet Air Receives Most Consistent Winner award for on-time performance Starts code sharing with Fiji Airways TripAdvisor® Travelers’ Choice™ awards from Cirium JAL STEAM SCHOOL and Dokokani Mile receive 2018 Good Design Starts code sharing with Vistara May: Opens JAL Innovation Lab Award Receives Asia Pacific Airline of the Year 2018 award from airline Starts code sharing with Aeromexico July: Certified as 5-Star Airline and Best Economy Class Airline Seat by Receives Award for Excellence in Corporate Disclosure Industries think tank CAPA Skytrax March: Establishes ZIPAIR international mediumand long-haul lowTransportation from the Securities Analysts Association of Japan Receives Jisa Biz award for promoting staggered commuting from cost carrier September: Signs comprehensive partnership agreement with Garuda Certified as a Gold company in the PRIDE Index for LGBT initiatives the Tokyo Metropolitan Government Indonesia Launches Narita=Seattle route (third consecutive year) January (2019): Establishes JAL Business Aviation Co., Ltd. business Receives Grand Prize in Ikuboss Award 2018, the first in the jet company Seven companies of the JAL Group selected in White 500 category transportation industry of 2019 Certified Health & Productivity Management Outstanding Recognized by Cirium as the best Asia-Pacific Major Mainline Airline Organizations Recognition Program in 2018 for on-time performance (seventh consecutive year, ninth win) Receives second prize in the Advanced Category, 2019 J-Win Diversity Awards Establishes Japan Airlines Innovation Fund Selected as a Fiscal 2018 Tokyo Sports Promotion Model Company 16 17 VALUE CREATION PROCESS To realize the JAL Group Corporate Policy and continue to be “the world’s most Mediumand Long-term Targets JAL GROUP preferred and valued airline,” we use the Group’s management resources for business CORPORATE POLICY development, bringing together the individual strengths of the JAL team, to offer new value to customers and society. Achieve the Grand Design* Safety is the basis of existence of the Group, and the JAL Philosophy and the amoeba Quality Transform JAL into a truly Message from the President management system support our value creation. Provided to global airline Customers Cities serviced: 500 Percentage of revenue from overseas sales in On-time operations Key Management international passenger operations: Resources Business Strategies 50% Financial capital Professionals who actively participate Saf et y an d Sen se o f S e c ur i ty Financial foundation for growth Airports in a diversifying industry Business Activities and Strategy The JAL Group Equity: 1.16 trillion yen × M e d iu m Te rm M a n a g e me n t P lan Supports safe, Will: (Equity ratio: 57.4%) secure and Create new values one step Reservations comfortable air travel Cargo & Mail ahead of competitors Pursue the material Production capital & Sales JAL Amoeba and intellectual Aircraft to meet a wide range of needs Offers services Providing a stress-free travel Provides quality Management Number of Group aircraft: 235 customer service to meet Philosophy System adapted to the nature of the cargo in the air experience for all our customers growth of all our employees; JAL REPORT 2019 customer needs. freight and airmail Intellectual capital transportation Creating new businesses and services sectors C o mfo rt Accumulated operational know-how Safety Total hours on drills and training: Assign optimal human resources to Deliver 2.4 million hours/year value-added business fields ESG Management unparalleled Human capital Maintenance = service to our Back Offices Diverse human resources with considerable experience Ensure aircraft Achieve sustainable growth customers; Plans the finest Consolidated employees: safety through services and supports preventive Operating profit margin : 10% or above 34,003 frontline staff to deliver service excellence maintenance Operating Revenue : 2 trillion yen and Social capital : 250 billion yen Convenie nce Cabin Operating profit Flight Global network Attendants Total market capitalization : 3 trillion yen Increase corporate Financial Data/ Corporate Information Operations Airports serviced: 95 Provides customers with safe and highProvides a refreshing and inspiring customer experience in flight Contribute to development of value and quality flights the aviation industry contribute to the Natural capital Limited natural resources betterment of Contribute to solving social issues including SDGs society. As of March 31, 2019 * Grand Design: A business plan with numerical targets to be achieved by FY2027 18 19 JAL GROUP’S BASIC STANCE ON VALUE CREATION To continue to be “the world’s most preferred and valued airline” and realize the JAL Continuous improvements through the Safety Management Safety Advisory Group Group Corporate Policy, we use the Group’s diversified capital for business development, System (SMS) In August 2005, the JAL Group established the Safety bringing together the individual strengths of the JAL team, to offer new value to society. To ensure a high level of safety, management, Corporate Advisory Group, comprising a panel of five experts with Safety is the utmost priority for the Group. In any and all situations, we will ensure safe Safety & Security and each division implement and extensive knowledge and experience in human factors, and reliable air travel for our customers. For this reason, all members of the Group, from organically link their PDCA safety cycle to ensure proper analysis of failures and defects, organizational management Message from the President those directly involved in flight operations to those involved in business operations, will functioning of the SMS. and culture, and safety to provide the Group with wideapply the best of their of their knowledge, technologies and capabilities to their jobs as ranging advice and recommendations on safety from an safety professionals. PDCA Cycle as Part of the SMS objective specialist’s viewpoint. In fiscal 2018, the members Management Divisions provided valuable advice and recommendations and The Group Council for Safety Divisions facilitate operation of Enhancement General Meeting receives the SMS at the division level and pointed out issues to be addressed through dialogues with reports on achievement of safety targets, report status of operation and Safety and Sense of Security Committee*2 has been established as a committee under the safety audit results, progress of safety improvements to management employees and inspections at 11 locations centered on Flight Group Council for Safety Enhancement General Meeting to measures, occurrence of serious and Corporate Safety & Security. Operations and Cabin Attendants divisions of Japan Airlines accidents and problems, and status of Corrective action is taken based Safety Charter maintain and strengthen coordination on safety initiatives preventive measures and measures, Plan Do on results of implementing the and Group airlines, and follow-up meetings with Group decides necessary action and gives PDCA cycle and with instructions The JAL Group has created a Safety Charter as a code of among divisions and Group airlines. instructions as management to Action Check from management and management, and the in-house Verification Committee. execute them. Corporate Safety & Security. Business Activities and Strategy conduct based on the Group’s basic stance on safety. As recommended by the in-house Verification Committee Safety Advisory Group Members Safety Charter established to examine alcohol-related incidents, we revised Plan Do Kunio Yanagida (Chair) Non-fiction writer, critic Safety: The protection of lives. the Safety Charter and further clarified the definition Action Check Professor Emeritus, University of Tokyo, Representative of This is the commitment and basic foundation of business Plan Do Yotaro Hatamura Hatamura Institute for the Advancement of Technology and positioning of safety. To achieve the Group shared continuity for the JAL Group. Action Check Professor Emeritus, National Defense Academy of awareness and rebuild safety as a professional organization Shinichi Kamata We take to heart our mission and responsibility as safety Japan with safety as the main priority in all organizations, all professionals to ensure a safe operation on every flight with Corporate Safety & Security Senior Technology Advisor, Research Institute for Shigeru Haga JAL REPORT 2019 Corporate Safety & Security facilitates operation of the SMS at the Group level. employees have engraved in their minds the new Safety the best of our knowledge, skills and abilities. Corrective action is taken based on findings, instructions from management and Social Safety, Professor Emeritus, Rikkyo University To accomplish this, we will act according to the following reports from divisions, Corporate Safety and Security reports status of operation and Professor, Faculty of Science and Engineering, Charter as they work to rebuild safety and sense of security improvements of the SMS to management, identifies issues in each division and Akinori Komatsubara Waseda University for JAL. principles. gives instructions on improvement. • Stop immediately when safety concern arises. Fiscal year 2018 in retrospect Group safety management system • Comply with rules and strictly follow standard operating Passing on an austere safety culture and cultivating safety As a result of inappropriate alcohol-related incidents by ESG Management procedures. To maintain uniform and high levels of safety across the JAL awareness copilots and cabin attendants since May 2018, the Ministry • Always check and confirm; never rely on assumptions. Group, all Group airlines including Japan Airlines manage On August 12, 1985, JAL flight 123 crashed on the ridges of of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism (MLIT) issued • Promptly communicate information without omission to safety according Group shared policies confirmed at the Mount Osutaka and 520 precious lives were lost. To reaffirm administrative dispositions and administrative instructions, ensure safety. Group Council for Safety Enhancement General Meeting.*1 the importance of safety and to instill lessons learned in our that is, a Business Improvement Order and a Business • Deal with problems quickly and appropriately without In addition, the Group Operational Safety Promotion underestimation. minds, we established the Safety Promotion Center in April Improvement Advisory related to Securing Safety in Air 2006. To date, more than 240,000 people inside and outside Transportation. As a scheduled air transportation operator, the Company have visited the center. we understand the extremely grave nature of the situation Financial Data/ Corporate Information Safety Management System The JAL Group continuously conducts Safety Awareness that caused a serious loss of trust from customers and Education based on the Three Actuals Principle (the actual society. We express our deepest apologies and are aware JAL Group Companies JAIR, JTA, JAC, RAC, HAC place, objects and people) to ensure that lessons learned that drinking problems are serious problems that affect Group Council * 1 Chairman for Safety from past accidents are passed on and that employees safety. We are therefore making Group-wide efforts to Executive Enhancement Members President maintain a high level of safety awareness. Employees learn prevent recurrence within our SMS. President General Meeting Special Committee Chairman Safety Safety what can and must be done to realize safety by ascending * For more details on the background to this drinking problem and measures on Alcohol-related General General taken, please refer to the Message from the President. Measures Manager Manager the ridges of Mt. Osutaka, the site of the JAL 123 accident *3 Chairman * 2 (the actual site), seeing aircraft debris at the Safety The JAL Group establishes yearly safety targets according to General Manager, Group Executive Corporate Safety Operational Members Officer of Promotion Center (actual objects), and meeting people the JAL Group Medium Term Management Plan for Fiscal & Security Safety Promotion Safety Committee who experienced the accident (actual people) by watching Years 2017–2020. Although we aimed for zero aircraft Special General General General General Safety news footage of the accident and video interviews. In fiscal accidents and zero serious incidents in fiscal year 2018, one committees on General Manager, Manager, Manager, General Manager, Manager, committees in Safety committees alcohol-related Flight Engineering & Cabin Manager, Airport Operations Cargo & each division (names vary by company) year 2018, 1,909 employees attended the Safety Seminar aircraft accident and one serious incident occurred. Again, measures in Operations Maintenance Attendants Mail each division for New Employees, 375 employees participated in the we apologize to those affected for any inconvenience or Manager, Flight Manager, Manager, Cabin Manager, Manager, Manager, Special committees on *3 Operations Safety Engineering & Maintenance Attendants Safety Station Operations Safety & Quality Business alcohol-related measures Safety Promotion Seminar and 209 employees, in the Safety concerns caused. Planning Affairs (names vary by company) Promotion Management Promotion Promotion Seminar for New Managers. Details of this aircraft accident and serious incident are available on the following page. *1 Council responsible for maintaining flight safety throughout the Group, and promoting safety management, according to the Group’s principles and policies. *2 Committee placed under the Group Council for Safety Enhancement General Meeting responsible for increasing safety in air transportation of the JAL Group by maintaining and strengthening coordination on safety initiatives among divisions and Group airlines. *3 Committees responsible for managing alcohol-related risks of the JAL Group. 20 21 JAL GROUP’S BASIC STANCE ON VALUE CREATION Data on Incidents with investigations and will implement necessary measures. JAL Philosophy The following measures are being taken. The JAL Group undertakes active disclosure of safety data so • A general inspection of high pressure turbine rotor blades on Basic stance Fiscal 2018 initiatives that customers can put their confidence in our services. engines of all 35 JAL Boeing 767 aircraft installed with the same As we stand on the start line of revitalization, we deeply To deepen our understanding of the JAL Philosophy and put engine type were examined with a borescope, and no problems reflect and regret the significant inconvenience caused it to practice, we conduct JAL Philosophy Education seminars Aircraft accident (1 incident) were found. to many people, and at the same time, we are filled with three times a year for everyone engaged in JAL products Message from the President Cabin attendant on JAL flight 514 injured due to turbulence • The interval of borescope inspections of high-pressure turbine gratitude for being granted the last chance to rebuild the and services. Facilitators are selected from various divisions, (June 24, 2018) rotor blades on this engine type were shortened from every 400 company. We are resolved to part with the past and create a such as Cockpit Crew, Cabin Attendants, Engineering & On June 24, 2018, JAL flight 514 (New Chitose Airport to flights to every 200 flights. brand new JAL. Maintenance, Airports and Sales. Education seminars are Tokyo International Airport) encountered sudden turbulence • The insides of engines are being washed with water to remove “Have we left matters to others?” conducted in the United States, Europe, Asia-Oceania and while cruising, causing a cabin attendant to fall and sustain dirt and wash away any particles that could cause metal “How conscious of profits have we been?” China using Japanese or English teaching materials. injury. A medical examination revealed that she sustained a corrosion. “Have we dealt with customers with deepest feelings of In addition to JAL Philosophy Education, Leader Workshops fractured left leg. On the same day, the event was rated an • Seven engines using high-pressure turbine rotor blades sincerity?” are held once a month for directors and Vice Presidents, and Aircraft Accident by the Civil Aviation Bureau of the Ministry manufactured around the same date as the malfunctioned Based on these reflections, we found it necessary to change three times a year for organization leaders to encourage of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism (MLIT). None engine were unloaded from aircraft. the awareness of every employee and established the mindset change from the leaders down. Business Activities and Strategy of the passengers were injured. JAL Philosophy as the Group shared mindset, values and In December 2018, we held our eighth JAL Philosophy Investigations are under way by the Japan Transport Safety RAC flight 804 experiences runway incursion at landing attitude expected of all persons engaged in JAL products Presentation Meeting, where 10 employees or groups were Board, MLIT to clarify the cause. JAL is fully cooperating (June 14, 2018) and services. selected from among 400 applicants to give presentations with investigations and will implement necessary measures. On June 14, 2018, RAC flight 804 (Miyako Airport to Naha As we study, understand and practice the JAL Philosophy on the theme, “How to learn, understand and apply the JAL The following measures are being taken. Airport) was cleared for landing by air traffic control (ATC), as the shared criteria for decision-making in our everyday Philosophy.” The JAL Philosophy Presentation Meeting will • Cabin attendants: Guidance on “flexible response to the but clearance was cancelled when another aircraft crossed work, it will bind the minds of everyone who supports the continue as a venue to share examples of how to apply the service plan when turbulence is expected” and “responses to the stop line and entered the runway during approach. “Wings of JAL” and drive us forward toward our ambitious philosophies including failures and concerns and to seriously JAL REPORT 2019 turbulence” were added to the regular safety training for cabin The RAC flight continued approach according to ATC goal of becoming “the world’s most preferred and valued focus on putting it into practice. attendants. instructions, was cleared for landing and landed safely. airline.” We will conduct initiatives that promote wider application • Flight Dispatchers: To improve work efficiency, system None of the passengers or crew members were injured. of the JAL Philosophy as we aim to realize the Corporate improvements have been made to automatically download pilot The event was rated a Serious Incident by the Civil Aviation Policy that states that we will “deliver unparalleled service Bureau, MLIT because it corresponded to “a situation to our customers” and “contribute to the betterment of ESG Management reports (PIREP) on turbulence to ground systems. • Cockpit crew: To prevent injury due to turbulence, a regulation prescribed in Civil Aeronautics Law Enforcement Regulations society.” was established to put absolute priority on maintaining safety Article 166, Paragraph 4 (Serious Incident).” in the cabin in the Seat Belt Sign Policy, clearing stating that the As no problems have been pointed out against the Company will fully support the captain’s decision on the use of JAL Group as of date, this case is not included in fiscal the seat belt sign to protect the safety of passengers and cabin 2018 results of management goals in the Medium Term attendants. Management Plan. Investigations are under way by the Japan Transport Safety Financial Data/ Corporate Information Serious incident (2 incidents) Board, MLIT to clarify the cause. JAL is fully cooperating Air Turn Back of JAL flight 632 after takeoff (May 24, 2018) with investigations and will implement necessary measures On May 24, 2018, JAL flight 632 (Kumamoto Airport to *1 Aircraft accident A situation arising from the operation of an aircraft and resulting in Tokyo International Airport) experienced engine trouble fatal or serious injury, an aircraft crash, collision, or fire, damage to the with its left engine while climbing after takeoff and aircraft during flight requiring major repair, or other situation classified as an aircraft accident by the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and returned to Kumamoto Airport. Engine parts fell to Tourism. *2 Serious incident: the ground near Mashiki Town, Kamimashiki District in An incident not amounting to an aircraft accident, but where a Kumamoto Prefecture. A post-arrival inspection revealed recognized danger of an accident occurring was present, such as runway excursion, an emergency evacuation, fire or smoke on board, abnormal damage to the turbine and other parts in the rear of the depressurization, encounter with abnormal weather conditions, or other situation classified as a serious incident by the Ministry of Land, engine. The event was rated a Serious Incident by the Civil Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism. Aviation Bureau, MLIT. Leader Workshops The eighth JAL Philosophy Presentation Meeting Investigations are under way by the Japan Transport Safety JAL Group Safety Report (only in Japanese) Board, MLIT to clarify the cause. JAL is fully cooperating The JAL Group Safety Report is published yearly in accordance with the Civil Aeronautics Act (Article 111-6: Publication of Safety Reports by Domestic Air Carriers). The report presents safety initiatives and other relevant data on six JAL Group airlines in a readily accessible form. WEB https://www.jal.com/ja/flight/safety/report/ 22 23 JAL GROUP’S BASIC STANCE ON VALUE CREATION MEDIUM TERM MANAGEMENT Amoeba Management System PLAN ROLLING PLAN 2019 In February 2019, the JAL Group announced the JAL Group Medium Term Management Basic stance Fiscal 2019 initiatives The amoeba management system is a business management Up till now, we have focused on operating and instilling the Plan Rolling Plan 2019. JAL will strive to restore public trust and increase corporate system that promotes “management by all” by dividing amoeba management system, but to ensure future growth value by rebuilding safety and sense of security and meeting the expectations of all operations into the smallest units and presenting results of and promote human resources development through this stakeholders including customers, regions and communities. Message from the President work in organization in an understandable way. It is based system, we will further refine our business management on the idea that “business management should involve through “management by all” while developing human Medium term revenue and profit targets every employee and not management alone. “Through resources. We will also review the current amoeba Our projections for fiscal 2019 are 1.563 trillion yen in depreciation method change is substantially higher at 180 “management by all,” the capabilities of every employees management system with a focus on creating mechanisms revenue and 170 billion yen in operating profit. billion yen. are consolidated to conduct sound and flexible corporate that more clearly visualize achievements and increase effects Although we expect a decline in profit at the operating In fiscal 2019, we will continue to focus on achieving our management. as we aim to realize muscular management system through profit stage, this is attributable to a depreciation expense management goals and an operating profit of 180 billion efficient use of management resources. increase of roughly 10 billion yen due to the change in the yen, which is one of the targets of our Medium Term Benefits of introducing the amoeba management system depreciation method of aircraft components from fiscal Management Plan, earlier than planned. The introduction of the amoeba management system has Rigorous profitability management 2019. The operating profit forecast in real terms prior to the Business Activities and Strategy clarified the roles and responsibilities of each organization, We will pursue initiatives to continue and deepen and enabled us to identify revenue and costs of each unit improvement of hourly profitability, unit revenue and and visualize achievements and profitability of each unit. productivity of each division and Group company. We As a result, members in each unit have developed a sense will also reinforce cost control according to changes in of responsibility over figures and feel more motivated and the market environment and fluctuations in revenues to creative in their work attitude. maximize profitability and improve risk resilience. In the amoeba management system, every unit prepares JAL REPORT 2019 an annual plan for revenues and costs (Master Plan) and Management by all According to Result Result Plan (Target) Grand Japanese accounting standards implements a monthly management cycle (PDCA) to We will work to bring together individual strengths, FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 Design accomplish the annual plan. The monthly management increase execution capabilities to achieve targets, visualize According to previous plan cycle requires each unit to set action targets at the start of management data more easily, and draw creativity and 2,000.0 each month for the coming month based on the current initiative from every employee to achieve targets. We ESG Management ■：Other 1,563.0 1,600.0 1,487.2 environment. After business results for the month are will also devote more energy ton nurturing leaders with Revenue ■：Cargo and 1,383.2 Mail revenue 328.4 343.0 released, the difference between the target and result management awareness to lead staff. (JPY billion) 310.0 106.0 ■：Domestic 100.0 92.0 is analyzed, and reasons for the difference are clarified Passengers revenue 539.0 528.0 *1 ■：International 518.2 and used to create next month’s plan. In addition to the Efficient use of management resources Passengers revenue annual plan prepared at the start of each fiscal year, We will work as a team to implement muscular management 462.9 530.6 575.0 monthly targets are set, which facilitates prompt responses by improving profitability of each Group division and to changes in the environment. Operating a monthly company, make efficient investments, improve asset 12.6 ■：Operating profit 11.8 (11.5) Financial Data/ Corporate Information management cycle at each level of activities enables all staff utilization, and optimize inventories to achieve efficient use ▲：Operating profit margin (11.3) 250.0 to participate in management. of management resources. ■：Operating profit 10.9 before depreciation After each division confirms its results and targets, business Operating profit method change*2 (JPY billion) (in brackets) results and projections, issues and measures are reported ●：Operating profit by General Managers of divisions and presidents of related margin before depreciation 174.5 176.1 170.0 (180.0) (180.0) companies at the Group Earnings Announcement Session. method change*2 (in brackets) The session is attended by around 160 participants, including the President, all directors, presidents of major related Singapore USD/bbl 67.8 83.9 90.0 90.0 companies and observers, who hold earnest discussions on Fuel/FX kerosene Dubai crude oil USD/bbl 54.9 69.0 70.0 70.0 JAL Group management with the common aim of realizing Markets FX rate JPY/USD 111.2 110.5 115.0 115.0 the Corporate Policy. *1 Reflects the change of the settlement adjustment method for domestic sectors on international itineraries from FY2018. *2 The depreciation method is changed to a new method in which assets are classified to each components, for example, based on economic lives of components, such as aircraft fuselage, engines and cabin interior, and each component is depreciated separately. Group Earnings Announcement Session 24 25 MEDIUM TERM MANAGEMENT PLAN ROLLING PLAN 2019 Focus Point 1 Topic ZIPAIR Established as Japan’s First International Mediumand Long-haul Low-Cost Carrier Expand Networks Background to establishment of ZIPAIR The development of airports in Tokyo metropolitan area scheduled in fiscal 2020 will offer As travel needs and values have become diversified, ZIPAIR will meet diversifying customer needs and serve enormous business opportunities. The additional flight slots at Haneda and Narita airports demand of price-sensitive customers on international destinations on JAL Group’s route network as a JAL Group Message from the President combined will bring an increase of approximately 100 flights per day. On the other hand, mediumand long-haul routes is expected to grow. The airline that delivers different values from those of a full the capacity increase is expected to intensify competition among airlines and produce JAL Group will actively utilize the improved functions of service carrier. dramatic changes in the business environment. Narita International Airport and contribute to achieving the In such an external environment, we will divide our passenger business portfolio from Japanese government’s target of 60 million foreign visitors fiscal 2020 into separate business domains based on routes and pricing to meet the to Japan per year by fiscal 2030. Changes in LCC Passenger Traffic on International Routes diversifying needs of our customers. With our full service carrier business maintaining While refining its full service carrier business, the Group has (Millions of passengers) (%) steady growth, we will continue efforts to improve our competitiveness in the highinvested in Jetstar Japan, which operates on domestic and 20 25 end traveler market and achieve our targets in the Ground Design of serving 500 major international short-haul routes. To further meet the needs 18 21.7 cities worldwide and achieving 50% of revenue from overseas sales in our international of customers with diversifying values, we have established 16 18.9 20 Business Activities and Strategy passenger business. ZIPAIR to operate on mediumand long-haul routes 14 In the low-cost carrier (LCC) business, which is a growing business domain, we have alongside Jetstar Japan. By organically leveraging these two Tadao Nishio 12 13.5 15 established ZIPAIR to tap mediumand long-haul international markets and preparations carriers, we hope to create new demand. Managing Executive Officer 10 General Manager of Corporate Strategy are in progress to launch services. We are also strengthening coordination with our LCC 9.8 1,874 partners on the increasingly competitive domestic routes and short-haul international What ZIPAIR aims to achieve 8 10 Planning 1,506 7.1 routes. In this way, we are building the optimal passenger business portfolio through ZIPAIR targets price-sensitive customers on international 6 5.2 967 business expansion and cooperation with our partner airlines. mediumand long-haul routes that are expected to 4 3.2 5 JAL REPORT 2019 609 2.2 increase, with the aim to become a new airline that offers 2 0.4 0.9 1.5 410 44 291 18 156 values sought by customers with diversifying values. Service 0 66 110 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 launches are planned between Tokyo-Narita and Bangkok on May 14, 2020, and between Tokyo-Narita and Seoul on LCC international passengers (left axis) LCC international share (right axis) July 1, 2020 with preparations under way for services to Source: Civil Aviation Bureau (MLIT) Calendar year statistics ESG Management North America. Passenger Business Portfolio from FY2020 Passenger Business Portfolio from FY2020 Stability High Full Service Carrier Financial Data/ Corporate Information Growth Price range LCC partners Mediumand long-haul LCC [Maintenance High management] Low Domestic Short International Flights Long Flights 26 27 MEDIUM TERM MANAGEMENT PLAN ROLLING PLAN 2019 Focus Point 2 Focus Point 3 Innovate Better Products and Services Expand Business Domains A total of 40 million overseas visitors to Japan are expected and self-baggage drops and use facial authentication, to As part of the Grand Design, the JAL Group aims to to provide services in airport handling, maintenance, crew in fiscal 2020. In this environment, JAL aims to provide a name a few, to realize our concept of JAL SMART AIRPORT stimulate air travel demand, and maintain flight safety and training and cargo handling, and contribute to reaching the Message from the President comfortable travel experience combined with personalized from 2020. lead development of the aviation industry. To accomplish government’s inbound demand targets and to revitalizing and timely services to realize stress-free travel for all Furthermore, maintaining stable operations is our basic this, we are creating new businesses that complement our regional Japan. customers. mission, the premise of for all business activities of the core full service carrier business. We do not intend to simply In the area of travel and transportation, we are working to JAL has ordered 18 new Airbus A350-900 aircraft*1, boasting JAL Group. We are pursuing various initiatives such as diversify our businesses, but instead are implementing coestablish new transportation methods, including business cutting-edge technology, and the first JAL A350-900 entered flight scheduling optimization and use of standby aircraft creation initiatives with partner companies in areas where jets and drones, stimulate air travel demand, and develop service on a domestic route (Tokyo-Haneda and Fukuoka) to improve quality of on-time operations. We are also JAL Group strengths can be leveraged, such as its knowairport infrastructure. on September 1, 2019. The environmentally-friendly A350 strengthening our disaster response capacity by revising how and customer base in the air transportation business. In the area of new market exploration, we are combining provides passengers with enhanced comfort and quiet and multilingualizing our Business Continuity Plan (BCP)*2, Specifically, we are targeting three areas—airline businesses, our customer base with our partners’ know-how to develop cabins through the latest low noise engines and cabin including swift flight operations recovery plan taking into travel and logistics and market development. new business models in Fintech, digital marketing and other Business Activities and Strategy pressure and humidity equivalent to nearly ground level. account recent natural disasters. In the area of airline-related business, an increasing number fields. In ground services, we will install new self-check-in machines of airlines is flying to regions across Japan, triggered by Through these businesses, we aim to create new value and the increase of inbound demand. We will leverage the maximize our own corporate value. *1 13 large-sized Airbus A350-1000 are on order. *2 Response measures to ensure business continuity in the event of unexpected situations. operational know-how we have accumulated over the years JAL REPORT 2019 Business Portfolio Business Portfolio Airline-related business Travel and transportation Market exploration ESG Management JAL’s customer base JAL’s know-how JAL × Partners Financial Data/ Corporate Information Airport Stimulate air travel Ground handling demand Fintech Business jet Cargo and mail Supersonic aircraft and space development Crew training Digital Drones for transportation marketing Maintenance Airport business Airbus A350 First Class (domestic routes) 28 29 MEDIUM TERM MANAGEMENT PLAN ROLLING PLAN 2019 Focus Point 4 Topic Contributing to 2020 and Society Human Resources × Technology Japan will be in the global spotlight in 2020 as it hosts the Olympic and Paralympic Games Tokyo 2020. As an Official Airline The JAL Group is developing professionals who can the use of new technologies across national and industrial Partner of Tokyo 2020, we will contribute to the success of the Games and create a unique JAL legacy to realize the Tokyo 2020 accommodate cultural diversity and actively participate in a borders. In January 2019, we also established the Japan Games Vision of “Sport has the power to change the world and our future*.” We are focusing particularly on the following Message from the President diversifying world. We will improve quality and productivity Airlines Innovation Fund to more flexibly and speedily drive two initiatives to achieve this. by combining our know-how and technologies. By assigning collaboration and co-creation with domestic and overseas * Tokyo 2020 Games Vision (website of the Tokyo Organising Committee of the Olympic and Paralympic Games) the optimal human resources to value-added business fields, startups that have cutting-edge technologies and business WEB https://tokyo2020.org /en /games /vision / the Group aims achieve sustainable growth. models. As part of these efforts, we opened the JAL Innovation Going forward, the JAL Group will continue to combine Lab in 2018 as an open innovation base. From here, its human resources, one of its greatest strengths, and Attracting more foreign visitors to Japan Realizing the JAL SMART AIRPORT concept we created the Lab Alliance in collaboration with NTT advanced technologies to realize innovation and accelerate Communications, NTT DOCOMO, KDDI, IBM, SAP, CTC, growth. The Japanese government has set the annual inbound Looking ahead to 2020, we are installing the latest facilities Nikkei and other companies, where we are promoting tourist target of 40 million by 2020, and 60 million by 2030. and equipment including new self-check-in machines, selfBusiness Activities and Strategy As Tokyo 2020 is attracting worldwide attention, now is baggage drops, and new boarding pass readers for domestic an excellent opportunity to showcase the attractions of flights at Haneda Airport and will progressively expand regional Japan. To contribute to these targets, the JAL them to all major airports in Japan. For international Group will provide opportunities to experience rural Japan. flights at Narita and Haneda airports, we will introduce Specifically, we are planning a Visit Regional Japan for Free technologies to enable facial authentication at check-in Campaign (tentative name) for foreign visitors. By traveling and baggage check-in counters, boarding gates and other to regions across Japan through this campaign, we would locations through joint efforts with airport management JAL REPORT 2019 like to cultivate motivation to visit again and inspire even companies. more international tourists to visit Japan from and after Regarding service, we will provide seamless service of Platform for Innovation Creation 2020. By bringing visitors to various destinations in Japan, providing customers with timely information on their we will also be contributing to regional revitalization. booked flights, boarding and other details by email and smartphone apps, and JAL staff will offer personalized ESG Management serviced to every customers with tablets. Create innovation Through these initiatives, we aim to help create airports where every customer can enjoy stress-free travel NEW NEW experience. Japan Airlines Innovation Fund Lab Alliance Financial Data/ Corporate Information Technology & Data Innovation Lab Partners Idea & Action PoC*1 Human Resources Employee’s wisdom and aspirations on “This is what I want to do or be” Embody the JAL Philosophy NEW “Wings of Creation”*2 Lab members*3 *1 Proof of Concept *2 An intrapreneur audition program *3 In-house system of activities at the Innovation Lab where the skills, knowledge and specializations of employees are utilized. 30 31 FINANCIAL STRATEGY We will strategically allocate capital to increase corporate value, while maintaining a firm financial structure as well as high capital efficiency at the same time. My Role as the CFO of the JAL Group Financial Strategy in the Medium Term of at least 50%. We have achieved a shareholders’ equity Message from the President Management Plan Rolling Plan 2019 ratio of around 60%, showing the progress we have made in creating a solid financial base. We have stepped forward I have been newly appointed as CFO since April 2019. to the next stage, considering the improvement of capital I engaged in strategic route planning for the JAL Group In the Medium Term Management Plan for Fiscal Years efficiency that includes the management of appropriate growth for a long time. In the highly competitive airline 2017 to 2020, we have set a financial target of at least level of cash and deposit amounts on hand. Therefore, our industry, my mission is to implement our financial strategies 9% ROIC (Return On Invested Capital), as a measurement basic policy is to strategically allocate capital to increase that lead to our further growth and value creation through of investment efficiency to check its contribution in corporate value, while maintaining a firm financial structure my experience and judgement that have been developed by the enhancement of corporate value, together with an and high capital efficiency. engaging in the strategic route planning as JAL Group’s core operating profit margin target of 10% or higher for every We are targeting a Single A Flat credit rating or higher Business Activities and Strategy business. year in order to achieve high profitability. We are also well (issued by a Japanese credit agency) to support the strong We will strategically allocate capital to enhance corporate aware of the need to improve capital efficiency, aiming to funding capabilities. Our high capital efficiency and a firm value, while maintaining the high level of profitability and achieve a ROE (Return On Equity) target of 10% or higher at financial structure were highly evaluated by a Japanese solid financial structure that we have been working hard to the same time. credit agency, Rating & Investment Information, Inc. and bring to the current outstanding levels. Moreover, we will In the Grand Design, based on a stable profitability and a the outlook of JAL’s rating was improved to positive in May build trust with our customers, shareholders, society, staff firm financial structure, we will aim for a sales turnover of 2019. We will continue to strive for a Single A Flat credit and all other stakeholders through proactive communication 2 trillion yen, an operating profit of 250 billion yen and rating. JAL REPORT 2019 to ensure orchestration with all the stakeholders. total market capitalization of 3 trillion yen through making Investment in additional aircraft and preparatory costs will growth investments actively, while emphasizing profitability rise in the fiscal year 2019 for the purpose of preparation with a target of operating profit margin of at least 10%. for capacity expansion in the fiscal year 2020. Moreover, we Review of the Fiscal Year 2018 To achieve the above indicators and the Grand Design, we expect temporary supply-demand imbalance will occur in will implement financial strategies, while maintaining a firm ESG Management the fiscal year 2020. As a result, we assume there will be a financial structure and improving asset efficiency and capital temporary drop in ROE and ROIC. However, we will aim to International air travel demand and international air freight efficiency at the same time. return to the target level ROE of 10% or above and ROIC demand remained strong in the first-half of the fiscal year of 9 % or above through continuing profit growth and through increasing inbound passenger demand, backed up Improve asset efficiency and capital efficiency appropriate capital allocation. by moderate economic growth. Although it slowed down in In the previous JAL Group Medium Term Management the second-half of the fiscal year, it still remained on a path Plan for Fiscal Years 2012 to 2016, we had placed a priority Strategical capital allocation to increase corporate value of growth in general. On the other hand, many natural on increasing equity capital amounts and building a solid We aim to maintain cash and deposit amounts on hand Financial Data/ Corporate Information disasters struck Japan in 2018. Despite them, domestic financial base that would establish a firm financial structure from the perspective of stable operation and to treat air travel demand remained to be robust due to special and high resilience to risk. We targeted operating profit any exceeding amounts as additional capital that can be discount fares to aim recovery of leisure demand. The JAL margin of 10% or above and a shareholders’ equity ratio allocated. The appropriate level of cash and deposit on Group recorded higher revenues and operating profits than the previous year through strong air travel demand. From February to March 2019, a new check-in system was Strengthen financial progressively introduced to airports in Japan. The passenger base of Corporate Pension Fund ▲80 Free cash flow*・ Shareholder service system renewal project, in which we invested 80 158 Debt utilization, returns Strategic growth etc. billion yen and spent six years, was finally completed. This investment line ▲50 new system generates yield management with greater precision. The effects of the new system appeared earlier 330 2.6 months’ 2.6 months’ worth of than our plan. worth of Capital allocation revenue revenue (Unit : JPY bn) Hideki Kikuyama Cash & deposits Cash & deposits Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer projection at the Projection at the end of FY 2018 end of FY2020 General Manager of the Finance & Accounting Division *Free cash flow = Cash Flow from operating activities + cash flow from investing activities *Forecast in Rolling Plan 2019 (February 2019) 32 33 FINANCIAL STRATEGY Building Trust with Our Investors Through 700bn yen(vs previous plan +40) FY2018〜2020 and predictability with reference to a payout ratio of Total approximately 35%. In addition, we will proactively and Close Communication Replacement flexibly consider share repurchases, considering its financial vs previous plan Generate Growth investments Investments Strategic growth investments ＋40 position and other factors. As a result, we seek to achieve new to achieve investment line 220bn yen cash flow 480bn yen extraordinary growth 50bn yen a total payout ratio, which combines the total dividends To provide investors a clearer picture of our business and paid out and the total amounts of the share repurchases, of make it easier for them to evaluate us, we have improved Message from the President Aircraft approximately 35% to 50% through appropriately sharing the quality of information content provided at briefings 490bn yen periodic profit and allocating capital among all of its about our management plan and financial results. We ＋ (vs previous plan +40) Under consideration stakeholders. intend to build a relationship of trust with our investors International capacity expansion +30 Change introduction Schedule, etc. +10 At the same time, we continuously strive to improve capital through more direct communication not only between them efficiency through monitoring a total return on equity ratio, and the CEO or CFO, but also senior management of each FY2018 179bn yen FY2019〜20 311bn yen (planned） which is calculated by dividing the sum of total dividends business. In addition, we collect information from meetings paid out and share repurchases by shareholders’ equity. We with investors such as the topics discussed and questions make its efforts to maintain this ratio at approximately 3% raised, and report back to the Board of Directors. Ground・IT, etc. Mediumand long-haul LCC or above. Our proactive IR approach was highly evaluated and we 210bn yen 23〜bn yen Business Activities and Strategy were honored with the 2018 Award for Excellence in Smart airports, improved revenue management, etc. Total Shareholder Return History (FY2012〜FY2019) Corporate Disclosure in the Transportation Industry by the FY2018 59bn yen (JPY Bn) (%) Securities Analysts Association of Japan in October 2018. We 250.0 60 FY2019〜20 151bn yen (planned） will continue to further improve disclosures in quantity and Aircraft Growth investments: Aircraft introduction for new routes, flight frequency increase or improved operational efficiency quality to realize constructive dialogue with markets and Replacement investments: Replace old regional prop aircraft, aircraft parts, or etc. 49.2 200.0 47.7 50 Ground・IT, etc. Growth investments: Improve quality, service or efficiency. Develop new business domains. etc. 44.5 investors. Replacement investments: Replacement of existing old facilities or for compliance to laws and regulation or etc. 171.6 174.4 166.2 164.1 JAL REPORT 2019 150.0 40 Will be determined 149.0 150.8 33.7 135.4 100.0 32.3 114.0 30 To Our Shareholders and Investors hand is equivalent to approximately 2.6 months of annual yen during the same period in the Rolling Plan 2018. Of the 25.1 25.0 25.1 29.4 20.0 operating revenue. To reach this amount, we considered the total investment, 480 billion yen will be used for growth 18.9 33.2 30.0 38.7 20.0 38.3 20.0 50.0 20 amount of capital required for normal operations, including investment. The additional 40 billion yen is for investment Flight safety is the essential foundation of the JAL Group ESG Management 32.3 37.7 43.5 38.3 29.0 seasonality and possible declines in cash flow, in the event for aircraft to strengthen our international passenger 0 10 and we will steadily thrive to rebuilt and maintain concrete 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) of an economic crisis as severe as the global financial crisis business, which will lead our growth. (Forecast) safe operations. In the fiscal year 2020, the airport capacity in 2008. As of today, we will allocate about 23 billion yen to the Net profit Attributable to owners of parent Total Dividends Share Repurchase in Tokyo will be expanded and the Olympic and Paralympic We will strategically allocate the additional capital midand long-haul LCC ZIPAIR Tokyo from the Strategic Dividend Payout Ratio*1 Total Return Ratio*2 Games Tokyo 2020 will be held. As inbound passenger consisting of the free cash flow to be generated and Growth Investment Line. The remaining amounts will be also *1 Dividend payout ratio=Total dividends/Net profit attributable to owners demand is expected to increase continuously, along with of parent* excessive cash and deposits on hand for further allocation. used to enhance corporate value through an extraordinary *2 Total return ratio=（Total amount of dividend + Amount of share these big events, the airline industry in Japan is a growing We plan to use interest-bearing debts to fund growth increase of competitiveness or return. repurchase）/Net profit attributable to owners of parent* industry with big opportunities. *FY2013〜2018 net profit attributable to owners of parent excludes effects Financial Data/ Corporate Information investments, while ensuring financial stability. We will also of deferred income tax Therefore, we will set a new medium term management utilize the 50-billion yen strategic growth investment line plan initiated from the fiscal year 2020 to realize our longeffectively for extraordinary growth. By the first half of Enhancement of Shareholder Returns Appropriate Risk Management term goal, the Grand Design, after reviewing our initiatives the fiscal year 2019, approximately 80 billion yen will be and accomplishments by then. Moreover, to improve injected to the Corporate Pension Fund for strengthening international comparability of financial information in its financial base, reducing debts relating to JAL retirement We regard shareholder returns as one of our most important Airlines are exposed to various risks in their operations. capital markets and communication with our stakeholders, benefits, and proactively mitigating potential financial risk. management matters. Our fundamental policy is to actively We are steadily working to strengthen the Group’s risk we plan to apply International Financial Reporting implement shareholder returns through continuous and resilience. Our policy is to conduct business operations Standards (IFRS) from the fiscal year 2020. The JAL Group Capital investment plan stable dividends and flexible share repurchases, while focused on profitability rather than business scale. For will courageously challenge this major business opportunity For our capital investment plan, we will make growth securing internal reserves for making investments for example, for international passengers, we select new routes of the development of airports in metropolitan area in investments, such as state-of-the-art aircraft or IT system, corporate growth in the future and changing business with profitability as our first priority and optimize our 2020. To ensure its success, we will strategically allocate our actively to generate new cash flows and then enhance environments and to build a strong financial structure. For cabin configuration. Also, to enhance our network, we will capital strategically and enhance shareholder returns in corporate value. In principle, capital investment will be the fiscal year 2019 and the following years, we will focus expand alliances with partner airlines globally. order to increase corporate value with its clear financial and conducted within operating cash flow and we will ensure on “Total Return”, which combines dividends and share Moreover, we use derivatives and other tools to mitigate capital policies. there is always sufficient free cash flow to fund dividends buybacks. risks which have a major impact on the financial I hope this message gives our shareholders and investors a for our shareholders. In Rolling Plan 2019, we plan to In order to maintain a stable dividend level despite the performance of airlines, such as those related to fluctuations better understanding of the financial strategies of the JAL increase the total investment to 700 billion yen, during the upcoming effective tax rate increase, we will decide the in fuel prices and exchange rates. As a result, we have been Group and raises your expectation toward the increase of fiscal years 2018 to 2020, 40 billion yen up from 660 billion dividend per share level, considering its continuity, stability able to eliminate most of the market risks over a three-year the JAL Group’s corporate value and shareholder returns, as time span. we grow into the future. 34 35 HUMAN RESOURCES STRATEGY We create work environments that support motivated and active participation of all employees, and implement initiatives from a long-term perspective At the core of the JAL Group’s human resources strategy is a Using Technology to Streamline Work Health and Awareness Reform, the Foundation Message from the President commitment to creating a company where employees work for Individual Workplace Motivation happily and enthusiastically with motivation. To achieve this, we not only deal with immediate issues but also implement To support the creation of new value, we are driving initiatives from a long-term perspective. technology-based operating process innovation to To enable all employees to be motivated at work, a Changing demographics is a social trend that requires free people from mundane work and creating work foundation comprising health and awareness reform must attention when developing a long-term human resources environments where people can focus on creative and first be created. strategy. Japan’s declining population and aging society professional work that cannot be replaced by automation. We have continuously promoted health management, are particularly important issues affecting the Group’s In fiscal 2017, we introduced Robotic Process Automation in which we established and addressed priority issues in operations. Though happening at different times, all jobs (RPA) and automated a number of operations. While accordance with our JAL Wellness 2020 health promotion Business Activities and Strategy are at risk of labor shortages. In addition to developing operations that were automated are still limited, there have plan and produced results. However, these initiatives human resources across the entire aviation industry, the been cases where use of RPA for simple tasks has freed our were mainly directed at the organizational level and not pillar of our initiatives is to promote diversity, which includes employees from data counting tasks that previously took necessarily the individual level. Accordingly, we will take senior employees and foreign workers, and implementing several days to complete. We will widely share information a new approach to health management, such as adopting technology-based operating process innovation. on these examples within the Group and increase the data health approach and using broad-ranging data to achievements in this field. meet the individual health needs of each employee, Currently, specialist staff are in charge of RPA , but the Regarding awareness reform, we introduced JAL OODA* JAL REPORT 2019 Nurturing Professionals to Achieve True speed in work progress and delivery is limited, needless in fiscal 2018 to develop independent-minded human to say. Therefore, we have established a so-called endresources. In the initial fiscal year, we held workshops led by Diversity user computing system for workplaces to independently a mentor where five or so mentees conducted any activity operate IT systems and have their members promote RPA of they wished without having to produce results. We also held To promote diversity, we have implemented measures that workplace tasks. We are looking to senior employees to lead mentoring management training sessions for advancedESG Management allow all employees to actively participate in the workplace this movement. grade management. Going forward, we will continue to regardless of their personal attributes. However, we believe expand JAL OODA initiatives, including collaboration with a diversity of attributes alone is not enough. Going forward, activities by volunteer employee groups, and cultivate a it will become increasingly important for every one of our culture of independency while working in teams. diverse employees to display a high level of expertise in * JAL OODA is JAL’s original OODA loop (Observe, Orient, Decide and Act), designed to promote organizational and individual independency. their work. When each member of a group consisting of a wide range of attributes has diverse expertise, that group Financial Data/ Corporate Information will improve its capabilities and will survive in a rapidly changing world. For this reason, our human resources strategy includes the nurturing of professionals. Following a career path, 8 initiatives (Action) Goal of human resources strategy (Slogan) these people will acquire the solid expertise needed to Nurture the individuality of each staff who supports (1) Nurture leaders who promote innovation lead our organization forward. In this way, we can nurture JAL’s Wings into value creation professionals who will remain active at work into their (2) Create a group of professional to realize value senior years. creation 4 Commitments 1. Highly aspiring organizations In an era when millions can expect to live for a century, so Build challenging organizations to realize value creation (3) Nurture global human resources it is important to create work environments where senior employees remain highly motivated at work. In addition 2. Power of individuals (4) Promote diversity to developing systems for staff to feel secure in their jobs, Encourage expression of individuality in an atmosphere of mutual respect this includes mechanisms for managers, for example, to (5) Complete workstyle innovation leading to growth acquire the ability to actively participate even after years 3. Job satisfaction and high productivity in a management position. In that sense, our initiatives to Build mentally and physically healthy, highly motivating (6) Promote health management Takuya Oda nurture professionals and promote the active participation and productive work environments Executive Officer, General Manager of (7) Promote JAL Philosophy of senior employees are closely related. 4. Practice the JAL Philosophy Human Resource Management (For more details on Diversity & Inclusion, please refer to page 61.) Practice the JAL Philosophy more intensively to achieve individual and organizational targets (8) Penetrate JAL OODA 36 37 JAL GROUP BUSINESS ACTIVITIES International Passenger Operations preparations. traffic increased 6.3%, revenue passenger kilometers grew between Japan and Hawaii and remote islands other than On the other hand, LCCs continue to enter the Japanese 6.3%, and the load factor reached a record high of 81.3%. Oahu. At the same time, we will steadily capture repeaters External operating environment of international passenger market and intensifying competition is expected. There Furthermore, in addition to improving revenue by offering new styles of travel that cater to individual operations is also the risk of a major decline in air travel demand management backed by high load factors, we also increased needs. The world’s major economies such as Japan and the U.S. due to global economic trends with concerns of rising fuel surcharges, resulting in an increase in revenue per In order to aggressively capture inbound demand on Message from the President have been affected by U.S.-China trade friction and political protectionism, natural disasters, adverse weather, terrorist passenger to 39.3 billion yen. While minimizing flight international routes, which is expected to grow continuously, uncertainty in Europe, but have maintained a steady, attacks, regional conflicts, war, and the outbreak and cancellations caused by typhoons and earthquakes and their we will strive to enhance our competitive advantage in moderate growth. Demand for international air travel and spread of diseases. As international passenger operations is impact on leisure demand, the passenger service system overseas markets. By providing products and services that international airfreight has also remained generally strong. vulnerable to global trends, we will continue to keep watch that was updated in November 2017 operated steadily meet the needs of not only Japanese passengers but also Crude oil prices, which affect JAL Group’s fuel purchasing on the external operating environment. and produced positive results, such as greater revenue foreign passengers, we were awarded the world’s top 5-Star costs and international passenger and international cargo management precision and increased revenue from overseas airline rating in 2018 by Skytrax. The preference indicator of revenues, are fluctuating due to OPEC’s decision to reduce Fiscal 2018 results online sales channels. As a result, international passenger foreign passengers has also improved. We will continue to crude oil production and expectations of U.S.-China trade In international passenger operations, we saw both revenue increased 14.6% year on year to 530.6 billion yen. provide better products and services, increase our presence discussions, making the outlook unclear. strong outbound demand and strong inbound demand, overseas through active sales promotions, and endeavor Business Activities and Strategy The Japanese government has set a target of attracting 40 with inbound demand reaching 31.19 million in 2018 and Future strategy to achieve the JAL Vision goal of 50% of revenue from million overseas visitors to Japan in 2020, the year of the surpassing the 30 million mark for the first time. In order We see the development of airports in metropolitan area in overseas sales in international passenger operations. Olympic and Paralympic Games Tokyo 2020, and to achieve to meet growing demand, we expanded seat capacity fiscal year 2020 as a tremendous business opportunity and this, public-private partnerships are in progress. In 2019, by revamping cabin configurations and also supply by plan to actively expand supply. In addition to the new Tokyothe G20 Osaka Summit and the Rugby World Cup JAPAN operating flights year round on routes introduced in fiscal Narita=Bengaluru route and Tokyo-Narita=Vladivostok will be held, giving rise to expectations of an increase in year 2017 (Tokyo-Narita=Kona, Tokyo-Narita=Melbourne, route, we will continue to expand our network and revamp inbound demand. In 2020, the development of airports in and the second flight between Tokyo-Haneda=London) cabin configurations to increase seat capacity. As a result, JAL REPORT 2019 metropolitan area is scheduled, offering an opportunity for and increasing seasonal flights (Tokyo-Narita=Guam, Tokyoavailable seat kilometers on international routes is expected significant growth in international passenger operations. Narita=Bangkok, Kansai=Honolulu). As a result, available to increase roughly 13% year on year in fiscal year 2020 (up Therefore, we regard 2019 as an important year for making seat kilometers rose 6.0% over the previous year, passenger 15% over fiscal year 2018). To build an optimal network while controlling aircraft numbers and fixed costs, we will promote partnerships with other airlines and strive ESG Management International Passenger Operations Change in International Passenger Revenue to achieve the JAL Vision goal of serving 500 major cities FY 2018 YoY (JPY Bn) +67.7 Bn(+14.6%) worldwide as early as possible. On Hawaii routes, where our Passenger Revenue* 1 530.6 +14.6% •Stable outbound demand (+) •Flight cancellations due to competitor is expanding supply, we will soon launch a joint •Strong inbound demand (+) typhoons and earthquakes (JPY Bn) (524.4) (+13.3%) and impact on leisure demand business with Hawaiian Airlines, and expand our network Revenue Passengers +29.2 ▲8 530.6 9,128 +6.3% (’000) +39.3 Available Seat Kilometers 54,925 +6.0% (MN seat km) Financial Data/ Corporate Information 462.9 •Net unit price (+) Revenue Passenger Kilometers •Change in revenue proration rule for 44,659 +6.3% (MN passenger km) domestic sectors in international Unit Revenue・Load Factor (L/F) tickets (+6.2 Bn) Demand projections and capacity plan •Fuel surcharge (+) L/F (%) 81.3% +0.3pt as FY2018=100 Revenue per Passenger*1*2 58,136 +7.8% FY2017 Revenue per Passenger Impact of FY2018 (JPY) (57,453) (+6.6%) passenger traffic disasters*5 JAL ASK Unit revenue 115 Yield*1*3 11.9 +7.8% Factors of changes in revenue Exclude FSC and FX, as FY2018=100 (JPY) (11.7) (+6.6%) per passenger (estimate) +1% +1% JAL ASK Unit Revenue*1*4 9.7 +8.2% Total demand* 103 L/F (JPY) (9.5) (+6.9%) -0% *1 Effect of change in revenue proration rule for domestic sectors in Route Demand +8% international tickets excluded in figures in brackets composition mix (+) *2 Revenue per passenger = Passenger revenue / Revenue passengers +6% (none) *3 Yield = Passenger revenue / Revenue passenger kilometers FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 FY2021 onwards FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 FY2021 onwards *4 Unit revenue = Passenger revenue / Available seat kilometers *D  emand of full service carrier for the routes both outbound from / Fuel surcharge FX, etc. Change of Net unit price Total inbound to Japan revenue proration rule *5 Effects arising out of heavy rain in July in Western Japan, typhoon from July to September and the earthquakes in Hokkaido in September 38 39 JAL GROUP BUSINESS ACTIVITIES Domestic Passenger Operations revitalize regional economies. In products and services, we offered enhanced inflight In route operations, we will introduce the new A350 aircraft services such a wider selection of video program channels in September 2019 and launch services on the TokyoExternal operating environment of domestic passenger Fiscal 2018 results in inflight Wi-Fi services and new inflight satellite television Haneda=Fukuoka route. The new aircraft will be equipped operations As we were affected by flight cancellations and a decline aboard JAL SKY NEXT-configured aircraft. From 2016, as with First Class, Class J and Economy Class with all seats While we face changes in the macro environment such as in leisure demand due to damages from high waves by part of our project to expand and improve facilities, we and interior designs renewed and installed with a personal Message from the President a declining working-age population in Japan, there are Typhoon Jebi at Kansai International Airport in September renovated the Diamond Premium Lounge and Sakura monitor to offer inflight entertainment for every passenger. also projections of new growth due to expectations of and the 2018 Hokkaido Eastern Iburi Earthquake, we quickly Lounge at Itami Airport in March to offer greater relaxation, In products and services, we will extend reservation and moderate economic development in the lead to the Olympic adjusted supply and demand by quickly shifting aircraft to comfort and functionality in spacious areas. As a result, purchasing periods of domestic tickets from September and Paralympic Games Tokyo 2020 and increasing inbound routes with strong demand such as to Kyushu and strived to domestic passenger revenue rose 1.9% year on year to 528 2019, making it possible to book and purchase airline tickets tourists. The Rugby World Cup will be holding games improve profitability. We further expanded routes operated billion yen. 330 days in advance. In conjunction with our renewed throughout Japan in 2019, bringing more foreign visitors to with the Embraer 190 centered on Osaka-Itami Airport domestic flight reservation web page in May 2019, we will Japan who will not only stay in major metropolitan areas routes and expanded services of Boeing 737-800 aircraft do our best to provide greater convenience when planning but also travel to regional cities. Therefore, the need for installed with JAL SKY NEXT cabin interiors on OkinawaFuture strategy trips without any fuss or stress. transportation is expected to continue to increase. Naha routes operated by Japan Transocean Air. By increasing On domestic routes, strong business demand and increased From FY2020, we will advance initiatives for realizing Business Activities and Strategy In addition to rising inbound visitor numbers, the use of seat capacity, available seat kilometers increased 1.1% year leisure demand including inbound demand are expected our concept of “JAL SMART AIRPORT” at major airports air travel for business and leisure is also rising in Japan. on year, passenger traffic rose 2.4%, revenue passenger to produce strong total demand growth centered on major in Japan, where new technologies will be used to reduce Total demand is expected to continue to grow, centered kilometers grew 2.2%, and the load factor reached a record routes from Haneda. While expanding supply to meet and waiting times at the airport. From 2020, we will implement on major routes departing from Haneda. We will increase high of 72.5%. To restore leisure demand to Hokkaido and steadily capture growing demand, we will further improve these initiatives at major airports in Japan, further supply comparable to the growth of total demand, steadily contribute to the restoration of disaster areas, we offered convenience and comfort. The cutting-edge Airbus A350improving the convenience and comfort of domestic travel. capture demand, and take various steps to offer greater Support Sakitoku special reduced fares and sold travel 900 and the domestic-configured Boeing 787-8 will be Against the background of the Olympic and Paralympic convenience and comfort. products such as Hokkaido Support Discount and Let’s Go put into service on domestic routes from the fall of 2019. Games Tokyo 2020, we will also support efforts to attract JAL REPORT 2019 Due to the opening of new routes by our competitor, with JAL Hokkaido Recovery Discount. Further, for inbound Through the introduction of new aircraft, we plan to the growing number of inbound visitors to regions across the operating environment is expected to intensify. As tourists, we offered reduced time-limited domestic discount increase available seat kilometers on domestic routes by Japan and expand the traveling non-resident population. a company that has operated in the skies of Japan for fares called the JAL Japan Explorer Pass on routes between approximately 3% year on year in fiscal year 2019 and by many years, JAL has gained the trust of customers and will Hokkaido and the Kansai area (Kansai, Itami, and Nanki approximately 1% year on year in fiscal year 2020. While continue to contribute to realizing safe operations and Shirahama) to restore leisure demand. expanding supply, we will also maintain and improve unit ESG Management revenue and load factors. Domestic Passenger Operations FY2018 YoY Passenger Revenue*1 528.0 +1.9% (JPY Bn) (534.3) (+3.1%) Revenue Passengers 34,859 +2.4% Financial Data/ Corporate Information (’000) Available Seat Kilometers 36,116 +1.1% (MN seat km) Demand projections and capacity plan Unit Revenue・Load Factor (L/F) Revenue Passenger Kilometers Change in Domestic Passenger Revenue 26,195 +2.2% (MN passenger km) (JPY Bn) +9.8 Bn (+1.9%) as FY2018=100 Demand of L/F (%) 72.5% +0.7pt •Flight cancellation due to typhoons and JAL ASK Trunk Routes •Increase in individual earthquakes and impact on leisure demand to/from Haneda 104 Unit revenue passengers (+) Revenue per Passenger*1*2 15,149 ▲ 0.5% +16.4 ▲4.0 Exclude FSC and FX, (JPY) (15,328) (+0.7%) 528.0 JAL ASK as FY2018=100 518.2 ▲2.6 103 Yield*1*3 20.2 ▲ 0.2% (JPY) (20.4) (+0.9%) Total demand L/F •Increase in revenue per passenger (including LCCs) due to increased sales of business Unit Revenue* * 1 4 14.6 +0.8% fares, etc. (+) (JPY) (14.8) (+2.0%) •Change of revenue proration rule for domestic sectors in international tickets (▲6.2 Bn) *1 Effect of change of revenue proration rule for domestic sectors in FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 FY2021 onwards FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 FY2021 onwards international tickets excluded from figures in brackets FY2017 Revenue per Passenger Impact of FY2018 *2 Revenue per Passenger = Passenger Revenue / Revenue Passengers passenger traffic disasters*5 *3 Yield = Passenger Revenue / Revenue Passenger Kilometers *5 Effects arising out of heavy rain in July in Western Japan, typhoon from *4 Unit Revenue= Passenger Revenue / Available Seat Kilometers July to September and the earthquakes in Hokkaido in September 40 41 JAL GROUP BUSINESS ACTIVITIES CARGO AND MAIL BUSINESS / OTHER BUSINESSES JAL Group Airlines Cargo and Mail Business Other Businesses J-AIR Co., Ltd. (J-AIR) J-AIR, JAL Group’s principal member airline covering Using JAL Group’s Strengths to Maintain Vital Air Links and regional routes, is based at Osaka International Airport Review of fiscal 2018 JALPAK Co., Ltd. Revitalize Regional Economies (Itami) and operates 232 daily flights on 36 routes (roughly In fiscal year 2018, JAL’s Cargo and Mail Division worked to In fiscal year 2018, JALPAK strove to expand its lineup of JAL Group’s regional network provides air links to regional 30% of these flights are on JAL Group domestic routes). maximize cargo business profitability, increase the value of high-quality added-value products and increase sales of Message from the President cities and outlying islands as an airline with close ties with Over the past few years, the company has introduced transportation services, expand into new business domains. dynamic package products. Although we conducted timely each region. We will continuously contribute to regional the new Embraer 190 with a Class J cabin and has been In international cargo operations, we strengthened partnerships sales promotions to increase sales, higher sales prices from economies by introducing new, comfortable aircraft, expanding its network. It plans to operate the Japan-made with foreign airlines, such as launching an European cargo higher fuel surcharge and increased competition resulted providing a highly convenient network and high-quality Mitsubishi SpaceJet from 2021 and continue growing as a sales partnership with Azerbaijan-based Silk Way West Airlines in a 3.9% year on year decline in the number of overseas services, expanding the non-resident population and competitive regional airline. Communicating the appeal of and undertaking Japanese global sales agent (GSA) operations travelers handled to 222,000. The number of domestic communicating the charms of regional Japan. regional Japan and the Japan for Vietnam-based Vietjet Air Cargo. We also partnered with travelers handled remained strong despite natural disasters, brand, J-AIR will continue the Yamato Group and started a new project, offering total rising 6.8% year on year to 2,718,000, partly attributable Japan Transocean Air Co., Ltd. (JTA) moving forward together with service from export and import procedures for fresh Japanese to demand prompted by the 35th anniversary of the Tokyo Since its establishment in 1967 to connect Okinawa’s main the people of the regions it agricultural and fishery products to local sales in order to expand Disney Resort and high demand for travel to the Okinawa region. With regard to inbound demand, JALPAK expanded Business Activities and Strategy island and outlying islands, JTA has worked with integrity to serves. sales channels to Japanese producers and contribute to enriching maintain safe operations and aviation security for 52 years. the lifestyles of French consumers. the Visit Japan Package to Thailand and also to Australia in It maintains a record of zero fatalities in the company’s Hokkaido Air System Co., Ltd. (HAC) In domestic cargo operations, we introduced new simplified cold July and to Singapore in December. As a result, operating history. In addition to connecting Okinawa's main island Established in September 1997 to provide convenient air insulated containers, providing refrigerated transportation for revenue (prior to intercompany transactions elimination) and outlying islands, JTA operates 70 daily scheduled flights links to destinations across Hokkaido, HAC celebrated its fresh foods even during the summer, and captured demand for increased 4.0% year on year to 182 billion yen. on 12 routes between Okinawa and Haneda, Chubu, Kansai, 22nd anniversary in 2019. The airline currently has a fleet new fresh food cargo. In fiscal year 2019, JALPAK will strive to enhance the range Komatsu, Okayama and Fukuoka respectively with a fleet of three SAAB 340B aircraft, which operate 26 daily flights of value-added products to contribute to improving JAL JAL REPORT 2019 of 12 Boeing 737 aircraft. As a JAL Group airline, JTA offers linking Hakodate, Kushiro, Rishiri Island and Misawa with brand values and promoting sales of package products, and Japan France high-quality service with a touch of Okinawa culture. The Okadama Airport in Sapporo and Okushiri with Hakodate further, respond to diverse customer values in a determined airline is also doing its part to Airport. HAC will continue to focus on flight safety to effort to create value that exceeds customer expectations. Producer Exporter Importer ISSE Purchaser Production–shipping Product purchasing-export Importing and wholesaling Store sales and wholesaling support the regional economy maintain support from Hokkaido residents, while striving Product Export / Transportation Sales by widely promoting Okinawa to attract more individual and group passengers and sales import JALCARD., Inc. ESG Management as an appealing destination for business travelers. HAC will In fiscal year 2018, the addition of the JAL Card Suica tourists. also do its part to support the CLUB-A Gold Card to the product lineup in July and development of the regional membership campaigns resulted in an increase in Japan Air Commuter Co., Ltd. (JAC) economy and communities in membership of 4.5% year on year to 3,579,000. The increase Ask for cooperation with product proposals Yamato Group JAL Group JAC was established to initially operate flights on four Hokkaido. in users of the new option to pay the annual membership Regional producers and (domestic and international ground air transportation, transportation, product proposals product promotion )( ) fee with mileage, which was launched in fiscal year 2017, routes linking the Amami Islands. The airline, which marks business owners Governments (national, prefectural, etc.) Chronopost (French domestic transportation) its 36th anniversary in 2019, operates flights on 18 routes Ryukyu Air Commuter Co., Ltd. (RAC) and new initiatives such as using LINE to introduce members led to positive results in the Japan Customer Satisfaction Financial Data/ Corporate Information mainly to outlying islands in Kagoshima Prefecture such as A regional airline celebrating its 34th anniversary in 2019, Growth strategy reflecting the external environment the Amami Islands, which have been designated as Japan’s RAC provides convenient connections to outlying islands External environmental factors which have a major impact Index (JCSI) survey of credit card companies; 1st place in 34th national park. The cutting-edge ATR42-600 turboprop in the Okinawa region. Based at Naha Airport on the main on international cargo operations include additional slots at three indicators including loyalty and the recommendation was introduced to routes in 2017 and the new “Amami island of Okinawa, the airline operates between 41 and 43 Narita and Haneda airports as a result of the developments intention rate, and 2nd place in the remaining 3 indicators. Islands Hopping Route” was established in July 2018 to daily flights on 12 routes, with connections to nine islands. of airports in metropolitan area scheduled in 2020. Fiscal Further, JALCARD enhanced data marketing, renewed call further support the regional network as the “Wings of the From April 2018, RAC began offering a year-round service year 2019 is positioned as a year of preparation for the centers, and thus improved the system for providing services Region.” In addition, JAC is expanding a cooperative project for the first time with its five DHC8-Q400 Cargo-Combi years 2020 onwards. While additional slots represent to meet customer needs. As a result, operating revenue (prior to share aviation technologies with other companies. As an aircraft (Q400CC). Making maximum use of the features business opportunities, an increase in supply is expected to to intercompany transactions elimination) increased by 6.1% initiative beyond the JAL Group, JAC has lent ATR shared of the Q400CC, such as its jet-equivalent cruising speed, bring intensifying competition and dramatic changes in the year on year to 19.4 billion yen. business aircraft to Amakusa Airlines since June 2018. JAC high level of cabin comfort, and double the cargo space of operating environment. In fiscal year 2019, JALCARD will continue to embrace the will continue to grow and standard models, RAC is improving convenience for outlying In domestic cargo, we will update business processes challenge of providing values expected by customers. We develop together with the island residents and tourists and using the expanded cargo by shifting to paperless manifests and developing a will further pursue customer satisfaction by providing timely region, aiming to become a capacity to transport fresh seafood and agricultural products reservation portal site. We will strive to offer customers and stress-free services, and endeavor to offer new and valued and trusted airline of from the islands at higher greater convenience in terms of both reservations and attractive products and services. the region. speeds and in larger volumes transportation. The introduction of the A350, planned to promote local industries in September 2019, will change the supplydemand and contribute further to the environment, and therefore, we will accelerate development region. and sales initiatives and expand into new business domains. 42 43 VALUE PROVIDED BY JAL GROUP —COMMITMENT TO QUALITY The JAL Group declares its commitment in the Corporate Policy to deliver unparalleled service to our customers, and aims to provide the world’s best on-time performance, comfort and convenience with top priority on safety. Comfort 2018 World Airline Awards. In June 2019, JAL was the first Japanese airline to receive the World’s Best Economy Class Message from the President Safety and Sense of Security IATA Operational Safety Audit (IOSA) Award, which is presented to airlines excelling in overall Japan Airlines, Japan Transocean Air and J-AIR were audited To ensure flights are comfortable and enjoyable, the JAL assessment of Economy Class. JAL also received the Best for IOSA* renewal in February and March 2018, and received Group values the customer’s perspective. We work to Economy Class Airline Seat Award for the third consecutive To rebuild safe and sense of security, we are working to certification from the International Air Transportation improve both “hard” and “soft” services in order to deliver year and our fourth win. At the TripAdvisor® Travelers’ eliminate safety risks caused by alcohol consumption and Association (IATA) in June 2018. enhanced high-quality services. Choice™ Awards 2019, JAL was named first place for the promote measures to prevent objects from falling off IATA member airlines are required to renew their IOSA On international routes, we renovated our First Class Best Airline in Japan for the third consecutive year and aircraft. We are also working to detect and solve Groupregistration every two years. Japan Airlines has continually Lounge at Narita International Airport, and at Honolulu took fifth place in the Top 10 Airlines in the World. We wide issues relating to injuries and safety disruptive conduct renewed since 2004 and Japan Transocean Air since 2010. Daniel K. Inouye International Airport, renovated Sakura will continue to create products and services that meet at the airport and in flight to ensure sense of security for J-AIR renewed its registration since its first IOSA registration Lounge located in the Main Building and opened a new diverse customer needs and offer the spirit of Japanese-style Business Activities and Strategy every customer. in 2016. Sakura Lounge. In inflight meal service, we introduced the hospitality in order to provide the world’s finest quality of The next renewal audit is planned for February 2020. JAL Luana Style service of styling your own meal time and service. Elimination of safety risks caused by alcohol consumption menu for Business Class on flights from Japan to Hawaii. In We regard drinking as a safety issue and will eliminate * IOSA is an international safety audit program for confirming the effective addition, we are developing special inflight menus such as functioning of safety management systems of airlines. behavior that affects flight safety caused by alcohol vegetarian meals and Hindu vegetarian meals to cater to consumption. Specifically, we will eliminate the effects of diverse needs. Furthermore, we are continuing to expand drinking on safety by implementing alcohol consumption routes operated with JAL SKY SUITE-configured aircraft JAL REPORT 2019 measures, monitoring the situation through internal audits, designed to evoke a “one class higher” feel. and raising awareness among all employees. On domestic routes, we have improved a host of services such as renovating lounges at Osaka Itami Airport and Further promotion of measures to prevent falling objects opening a new Sakura Lounge at Okayama Momotaro off aircraft ESG Management Airport. We improved connectivity to our complimentary As flight routes are planned to pass over the city center inflight Wi-Fi service, increased video programs to 70 Certified as 5-Star Airline by Skytrax due to the development of airports in metropolitan area, channels, and introduced live television programs. Going we are further promoting measures to prevent objects forward, we are planning to introduce new Airbus A350 from falling off aircraft. While improving daily inspections aircraft that offer quiet cabins and personal monitors and and implementing swift measures through collection and power outlets in every seat as we endeavor to provide analysis wide-ranging information on irregularities, we will greater comfort in flight. promote measures in cooperation with other airlines and Transport safety management assessment Through these initiatives, JAL was recognized for the world’s Named, Best Airline Japan for the third consecutive year at TripAdvisor Financial Data/ Corporate Information aircraft manufacturers. In fiscal year 2018, three of the six JAL Group airlines, Japan finest quality and received the 5-Star rating at the Skytrax Travelers’ Choice Awards Airlines, J-AIR and Ryukyu Air Commuter, underwent a Efforts to ensure sense of security for every customer Transport Safety Management Assessment conducted by the In addition to flight safety, we will address a broad range Secretariat of the Minister of Land, Infrastructure, Transport of safety issues including customer injuries and safety and Tourism. The assessment, applicable to all transportation disruptive conduct in order to restore customer trust and operators including air, rail, sea and vehicular operators, provide greater ease of mind. We will also use safety checks the operation of company-wide safety management management methods to help resolve issues such as quality systems, identifies areas that need improvement, and offers control of inflight meals. advice. JAL uses assessment findings as reference to conduct The JAL Group also uses third-party audit and assessment original initiatives. processes to maintain and improve safety. (For more details, please refer to the JAL Group Safety Report.) WEB https://www.jal.com/ja/flight/safety/report/ (Japanese only) Sakura Lounge Hale at Honolulu Airport Special inflight menus offering new vegetarian meals 44 45 VALUE PROVIDED BY JAL GROUP — COMMITMENT TO QUALITY Convenience On-time Operations Passing the Baton to Maintain the World's top On-time Operations We feel that JAL Group’s extensive route network is one One basic factor of quality for public transportation Reservations and ticketing Airport Trained personnel provide accurate Seat assignments for passengers of our greatest strengths and an important factor when operators is on-time operations with safety as top priority. reservation and ticketing services and traveling in groups and passengers Message from the President customers choose to fly with us. In addition to offering The times in our flight schedules represent our products and inform customers of the departure time Day before requiring assistance are checked in and other necessary information. advance to ensure smooth boarding the routes and flight schedules that meet the needs of our commitment to customers and society. The basic value next day. customers and society, we will provide highly convenient offered by an airline is to fly to destinations according to products and services that appropriately fulfill customer scheduled times. To provide this value, we strive to ensure needs at every stage of the customer journey until arrival at seamless communication between many divisions, from Spot-in Maintenance the destination. reservations, airports, cargo, maintenance, flight operations, Aircraft marshallers guide aircraft to the Aircraft engineers inspect approximately proper parking spot after landing. 50 check items to detect dents and On domestic routes, we launched the new Amami Islands cabin attendants, sales and other support divisions to Head Before and other damage on arrival aircraft. They Hopping Route (Tokunoshima-Okinoerabu-Naha) operated Office planning divisions. after arrival take necessary action based on reports of problems or malfunctions from by Japan Air Commuter. On international routes, we As a result, we were recognized and awarded by Cirium, a cockpit crew. Business Activities and Strategy launched new services between Tokyo-Haneda and Manila company that analyzes on-time performance of airlines and and between Tokyo-Narita and Seattle, and increased flight other indicators, as the Best Mainline Airline in the AsiaCheck-in Cabin cleaning and loading frequency between Tokyo-Narita and Moscow. We are also Pacific region (seventh consecutive year, ninth win) for onCheck-in personnel perform boarding of cabin service goods expanding partnerships with global airlines to achieve our time performance of domestic and international flights procedures of passengers and baggage Personnel quickly clean seats and and provide information on the boarding lavatories, and tidy and replenish cabin target of serving 500 cities worldwide. operated in calendar year 2018. We were also recognized gate and boarding time. service goods such as blankets, pillows We also improved our frequent flyer program with regard by Flight Global as the Most Consistent Winner in the and inflight magazines to create a comfortable cabin environment. to award tickets for JAL Mileage Bank members, such Major International Airline category and Asia Pacific Major Before JAL REPORT 2019 as introducing JAL international award ticket PLUS and Mainline Airline category as an airline with the best ondeparture Fueling Catering extending reservation acceptance of domestic award tickets time arrival performance in the past five years (2013–2017). The appropriate amount of fuel is loaded To provide safe and secure inflight to one day prior to departure. The JAL Group will continue to ensure the safe operation depending on weather conditions, meals, attention is paid to hygiene and the number of passengers and crew meals are delivered on time. The JAL Group remains firmly committed to delivering of every flight and provide the world’s top on-time and cargo weight. Environmental a refreshing and inspiring travel experience through performance. ESG Management considerations are given to avoid waste. unparalleled service to all our customers. Security checkpoints Boarding gate Cooperation from passengers to prepare Airport staff share passenger information for inspections in advance ensures with cabin attendants before boarding smooth and strict security checks to begins. They assist passengers to ensure maintain aviation safety. smooth boarding such as announcing the order of boarding by types of passengers. Pre-departure Financial Data/ Corporate Information Flight dispatch Load control Baggage and Various information affecting operations cargo loading such as weather information and airport Baggage and cargo are loaded conditions is gathered and provided accurately and speedily according to to cockpit crew for determining the a detailed plan based on data on the appropriate altitude, flight course and number of passengers, the size and flight method. weight of baggage and cargo, etc. The ceremony to launch Narita=Seattle route Cockpit crew Cabin attendants After receiving reports from the Cabin attendants aim for on-time Best Mainline Airline in the Asia-Pacific region cockpit crew on the previous flight and Inflight departure by showing passengers to Most Consistent Winner award (2013–2017) maintenance conditions from aircraft their seats and making sure baggage engineers, cockpit crew conduct briefing is stowed appropriately. They provide with cabin attendants, and strive to achieve attentive service to ensure a comfortable on-time departure and safe operations. flight for every passenger. Baggage claim Welcoming passengers at Passengers are asked not to pick the arrival gate up someone’s baggage by mistake. Arrival Connecting passengers are informed of Baggage is returned quickly to ensure a the shortest route to reach the boarding smooth end to the trip. gate of their next flight. Passengers requiring assistance when disembarking are given support. 46 47 RISK MANAGEMENT Risk Management System Board of Directors Promotion of Safety and Security President Basic Stance Group Operational Safety Promotion Committee Risk Management Council Council, the Risk Management Committee is headed by Group Council for Safety Enhancement General Meeting Risk Management Committee Financial Risk Committee The JAL Group manages risks by dividing them into the General Manager of General Affairs, and comprises three categories: (1) operational risks associated with Safety Management Information Security Committee leaders of relevant departments. Its role is to conduct Security Management aviation safety, aviation security and other issues related administrative work in support of the Risk Management Corporate Risk, Operational Risk, Strategic Risk to air transportation; (2) corporate risks associated with Council, including any preparations that will contribute to Message from the President management in general, excluding risks related to air decision making and implementation of the decisions made. transportation; and (3) strategic risks associated with Group Operational Safety Promotion Committee Exercises, reviews, education and training are conducted business operations that may have a material impact on 1-1. Information Security Committee regularly for each type of disaster or purpose in order to corporate revenues and expenditures. The Information Security Committee is headed by the The Group Operational Safety Promotion Committee is increase the crisis management awareness of every employee. We have established the following six committees in order General Manager of General Affairs and the General headed by the President of Japan Airlines and comprises to identify, analyze and assess existing risks and implement Manager of IT Planning, and comprises leaders of relevant executive officers and presidents of Group airlines appropriate measures to mitigate those risks. departments. The Committee conducts activities specific to appointed by the Safety General Manager and Chairman. Business Continuity Plan (BCP) information management, upgrades information security The role of the Committee is to ensure safety for the Group measures, and strives to reduce corporate risk. as a whole and promote safety management by establishing To respond to specific risks that threaten our ability to fulfill Risk Management Council Business Activities and Strategy key policies related to safety management, clarify the status our responsibilities as a public transportation operator such 2. Financial Risk Committee of corporate activities and review organizations, systems as pandemic influenza, unidentified infectious diseases or The Risk Management Council is headed by the President, The Financial Risk Committee is chaired by the General and measures, as necessary. earthquakes, we have established a business continuity and primarily comprises General Managers of divisions Manager of Finance and Accounting and includes the plan (BCP) that enables us to continue business effectively responsible for managing frontline departments. President, Executive Vice President and leaders of relevant Group Council for Safety Enhancement General Meeting in emergency situations based on guidelines established in The Council takes responsibility for overall risk management departments. Organized as a committee under the Group Council collaboration with regulatory bodies and other relevant encompassing operational risks, corporate risks and strategic The Committee identifies financial risks appropriately and for Safety Enhancement General Meeting, the Group institutions. The BCP covers basic matters such as policies and JAL REPORT 2019 risks to stabilize Group-wide management activities. It also strives to facilitate improvements in corporate management. Operational Safety Promotion Committee maintains and procedures necessary to ensure the safety of JAL Group staff functions as a venue for reporting on progress, sharing More specifically, it conducts regular simulations of financial strengthens collaborative, safety-related measures among and their families and maintain air transportation operations information and making decisions on various matters conditions and checks the content. In the event of a major departments, divisions and Group airlines with the aim of essential to the Group, including reservations, information such as establishment of JAL Group Basic Policies on Risk financial crisis, large-scale disasters or other major riskenhancing the safety of Group air transportation operations provision, payments and settlements. It is reviewed regularly Management, regular risk assessments, and implementation as a whole. The Committee comprises the General Manager and revised as required to improve its application. ESG Management generating events that the Committee determines will of measures when risks eventuate. have a serious, quantifiable impact on the JAL Group, it will of Japan Airlines Corporate Safety & Security (who serves as During the outbreak of Ebola hemorrhagic fever in West calculate the estimated financial impact and deal with the Chairperson), leaders of departments responsible for Japan Africa in 2014, we activated our BCP regarding responses 1. Risk Management Committee risk jointly with the Risk Management Council, as necessary. Airlines safety management administrator appointed by the to pandemic influenza or unidentified infectious diseases. Organized as a committee under the Risk Management Chairperson, and the Safety Manager or Safety Director of We coordinated our actions with relevant government each Group airline. bodies, developed necessary systems and added the Policy for Handling the Ebola Virus Disease (International Flights) Principal Business Risks to our BCP. In fiscal 2018, we reviewed regulations related to Crisis Management Financial Data/ Corporate Information (For more details and example measures for each risk, please refer to pages 92–93.) earthquakes and expanded our strategies and BCP to include Risks related to the external operating environment, including Aircraft risk (examples) a potential earthquake below Tokyo in particular. the international climate and economic trends (examples) When risks (operational risks) associated with aviation safety, Strategic Risk • Delayed aircraft deliver y due to • Substantial reductions in demand for air travel due to trends in the global economy, natural disasters and technic al, financial, and other aviation security and other issues related to air transportation adverse weather conditions, wars and conflicts, terrorist attacks, infectious diseases, and other events reasons at aircraft manufacturers • Intensified competition from major airlines, low-cost carriers, bullet train services, and other means of transportation • Other problems that could impact fleet plans eventuate, or when such risks are suspected or confirmed, Information Security Measures • Changes in partnership environments, such as alliance mileage Corporate Risk we report quickly (within a target of 15 minutes) to the Integrated Operation Center (IOC). The JAL Group determines The JAL Group fell victim to a data security breach in the applicable crisis management level according to the September 2014. Hackers attacked the JAL Mileage Market risk (examples) IT system and customer data Regulatory and litigation risk (examples) handling risk (examples) situation, from Phase I to Phase III, and responds appropriately. Bank’s systems and gained illegal access to the customer • Fuel price volatility • Changes in laws and regulations of countries serviced • Exchange rate volatility • Flaws in computer programs • Changes in bilateral aviation agreements and other In Phase III, a Head Office crisis management team and a local information management system. We deeply regret the • Capital and financial market • Computer viruses and cyber-attacks international arrangements trends • Large-scale failures in power systems, communication • Tightening of corporate social responsibility and crisis management team situated in the disaster-affected inconvenience and concern caused to customers and • JA L Group credit rating networks, and other infrastructure that support IT systems regulations related to the global environment area, headed by the President or Executive Vice President, all those affected by this incident. In response, we are changes • Leaks of personal information • Filing of litigation are mobilized and teams rapidly implement crisis systems. strengthening information security as a top priority issue and taking steps to prevent recurrence. Flight safety risk (examples) Disaster risk (examples) Personnel and labor Risk Normal level Specifically, information security measures were moved relations risk (examples) eventuates • Aircraft accidents • Airport closures due to major earthquake or volcanic • Safety issues related to the same eruption, etc. • Shor tages of personnel with the Business continuity up ahead of schedule to build a robust system to detect air c r a f t t y p e o p e r a t e d b y t h e • Damage to key facilities due to fire or terrorist attack, etc. qualifications and skills required to target Group or to codeshare flights operate aircraft and monitor increasingly sophisticated and complex cyber• Outage of information systems and operational control capabilities • Collective strikes or other labor disputes Target recovery time attacks, while preventive measures are being continuously Operational Risk Crisis system response Business continuity upgraded to the highest level. Crisis management BCP Return to normal 48 49 FINANCIAL AND NON-FINANCIAL HIGH LIGHTS Financial Data (As of March 31, 2019) Non-Financial Data 11.8 % 9.5 % 49.2 % Operating profit margin ROIC*1 Total return ratio*2 Environment CO2 reductions Fuel-efficient aircraft share CO2 emissions per revenue ton kilometer (vs. fiscal 2005) The JAL Group recognizes the impact Message from the President of its air transportation business on 100 ■ Operating profit (Billions of yen) Net profit attributable to owners of parent (Billions of yen) 35.7 29.9 23.8 Non fuelROIC (%) 90 40.7 % % the environment and understands that 86.6% 42.4 % efﬁcient ■ Net profit attributable to owners of parent (Billions of yen) Total dividends (Billions of yen) Share repurchase (Billions of yen) 80 % % ratio 85.1% 84.6% Operating profit margin (%) Payout ratio (%)*3 Total return ratio (%) it must strive to reduce that impact 82.2% 60 15.7% 80.6% 13.4% and protect the environment through 70.1 76.2 13.2% 12.6% 11.8% 49.2% 59.3 64.3 47.7% 40 57.6 % % Fuelmeasures in all aspects of its business. % % efﬁcient 209.1 44.5% % ratio 174.4 14.0% 164.1 20 179.6 170.3 174.5 176.1 174.4 149.0 150.8 164.1 10.7% 149.0 150.8 10.1% 9.5% 135.4 70 0 12.7% 135.4 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 32.3% 29.4% 25.1% Business Activities and Strategy 25.1% 25.0% Customers and communities NPS* Cities serviced 33.2 30.0 38.7 20.0 38.3 20.0 Domestic International 37.7 43.5 From fiscal 2017, the JAL Group has used 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) Net Promoter Score (NPS)* as a performance 402 343 We have been achieving an operating profit We have been achieving ROIC of 9% or above We will focus on “Total Return”, which indicator for customer satisfaction in the +2.2pt margin of 10% or above continually, while by focusing on investment efficiency to enhance combines dividends and share repurchases. For +2.0pt 350 emphasizing profitability. corporate value. the total return ratio, we will aim at a range of Medium Term Management Plan. approximately 35% to 50%. +1.7pt +1.3pt Customer evaluations and opinions are shared JAL REPORT 2019 internally to improve products and services with 13.6 % 57.4 % ¥110.3 billion ROE* 4 Shareholders’ equity ratio Free cash flow 0pt the aim of achieving the world’s top customer 0pt satisfaction. By serving 500 cities worldwide, as 2017 2017 2018 (FY) 0 2017 2018 (FY) Start of period ROE (%) ROA*5 (%) ■ Shareholders’ equity (Billions of yen) ■ Cash flow from operating activities ■ Cash flow from investing activities*6 targeted in the Grand Design, the Group will Shareholders’ equity ratio (%) Free cash flow (Billions of yen) Targeting 500 cities from end of fiscal 2017 contribute to expanding the travelling nonESG Management 57.2% 57.4% 105.1 110.3 56.2% 101.3 resident population among regions. * A performance indicator that measures the customers’ intention to recommend to others. 21.5% 52.7% 53.4% 61.8 20.3% 1,165.1 37.5 18.1% 1,060.3 312.3 296.7 972.0 281.5 Human rights, Diversity and Inclusion Average monthly overtime and rest Ratio of female managers 12.8% 13.3% 13.6% 261.1 253.1 day work hours per employee* 843.0 ■ Female managers Ratio of female managers 13.7% 776.4 △215.5 In 2014, JAL Group top management △199.2 △207.2 ■ Average monthly overtime and rest day work hours per employee 10.3% 9.1% 16.8％ 9.7% △180.1 △186.3 Ratio of annual paid leave taken 16.3％ 16.3％ declared our commitment to diversity. 15.6％ 86.0% 15.1％ 84.0% 85.5% Since then, we have aspired to be a 89.5% 846 853 882 799 756 Financial Data/ Corporate Information 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) company where everyone can work in 11.4 12.0 a positive atmosphere regardless of 8.5 We strive to improve asset efficiency and capital Equity ratio reached approximately 60%. We ensure there is always sufficient free cash 7.9 efficiency, and have been achieving ROE of 10% Having built a strong financial structure, we will flow to fund dividends for our shareholders gender, age, nationality, race, religion, or above. maintain the current level. through high profitability and cash flow generation ability. disability, sexual orientation, or other EBITDAR margin*7 21.5 % personal attributes. 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) * Japan Airlines only ■ EBITDAR (Billions of yen) Governance Composition of each committee EBITDAR margin (%) Chairman 24.0% 21.8% 22.2% 22.1% 21.5% The JAL Group has established Corporate Governance committees for corporate governance, Committee *1 ROIC (Return on Invested Capital) = NOPAT/Average Fixed Asset (incl. Future Rental Expenses under 321.1 320.1 Operating Leases) at beginning and end of a fiscal year 292.7 305.4 *2 Total return ratio = (Total amount of dividends + Amount of share repurchases) / net profit nomination of candidates for director 286.2 Nominating Committee attributable to owners of parent (excluding effects of deferred income tax) positions, selection of executive *3 Payout ratio = Total dividends / net profit attributable to owners of parent (excluding effects of officers, and determination of director Personnel Committee deferred income tax) *4 ROE (Return On Equity) = (Net profit attributable to owners of parent) / (Average of shareholder’s remuneration to achieve strong equity at beginning and end of a fiscal year) Compensation Committee 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) *5 ROA (Return On Assets) = (Operating profit) / (Average of total assets at beginning and end of a fiscal management oversight based on year) We maintain a high level of profitability and sold *6 Excluding deposits and withdrawals from deposit accounts highly transparent management. The Officers Disciplinary Committee financial structure. We will strategically allocate *7 EBITDAR Margin = EBITDAR / Operating Revenue majority of committee members are capital to enhance corporate value. EBITDAR=Operating Profit + Depreciation and Amortization + Aircraft Leases independent external directors. External director Internal director 50 51 ESG MANAGEMENT APPROACH Positioning within the Medium Term D&I*1), and Governance. Management Plan Establishment of the JAL Group Code of Conduct Initiatives to achieve the SDGs The JAL Group aims to fulfill its social mission and role as Based on the ESG management approach, the JAL Group has an air transportation operator and become a company that begun defining specific KPIs and progress management in To achieve the SDGs, the JAL Group Code of Conduct, Message from the President society can put their confidence in by proactively solving four areas to achieve the SDGs by 2030, while maintaining “Commitment to Society” was established as concrete JAL Group Code of Conduct social issues. flight safety. behavioral guidelines to be observed by all officers 1. Safety Therefore, we have included our resolve to “contribute Furthermore, we are committed to raising awareness of the and employees to achieve the SDGs. The 10 principles 2. Pursuit of customer satisfaction to resolving social issues” such as the SDGs in our 10SDGs internally and externally. We will fulfill our corporate of the UN Global Compact*3 and Charter of Corporate 3. Trust with stakeholders Year Grand Design, starting from the new Medium Term mission to deepen understanding of the importance of Behavior of Keidanren (Japan Business Federation) (1) Information disclosure and dialogue Management Plan for Fiscal Years 2017 to 2020. these initiatives by more people and contribute to the were used as reference. (2) Prohibiting insider trading Specifically, we have incorporated ESG management development of a sustainable society. Acting in line with this Code of Conduct is a way 4. Respect for human rights and job satisfaction perspectives in our Medium Term Management Plan, of practicing the JAL Philosophy and realizing the (human rights and labor) identified four areas of focused activities: Environmental, Corporate Policy. (1) Respecting human rights and diversity Business Activities and Strategy Social (Customer and Community), Social (Human Rights and (2) Safe and comfortable work environments Policy development associated with the Code of 5. Mission and responsibility as a member of Conduct society To shape the Code of Conduct as behavioral guidelines (1) Contributing to regional revitalization of the JAL Group, we develop policies, codes and action through our business plans that lead to steady implementation of the Code (2) Responsibility as a company that plays a of Conduct, and disclose results and issues to establish a JAL REPORT 2019 role in social infrastructure PDCA cycle. (3) Responsibility as a corporate citizen At the same time, the Group will deal with social needs 2030 and issues by strengthening its check function through 6. Passing on the precious earth to the next generation (global environment) Initiative Areas Priority Issues communication with external stakeholders. (1) Global environmental preservation ESG Management • Reduce greenhouse gas emissions initiatives Environmental • Reduce waste (2) Disclosure of environmental information • Reduce noise and dialogue • Lead global aviation safety Grand Design Social • Enable air travel for everyone • Expand inbound travel to create a 7. Fair business practices (Customer and tourism-oriented country JAL Group Corporate Policy (1) Reinforcing compliance Community) • Support regional revitalization across Japan (2) Preventing corruption • Develop products and services that are trusted by customers (3) Fair business relations with business 2020 Social • Achieve active participation and health partners Financial Data/ Corporate Information management for diverse human resources (Human Rights • Train and produce female leaders (4) Free and fair competition Medium Term ESG and D&I* 1) • Build a sound* 2 supply chain (5) Management of personal information and Management management perspectives • Thorough compliance intellectual property Plan Governance • Proactive disclosure and accountability • Robust risk management (6) Eliminating relations antisocial forces *1 Diversity & Inclusion: Application and creation of different experiences and perspectives on accepting differences JAL Group Code of Conduct *3 The United Nations Global Compact is a *2 A state of achieving environment considerations, fair business practices, and respect for human rights, etc. framework for participating businesses Preamble 1. Safety around the world to implement the Ten Promotion Framework Principles in the areas of human rights, Promotion Framework labor, the environment and anti-corruption. The JAL Group holds CSR Committee meetings to contribute 2. Pursuit 3. Trust with 4. Respect for human The JAL Group has been a signatory to the of customer rights and to the realization of a sustainable society. The Committee satisfaction stakeholders job satisfaction Global Compact since December 2004. Board of Directors implements the PDCA cycle effectively to establish 5. Mission and 6. Passing on the precious 7. Fair business responsibility as a earth to the next generation initiatives, sets KPIs, checks progress and considers action member of society (global environment) practices President policies in relation to the 14 priority issues in the above table, and improves and promotes each initiative. JAL Philosophy Meetings were held every six months up till fiscal year 2018, Corporate Brand Promotion Council but to further drive ESG management, the frequency of meetings has been increased to quarterly from fiscal 2019. CSR Committee 52 53 ENVIRONMENT Environmental Management Tackling Climate Change Basic stance CO2 Emissions reduction target and progress Operational methods and other measures Aircraft renewal to fuel-efficient aircraft The JAL Group recognizes the considerable impact of its air At the general assembly of the International Civil Aviation In addition to “Eco Flight” activities in daily operations by Renewing aircraft to fuel-efficient aircraft such as the transportation business on the environment, and is working Organization (ICAO) convened in 2010, two aspirational cockpit crews with top priority on safety, we are conducting Airbus A350 and Boeing 787 can reduce CO2 emissions by Message from the President to reduce that environmental impact and protect the global CO2 reduction goals were agreed on for the various activities in workplaces, such as reduction of approximately 15-25% per aircraft. The JAL Group will environment through a range of measures in all aspects of international aviation sector: 2% annual fuel efficiency aircraft weight and regular engine washing to improve fuel continue to renew its fleet to more fuel-efficient aircraft its business activities. improvement, and carbon neutral growth for international economy. under a plan to further reduce its CO2 emissions. With this awareness, we included “Passing on the precious flights from 2020 onwards. Additionally, at the general Specifically, we are implementing CO2 emission reduction earth to the next generation” in the JAL Group Code of assembly convened in 2016, the Carbon Offsetting and initiatives through the cross-organizational Fuel-Saving Share of Fuel-efficient Aircraft in JAL Group’s Fleet Conduct. Reduction Scheme for International Aviation (CORSIA) Project and implementing the PDCA cycle to monitor and 100％ 36% 30% 24% 20% 19% Other was adopted. The scheme obliges airlines operating share progress in order to achieve our goal. internationally to purchase or otherwise trade CO2 emissions JAL Group Code of Conduct 50％ Fuelrights from 2021 onwards for any amount exceeding the 64% 70% 76% 80% 81% efficient [Commitment to Society] aircraft Business Activities and Strategy average CO2 emission level of 2019 and 2020. Airlines Passing on the precious earth to the next 0% throughout the world are working to achieve these goals. generation (global environment) 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Fiscal We are implementing our emissions reduction targets in year-end We sincerely accept the fact that our air transportation Fuel-efficient aircraft: A350, 787, 777, 737-800, E170/190 three phases—short term, medium term, and long term. CO2 reduced in Actual figures to fiscal year 2018; plans from fiscal year 2019 business impacts the environment significantly. To fulfill The JAL Group’s short-term target is to reduce CO2 emissions fiscal year 2018 our responsibility of passing on the precious earth to the Engine water washing next generation, we raise awareness of every employee from aircraft to 23% per revenue ton kilometer below the Reduced Regular We regularly wash aircraft engines to remove dust and and preserve the environment in every aspect. fiscal 2005 level by fiscal 2020. 18,700 tons maintenance other small airborne particles stuck inside the engines to JAL REPORT 2019 (1) Global environmental preservation initiatives To achieve this short-term target, we have steadily maintain and improve, fuel economy. The JAL Group complies with laws and regulations implemented measures to reduce fuel consumption during and strives to respond to climate change, effectively daily flights and renew aircraft to fuel-efficient aircraft such Reduced use of auxiliary power unit (APU) (closed cabin use limited resources, prevent environmental as the Airbus A350 and Boeing 787 under a plan. As a result, Reduced shades exercise) pollution, reduce noise, and preserve biodiversity to While parked 800 tons CO2 emissions in fiscal 2018 were 1.6% lower than the ESG Management Closing window shades blocks out sunlight, lowers cabin temperatures, reduce impacts of operations on the environment. previous year. As of the end of fiscal 2018, we have reduced and reduces use of air-conditioning. This shortens the operating time In addition, we pursue the development of of the APU at the rear of the aircraft, and reduces CO2 emissions. emissions by 19.4% from the fiscal 2005 level. environmentally-friendly technologies to solve environmental issues, in coordination with For our medium-term target, we aim for carbon neutral Lightened aircraft weight Reduced stakeholders. growth from 2020 onwards, which we will achieve by The amount of water loaded onboard aircraft is being Before departure 7,600 tons carbon offsetting according to the CORSIA. optimized based on past usage records to reduce aircraft (2) Disclosure of environmental information and dialogue For our long-term target, we are considering setting an weight. The JAL Group actively discloses environmental information, maintains dialogue with stakeholders aggressive target, taking into account the International Air and expands environmental preservation initiatives Ascent with early acceleration Financial Data/ Corporate Information Transport Association (IATA) target of “a 50% reduction in Reduced to society. total CO2 emissions in 2005 by 2050.” Ascending after takeoff while accelerating from an earlier At takeoff 7,400 tons point is effective for reaching cruising altitude earlier in the flight and reducing fuel consumption. Therefore, JAL is Building a promotion framework and Environmental actively utilizing this approach to reduce CO2 emissions. Management System (EMS) 【CO2 削減の推移】 Reduced air resistance JAL Group environmental activities are conducted across the CO2 Reductions Reduced Setting flaps at shallow angles and delaying the timing for Group by a dedicated department under the control of the 110% During descent 37,900 tons lowering the wheels and flaps, while maintaining safety, responsible executive officer. Progress of specific activities is CO2/RTK (vs. FY2005) is being conducted to minimize air resistance in flight and confirmed at quarterly meetings of the CSR Committee. 100% reduce CO2 emissions. We are currently rebuilding a system of observation, FY2018 80.6% Reverse thrust measures aggregation and management of environmental data. The 90% Reduced When certain conditions are met to allow the aircraft to At landing 6,500 tons system will collect environmental impact data such as CO2 stop safely, the engines’ reverse thrusters, which are used to emissions, waste and water usage, including not only direct 80% decelerate when landing, are deployed at minimum output emissions from business activities, but also indirect emissions (idling) to reduce CO2 emissions. Target and supply chain emissions. 70% of 77.0% Engine out taxi–use of only one engine on the ground Reduced We are also considering building a unified EMS of the JAL When taxiing to parking spots, our cockpit crews shut down 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 While taxiing 5,500 tons Group, including all business units and business offices, and one of the aircraft’s two engines to reduce CO2 emissions, operating according to international standards (ISO 14001). only when specified conditions are met. 54 55 ENVIRONMENT Use of Sustainable Aviation Fuel(SAF) Investment in U.S. SAF manufacturer Japanese domestic initiatives JAL also launched a project to turn used clothing into SAF For many years, the airline industry has been working to In September 2018, JAL formed a strategic partnership with The Japanese government established the Committee for over the Internet, social media and other channels to invite reduce CO2 emissions by using less fuel. However, to achieve the Japan Overseas Infrastructure Investment Corporation the Study of a Process Leading to Introduction of Bio Jet everyone to donate their used clothes. further reductions in emissions, it is necessary to look at for Transport & Urban Development (JOIN) and Marubeni Fuel for the Olympic Games and Paralympic Games Tokyo Message from the President changing the actual fuel used. Corporation to invest in Fulcrum BioEnergy, Inc. in 2020 as part of efforts to achieve domestic SAF production With this in mind, Europe, the U.S., and other countries California, U.S.A. This was the first investment by a Japanese ahead of Tokyo 2020. As a member of the committee, around the world have been developing and using SAF in company in a general waste-based SAF manufacturing JAL will use domestically produced SAF for flights during practical applications, with full-scale use expected to start business. 2020. As a member of the All Japan Team, it will also from 2030. Fulcrum has developed a process to manufacture SAF from connect stakeholders and develop supply chains, from The JAL Group also is following this trend by making general waste, which normally goes to landfill, that meet manufacturing to use of SAF to expand use of Japan-made concrete investments, using SAF for scheduled services, and the fuel standard of ASTM International, an international SAF by 2030. disseminating information to become a leading airline in standards organization. Its first production plant is currently the use of SAF. under construction in Nevada, with operation to start in Publicizing SAF to increase use Business Activities and Strategy 2020. The company has plans to construct multiple plants as The JAL Group is employing a range of channels to publicize Using SAF for JAL flights well, including one already announced for Indiana. All this SAF and further increase general awareness. JAL has a record of SAF use, including conducting Asia’s made Fulcrum one of the companies most likely to achieve This includes articles about SAF in its inflight magazine first test flight using SAF produced from non-edible mass production of SAF. SKYWARD and PR magazine Ashita no Tsubasa (“Wings of feedstocks in 2009, and using SAF to fly from Chicago For this reason, the JAL Group is working to build a closer Tomorrow”), where topics on SAF are raised to present its Activities about the utilization of SAF O’Hare International Airport to Narita International Airport relationship with Fulcrum and using Fulcrum’s SAF in its significance and mechanisms, and JAL Group’s hopes for the in November 2017 and from San Francisco International flights from North America and other areas to reduce CO2 future. WEB http://www.jal.com /ja /csr/biojet/ (only in Japanese) JAL REPORT 2019 Airport to Haneda International Airport in January 2019. In emissions. June 2019, when JAL took delivery of a new Airbus A350, the maiden flight from the Airbus plant at Toulouse, France, to Haneda International Airport was powered by SAF. ESG Management Project to turn used clothing into SAF In October 2018, JAL launched a project to convert cotton clothing, collected from customers across Japan, into Fulcrum BioEnergy’s domestically produced SAF. SAF During the campaign in 2018 (about three months), around manufacturing Collection and process pre-processing 50 companies helped collect approximately 250,000 pieces of of general clothing. Financial Data/ Corporate Information waste With technical support from the Green Earth Institute Co., Ltd., and using a bioprocess technology developed by the Gasification and elimination of Project to turn used Research Institute of Innovative Technology for the Earth impurities Note. Plant under construction (as of Fulcrum’s SAF plant under construction in Nevada (May 2019) clothing (RITE), the project started converting the used clothing into May 2019) into SAF SAF in February 2019. Synthetic gas (SAF extract) Note. Plant under construction Phase1 Phase2 Phase3 Phase4 (as of May 2019) Flying on SAF! Clothing collected with Sugar solution is made Corynebacterium used A catalytic reaction of SAF manufacturing plant in Nevada (artist’s impression) the support of JEPLAN, after the saccharification to convert and condense alcohol (isobutanol) Flying on SAF! Inc. of cotton fibers. sugar solution into alcohol creates SAF (Photo: Koatsu (isobutanol) Chemical Industries, Ltd.) 56 57 ENVIRONMENT CUSTOMERS AND REGIONS Response to the Energy Conservation Act Detection of forest fires Regional Revitalization Activities Tourism promotion The vast Russian Siberian taiga (coniferous forest zone), To increase the nonresident population, we provide support The JAL Group has established a target of reducing average a habitat to many species of fauna and flora, absorbs CO2 JAL Group’s business activities are supported by exchanges for the creation and promotion of unique regional content, annual per-unit energy consumption by at least 1% for gases on the Earth. To cooperate in containing forest fires, of people and goods between regions and coexist with formulation of inbound strategies, and development of ground facilities. For the fourth consecutive year since 2016, we began reporting in 2003 forest fires detected while those regions However, these regions face numerous tourism infrastructure. we received an S Class good business operator classification flying over Siberia. problems, such as depopulation due to a shrinking Message from the President in the Business Operator Classification Evaluation System population, aging population, falling birthrate, and Regional industry support under the Act on the Rational Use of Energy (Energy concentration of population in the Tokyo area. This is We will support regions in increasing the value of regional Conservation Act), which is administered by the Ministry of Noise Reduction why we are striving to use our business activities to solve specialties, developing products, expanding sales channels, Economy, Trade and Industry. problems faced by regional communities driven by our conducting promotions, and energizing local industries. The JAL Group is taking active steps to reduce noise near policy to pay attention to the needs of regions, think and airports. work collaboratively, and build the future of regions to Promotion of lesser known regions Effective Use of Limited Resources Specifically, we are committed to “reduction of noise at contribute to the development of a sustainable society. In our promotion of lesser-known regions, which we began source” and “noise abatement operational procedures” Specifically, recognizing that connecting regions with the in May 2011, we discover the allure of individual areas, The JAL Group promotes the 4Rs (Reduce, Reuse, Recycle, which are principal elements of the Balanced Approach, world is a contribution unique to JAL, we are energizing serve food from those areas in inflight meals, and promote Business Activities and Strategy Refuse) in all business processes in line with the JAL Group adopted by the International Civil Aviation Organization regions by enhancing regional attractiveness and value, regions through various JAL Group media each month. Environmental Policy to achieve a recycling-based society. (ICAO), that airlines should follow. The ratio of ICAO and helping expand consumption through the circulation We continue to conduct activities such as abolishing printed Chapter 4 standard compliant aircraft is 100%, and the ratio and transportation of people and goods, domestically and Collaboration manuals for cockpit crew, recycling beverage cans and of ICAO Chapter 14 standard compliant aircraft is 38%. internationally. We collaborate with other companies and organizations newspapers from aircraft cabins and offices, and reusing As part of our noise abatement operational procedures, Among these activities are measures aimed at bringing with the same drive to revitalize regions to hold events, air cargo packing materials in recycled plastic products. As we follow noise abatement procedures at take off, and at foreign visitors to regions. Even though the economic create travel products, expand sales channels for regional a Group, we aim to achieve a ratio of final disposal rate of Haneda Airport and Itami Airport in particular, which are benefits produced by inbound visitors has been tremendous, specialties, and revitalize regions. JAL REPORT 2019 at least 2% for industrial waste generated from domestic close to residential areas, we operate under even tighter there are still many regions that have problems in increasing offices. procedures. the duration of stay or attracting repeaters. We are taking As part of water-saving and recycling efforts, the JAL Group During landing, we operate with reduced flap, delayed flap steps to realize sustainable regional growth backed by the is committed to reusing the large volumes of pure water and idle reverse and other noise abatement procedures. At increase of foreign visitors and energize regional economics that are used in washing parts. San Francisco International Airport and Kansai International to bring smiles to residents, such as increasing repeaters ESG Management Airport, we also follow continuous descent operations (CDO), by creating added-value and developing environments to which dramatically reduce noise and CO2 emissions. welcome visitors. Environmental Pollution Prevention We believe that one of the most important aspects of regional revitalization measures is their continuity. We JAL Group companies in Japan manage hazardous chemical Using Aircraft to Address Climate Change do not implement short-term measures, but instead substances and strive to reduce amounts handled and continuously carry on measures from a mediumand longCONTRAIL Project Atmospheric Observations released, according to the Act on Confirmation, etc. of term perspective. Financial Data/ Corporate Information Release Amounts of Specific Chemical Substances in the The JAL Group began atmospheric observations in 1993 Environment and Promotion of Improvements to the with the Meteorological Research Institute and the Nikko NEW JAPAN PROJECT Management Thereof (PRTR Law). Foundation (currently JAL Foundation), which became the Through the NEW JAPAN PROJECT, launched in 2015, we Specifically, engines used on JAL Group aircraft comply with current CONTRAIL Project in 2005 with the addition of the not only promote popular local delicacies through our all regulations and ICAO CAEP6/CAEP8 standards stipulated National Institute for Environmental Studies (NIES) and inflight magazine, inflight videos, and inflight meals on by NOx regulations (applicable standards vary according to JAMCO Corporation. Through the project, greenhouse gas domestic flights, but also use the expertise and networks the type certification period). data collected by scheduled international flights is published developed by the JAL Group to promote flows of goods and by the NIES and used in research studies globally. In 2018, people to regions through tourism promotion and regional we conducted 1,424 observations and 37 samplings using industry support. Our aim is to realize sustainable regional Biodiversity Initiatives JAL aircraft. The published data was used in three peerdevelopment and create new demand for air travel. We will reviewed papers, nine international institute presentations, bring energy to regions and their residents by discovering Protecting the Red-crowned Crane and six domestic institute presentations. In March 2019, and creating hidden regional resources, commercializing The JAL Group is taking steps to protect the red-crowned the CONTRAIL Project was awarded the 1st Japan Open them, and selling them. Through this, we hope to connect crane, one of Japan’s designated protected species. Once Innovation Prize, Minister of the Environment Award. regions, people, and goods. a year since 2016, volunteer JAL Group staff have helped maintain the crane’s feeding grounds in Tsurui Village, WEB http://japan.jal.co.jp/index.html (only in Japanese) Hokkaido. 58 59 CUSTOMERS AND REGIONS HUMAN RIGHTS, DIVERSITY & INCLUSION Support for Disaster Relief and Recovery Efforts Nurturing the Next Generation Diversity & Inclusion JAL will continue to fulfill its role as a company responsible This program, which only JAL could carry out, provides Basic stance Promoting understanding for LGBT for Japan’s air transportation infrastructure by providing opportunities for children to make new discoveries and have In 2014, JAL Group top management declared their The JAL Group has established a system that applies the same support to affected areas in relief and recovery phases after new learning experiences, prompting them to think about commitment to diversity. Since then, we have aspired benefits for employees married to same-sex partners under a disaster. their own futures, the future of our earth, and the future of to be a company where everyone can work in a positive law to employees (and their partner and families) registered as Message from the President the environment. atmosphere regardless of gender, age, nationality, race, opposite-sex partners as defined by the company. Post-disaster phase–Relief phase ethnicity, religion, social class, disability, sexual orientation, We also participate in LGBT-related events and seminars to JAL cooperates with a network of government JAL SORAIKU® gender identity, career or other personal attributes. contribute to promoting understanding of LGBT in and outside organizations, regional public organizations, NGOs, and In 2013, we reorganized the various workshops and classes Leveraging diverse ideas generated by diverse individuality, the company. NPOs in the transportation of relief supplies and volunteers offered to young people as a united next-generation we will promote value creation, provide unparalleled service In recognition of these initiatives, Japan Airlines Co., Ltd. to disaster stricken areas. We aim to support the flow of educational program, which we have implemented since to our customers, and contribute to the betterment of was awarded the highest GOLD rating for the third year in a people and goods and contribute to a swift recovery of the 2016 under the name JAL SORAIKU®. Our target is for a society. row in the PRIDE Index, an evaluation index established by affected areas. total of one million people to participate between fiscal voluntary organization “work with Pride” concerning LBGT years 2016 and 2020. Career opportunities for female employees and other sexual minority-related initiatives implemented by Business Activities and Strategy Fiscal 2018 Support Activity Results The JAL Group have been increasing career opportunities corporations and other organizations. 2018 Hokkaido Eastern JAL SORAIKU Participants ® for female employees and has set the target of 20% July 2018 heavy rains Iburi Earthquake female managers in the JAL Group and at least 15% female Fiscal year Number of participants Relief donations 5,000,000 yen 5,000,000 yen FY2016 152,323 organizational managers in JAL by the end of fiscal year Charity miles 45,016,500 yen 16,016,000 yen FY2017 191,300 2023. Employee donations 3,478,788 yen 1,453,385 yen FY2018 197,469 Our efforts have primarily focused on improving work Emergency relief supplies (including 31 flights, 112 tons environments, strengthening human resources development JAL REPORT 2019 relief service flights) Content of JAL SORAIKU® and nurturing the corporate culture. In fiscal year 2018, we Free flights 489 people abolished core time from our flextime system, introduced Free transportation 1.2 tons •JAL Factory Tour—SKY MUSEUM annual paid leave on an hourly basis, and eliminated 2,452,000 yen Dokokani Mile (To Central Community •JAL Paper Plane Classes impression-based evaluation in the new personnel Chest of Japan) •JAL Sky Eco Classes evaluation system. ESG Management •JAL Career Talk for Students As of March 31, 2019, there were 13 female directors and Recovery phase •JAL Safety Demonstrations by Cabin Attendants 882 female managers (ratio of female managers: 16.8%). Group photo at Tokyo Rainbow Pride 2019 In addition to providing economic support to affected areas •JAL Job Interview Simulation for Students such as promoting industrial development and tourism •JAL STEAM SCHOOL Cultivating global human resources demand, we feel that providing emotional support to the In fiscal year 2018 we established the new Global Promotion Opportunities for people with disabilities residents is also our important duty. Based on this idea, we WEB http://www.jal.com /ja /csr/soraiku / (only in Japanese) Office in the Human Resources Strategy Department, The JAL Group also takes a positive approach to promoting assist with publicity of regional products in collaboration responsible for reviewing the organizational operating the active involvement of employees with disabilities. Financial Data/ Corporate Information with prefectural governments and conduct recovery support system, and recruitment, development and assignment of We promote their employment, develop worker-friendly training in which employees travel to affected areas and <JAL Factory Tour—SKY MUSEUM> human resources necessary for globalization. Employees in environments such as providing training opportunities with listen to those who experienced the disasters first-hand. JAL Factory Tour—SKY MUSEUM is run at the JAL the Japan region centered on young mid-management staff consideration to characteristics of each disability, and hold We have also created relief donation tours, part of the Maintenance Center adjacent to Haneda Airport. The tours will be provided more work experience and interactions in seminars to increase understanding of disabilities. We are proceeds of which are donated to affected areas, to bring are free and give visitors the opportunity to learn about different cultures through overseas postings and internships also expanding our range of activities, such as opening a many customers to these areas and assist with their recovery various types of jobs in an airline and observe aircraft at overseas companies. Employees in overseas regions new coffee shop “SKY CAFE Kilatto” run by staff with mild through travel. maintenance services at close distance. The SKY MUSEUM will have more opportunities to learn about the company intellectual disabilities in Tennozu Building, JAL Head Office attracted over 140,000 visitors in fiscal year 2018. through training and work experience in regions other in addition to those at Haneda and Narita offices, and a than their place of employment. We are also taking steps massage room “Largo” run by visually impaired employees <JAL Paper Plane Classes> to develop a Group shared foundation to more firmly instill at Haneda. JAL Paper Plane Classes are held by approximately 1,700 cross-border personnel transfers and exchanges. JAL has also been a member of ACE* since September 2016 JAL Group staff volunteers, who are certified instructors by and is participating in industry, academia and government the Japan Origami Airplane Association. In fiscal year 2018, partnerships. 48,081 people centered on elementary school students participated in these classes. A total of 2,895 people took part in qualifying competitions at 34 locations throughout Japan for the JAL Origami Plane National Competition, in * ACE is short for Accessibility Consortium of Enterprises, which aims to develop a new employment model for people with disabilities that which competitors try to maintain the longest flight times contributes to corporate growth. Activities include seminars for human resources management and employees with disabilities and publication At the antenna shop of Iwate Prefecture of educational booklets to increase awareness, develop role moles and provide recommendations to management and society. with their paper airplanes. 60 61 HUMAN RIGHTS, DIVERSITY & INCLUSION Reemployment of senior employees Optimizing work hours Respect for Human Rights The JAL Group has a program for employees to continue JAL seeks to cultivate a climate where employees with working even after retirement if they wish. At JAL, time limitations due to parenting, nursing care or other Basic stance Modern Slavery Act Statement roughly 80% of retirees continue to play an active obligations can work in a fair manner and become a To realize the JAL Group Corporate Policy, we are promoting In accordance with the provisions of Section 54(1) of role in various workplaces (as of March 31, 2019). By company where all employees can participate. respect for human rights by practicing our behavioral the UK’s Modern Slavery Act, the JAL Group discloses improving opportunities and working terms for continued We feel that increasing work efficiency and productivity guidelines in the JAL Philosophy. Having a correct statements on steps taken to prevent modern slavery and Message from the President employment, we will pass on know-how to the younger will generate more free time for employees to refresh understanding of human rights is essential to eliminate human trafficking in the JAL Group and its supply chains. generation using the experience and knowledge of senior themselves physically and mentally and to achieve selfdiscrimination based on gender, age, nationality, race, We consecutively disclosed our second statement in fiscal employees accumulated over many years of service. development, and that feeding back their experience ethnicity, religion, social class, disability, sexual orientation, year 2018 and to assist in updating the content, we held a to values to the company will lead to corporate growth. gender identity, career and other personal attributes. workshop, engaging the services of an external speaker and Therefore, we are taking measures to encourage employees Therefore, we are securing time to deepen understanding lawyer. Health Management to take annual paid leave under a plan and to optimize and increase awareness of human rights through internal At the workshop, in addition to legal matters relating to the work hours. training seminars, such as Seminars for New Employees and Modern Slavery Act, we gained an in-depth, comprehensive Basic stance In fiscal year 2018, the average annual paid leave taken for New Managers. understanding of the UN’s Guiding Principles on Business The driving force to becoming the world’s most preferred was 17.2 days, or 86% of the total entitlement, while the and Human Rights through case study of human rights Business Activities and Strategy and valued airline is the vitality of every JAL Group average monthly overtime total was 8.5 hours (excluding Respect for human rights stipulated in the Code of Conduct issues at companies, initiatives by various stakeholders, such employee. That vitality is dependent on their physical and general JAL staff on shift work). The actual average for Based on the view that respect for human rights is a as NGOs and investors, and corporate valuation. mental health. We regard the health of our employees and total work hours* in fiscal year 2018 was 1,874 hours, universal value and is consistent with the realization of the Going forward, the JAL Group will continue working to their families as the basis of life for every individual and a against a target figure of 1,850 hours, representing a 98.7% Corporate Policy, the JAL Group has stipulated “Respect prevent modern slavery and human trafficking, while precious asset for JAL. achievement of the target. for human rights and job satisfaction (human rights and enhancing our knowledge of the laws and guidelines of labor)” in the Group’s Code of Conduct in order to fulfill its other countries. Promotion framework * Total work hours (annual) = standard number of work days per year x responsibility to respect human rights of all stakeholders. JAL REPORT 2019 standard number of work hours per day (8 hrs.) + overtime and rest day Health management in the JAL Group is promoted based work hours – [(number of days of annual leave + number of days of Modern Slavery Act Statement on the JAL Wellness 2020 health promotion program, led special leave + number of days of work absence) x standard number of work hours per day (8 hrs.)] WEB https://www.jal.com /en /csr/modern-slavery-act.html by the Chief Wellness Officer (CWO). Specifically, the JAL Wellness Promotion Committee, chaired by the CWO and Monthly average overtime and rest day work hours per employee JAL Group Code of Conduct: Commitment to Society composed of directors, holds discussions and makes decisions Respect for human rights and job satisfaction ESG Management Ratio of annual paid leave taken 89.5% on health matters, while wellness leaders play the central 86.0% (1) Respect for human rights and diversity 85.5% 84.0% The JAL Group is committed to fulfilling its role in activities at the workplace level, complemented by a responsibility to respect the human rights of all support system comprised of executive officers. 12.0 11.4 people. This means that we respect all stakeholders including customers and everyone who works for the 8.5 JAL Group, do not discriminate based on gender, age, 7.9 Workstyle Innovation national or regional origin, race, ethnicity, religion, social status, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity or other attributes, and respect diversity so Financial Data/ Corporate Information Basic stance We continue to move forward with a range of initiatives to that everyone can exercise their originality. We also innovate workstyles and create a basis for all employees to work conduct ourselves in a way so that we do not cause FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 harm to anyone or become involved in human rights with motivation. Innovations include the use of IT tools that give * Japan Airlines Co., Ltd. only violations in our business activities. Regarding respect people more freedom in workstyles, improvements to offices for human rights, we will always address any issues, and work environments, the introduction of “workation,” publicly disclose the current situation, and continue “bleisure” and other programs to encourage employees to take to make improvements through human rights due long vacations, and improvement of teleworking to promote diligence* conducted in accordance with our Human flexible workstyles. Rights Policy. * A process to preemptively identify, prevent and mitigate any adverse In fiscal year 2018, we launched initiatives using AI and robotics impacts that our business activities may have on human rights to speed up work process reviews and integrate common tasks. (2) Highly rewarding work environments Carrying on from the previous year, in fiscal year 2019, we will The JAL Group takes steps to continuously be an further expand communication spaces that spark cross-section organization that ambitiously embraces challenges communication for value creation activities and for workstyle and creates value. In addition, through healthcare innovation with increased work efficiency. management and continuous workstyle innovation, we create work environments that are healthy and safe, both mentally and physically, where employees find work rewarding. SKY TERRACE communication space in the Tennozu Building (For details of supply chain initiatives, please refer to the section starting on P.77.) 62 63 HUMAN RIGHTS, DIVERSITY & INCLUSION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Initiatives in Fiscal Year 2018 Initiatives in Fiscal Year 2019 Basic Stance on Corporate Governance governance system that results in a high level of management transparency, increase corporate value and In fiscal year 2018, the JAL Group identified issues at each In fiscal year 2019, we will deal with issues in order of The JAL Group aims to contribute to society through its achieve accountability. stage of the value chain by business. priority. Since the first half of fiscal year 2019, we have business operations. As the leading company for safety in The Board of Directors has established corporate Further, while referring to issues raised by NGOs and been working on three issues of particularly high priority: Japan’s transportation sector, we will provide unparalleled governance that adheres to the Fundamental Policies of civil society, and reflecting the opinions of specialists, we establishment of grievance mechanism, prevention of service to our customers while maintaining flight safety, Corporate Governance as important policies in accordance Message from the President assessed the impact of issues identified using a plot graph infringement of the right to work of foreign workers in the basic foundation of the JAL Group. We also endeavor with the Companies Act and relevant laws and regulations, with b(1) severity of potential human rights impact on one Japan; and initiatives to prevent human trafficking. to fulfill our economic responsibility of making profits by and reviews it at least once a year. axis; and (2) likelihood of human rights impact on the other providing high-quality products through fair competition For the Fundamental Policies of Corporate Governance and axis. We then clarified high-priority human rights issues and Grievance mechanism and fulfill our corporate social responsibilities. the Corporate Governance Report, please refer to the JAL countermeasures. In fiscal year 2019, we will continue to review operating In line with this thinking, we have established the JAL website. results of hotlines in the Group, and progressively open Philosophy in accordance with the JAL Group Corporate Important Human Rights Issues Identified in the Air hotlines for customers and workers such as suppliers in Policy and will make speedy and appropriate decisions. WEB https://www.jal.com /en /outline /governance / Transportation Business the supply chain. We will also address human rights risks At the same time, we will strive to establish a corporate Issues directly related to JAL at suppliers through cross-section collaboration including Business Activities and Strategy High procurement departments and product and service planning • Forced labor (including specified skilled workers and departments. foreign students) Severity of potential human rights impact • Damage to health of local • Involvement in human Preventing infringement of the right to work for foreign trafficking by using aircrafts residents through release of chemical substances or workers in Japan Evolution of Improvement of JAL’s Corporate Governance System polluted water from company The JAL Group will take steps to develop environments facilities where all employees can work with motivation regardless • FY2012 JAL formulates Fundamental Policies of Corporate Governance JAL REPORT 2019 of nationality. When accepting foreign workers applying • FY2015 Corporate Governance Committee established • Infringement of right to work in a healthy and safe the new “specified skilled worker” visa, we will create an • FY2015 New Management Committee established to clarify separation of oversight and executive functions environment environment that ensures job satisfaction as well as fulfilling • FY2015 Authority over matters subject to resolution of the Board of Directors delegated to executive function. • Infringement of right to access standards. to redress measures (including • FY2015 Board effectiveness evaluated (questionnaire format) ESG Management right to redress for harassment from customers and suppliers) • FY2015 Discussions begin on succession planning for senior management positions Human trafficking prevention initiatives • FY2016 Number of External Directors increased from 2 to 3 In fiscal year 2019, we will provide education on the LowHigh Likelihood of human rights impact • FY2017 New remuneration system introduced for officers, including performance-linked remuneration and shareprevention of human trafficking, centered on divisions that based remuneration could potentially be the scene of human trafficking and • FY2017 JAL formulates Training Policy for Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members establish procedures to prevent human trafficking with Issues occurring among suppliers • FY2017 Board effectiveness evaluated (independent organization engaged to conduct 3rd assessment using a reference to measures considered by international agencies. High • Involvement in forced labor questionnaire and interview format) (including foreign technical • Involvement in forced/child • FY2017 Succession plans formulated for the President and other company leaders (compliance with the Corporate Financial Data/ Corporate Information interns, specified skilled workers (For details of supply chain initiatives, please refer to the section starting on P.77.) and foreign students) at labor at developing country Governance Code) domestic subcontractor subcontractor and suppliers • FY2018 Compliance with the revised Corporate Governance Code • Involvement in damage to health • Involvement in damage to Severity of potential human rights impact of, or infringement of right of, health of, or infringement • FY2019 Risk Management Council established (oversight function of the Board of Directors strengthened) local residents through release of of right of, local residents chemical substances or polluted through release of chemical • FY2019 Board effectiveness evaluated (4th assessment using knowledge and experience gained from third party water from company facilities substances or polluted water organization, anonymous questionnaire format) from oil/mining sites • Involvement in violence to local residents • Infringement of right to • Involvement in infringement work in a healthy and safe of right to work in a healthy environment and safe environment • Infringement of right to access at developing country to redress measures (including subcontractor and suppliers right to redress for harassment • Involvement in infringement from customers and suppliers) of right to residence of local • Involvement in infringement residents or indigenous people of the right to privacy of local by farmland development/oil residents and mineral mining etc. LowHigh Likelihood of human rights impact 64 65 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Board of Directors and Directors Directors Establishment of Various Committees Legal considerations are explained to the Directors to Board of Directors ensure that they are aware of their responsibilities, To build a corporate governance system that results in under the Board of Directors. External Directors make up the The Board of Directors ensures strong management oversight including the “fiduciary duty of loyalty” and the “duty of high management transparency and strong management majority of each of the committees, ensuring independence based on a high level of management transparency through ensuring prudent management.” The term of office is set monitoring, various committees have been established from JAL’s executive management. the election of candidates for the positions of Director, Audit at one year to confirm their accountability each fiscal year. Message from the President & Supervisory Board member and Executive Officer, decides The Company has also introduced a remuneration system (FY2018) their remuneration, and makes important decisions. for Directors (excluding External Directors) based on sound Corporate Governance Compensation Officers Disciplinary To separate the management oversight function and financial incentives designed to promote sustained growth. Committee Nominating Committee Personnel Committee Committee Committee Committee executive function, the Board appoints a Director who External Directors are appointed from among persons with Chairperson Eizo Kobayashi Masatoshi Ito Eizo Kobayashi Yuji Akasaka Eizo Kobayashi does not serve concurrently as an Executive Officer as vast knowledge and experience in various fields to ensure Chairperson, and an appropriate number of three or more diversity. Those who do not qualify as highly independent Yoshiharu Ueki Yoshiharu Ueki Yoshiharu Ueki Yoshiharu Ueki Yoshiharu Ueki Board Masatoshi Ito Yuji Akasaka Yuji Akasaka Eizo Kobayashi Yuji Akasaka External Directors who qualify as highly independent. as defined by the “Standards for Independence of External member Sonoko Hatchoji Eizo Kobayashi Masatoshi Ito Masatoshi Ito Masatoshi Ito External Directors provide advice on JAL’s management and Directors” established by the Company are not appointed. Sonoko Hatchoji Sonoko Hatchoji Sonoko Hatchoji Sonoko Hatchoji proper supervision of the execution of duties from practical Furthermore, one External Director among the External Number of 3 7 3 2 2 Business Activities and Strategy and multilateral perspectives. Directors is appointed Lead Independent External Director meetings To carry out efficient decision-making, the board may to improve coordination with the Audit & Supervisory Board The Corporate When submitting The Compensation When appointing or Any disciplinary action delegate decision-making concerning matters set forth in members and internal divisions. Governance Committee a proposal to the Committee discusses dismissing an Executive imposed on Directors the Administrative Authority Criteria Table to the President For the standards used in determining the independence inspects initiatives General Meeting of matters concerning the Officer, the Board of or Executive Officers under the JAL Group Shareholders concerning amounts of compensation Directors consults the is determined by the pursuant to Regulations for Kessai (written approval) of External Directors, please refer to the JAL Group’s Fundamental Policies of the appointment of paid to Directors, Personnel Committee Officers Disciplinary Corporate Governance at candidates to the Executive Officers and and takes the Personnel Committee. and Administrative Authority approved by the board. Fundamental Policies of Corporate Governance. least once a year, conducts positions of Director Audit & Supervisory Committee’s response The Management Committee has been established for analyses and evaluations and Audit & Supervisory Board members based on into account before JAL REPORT 2019 to verify whether they Board member, the requests from the Board making a decision. contributing to appropriate and flexible decision-making Functions contribute to sustainable Nominating Committee of Directors and reports growth and enhancement makes a comprehensive back to the board. concerning management issues by the Board of Directors Key Topics of Discussion by the Board of Directors of corporate value in the judgment of the and the President. medium to long term, personality, knowledge, and provides necessary ability, experience and The Board of Directors has established the Corporate • Reviews of corporate governance and establishment of recommendations and performance of the Governance Committee, comprised of the Chairperson response policies reports to the Board of candidate in response to ESG Management Directors. inquiries from the Board of the Board and External Directors, which reviews the • Decision of directors, including oversight of succession of Directors and reports back to the board. Fundamental Policy of Corporate Governance every year. The plans for the President and other company leaders Committee evaluates Board effectiveness in terms of board • Establishment and progress management of mediumto • Deliberations and • Candidates for the • Officer remuneration • Structure of Executive • Disciplinary actions recommendations positions of Director (basic remuneration, Officers against officers composition, culture, oversight, board operations, discussions long-term strategies regarding board and Audit & Supervisory annual incentives, longon management strategies and dialogue with shareholders, • Establishment and review of capital policy, including effectiveness Board member term incentives) Key topics of • Revision of the • Responses to the takes appropriate action and discloses its findings. shareholder returns discussion in Fundamental Policies of Corporate Governance • Risk management system, including monitoring of FY2018 Corporate Governance Code and to the in accordance with evaluated board Financial Data/ Corporate Information responses to events updates to the effectiveness Corporate Governance • Decision and oversight of other important execution of Code Corporate Governance System duties General Meeting of Shareholders Appointment/Dismissal Appointment/Dismissal Appointment/Dismissal Auditing Audit & Board of Directors Supervisory Board Appointment/Dismissal/ Appointment/Dismissal/ Corporate Governance Report Recommendation Committee Instruction/Command Instruction/Delegation of Authority Collaboration Advisory Management Nominating Committee Committee Report Executive President Compensation Committee Recommendation Personnel Committee Officers Disciplinary Committee Accounting Financial Audit Auditor the Council Corporate Management Group Earnings JAL Risk for Group Brand Announcement Philosophy Management Liaison Audit Collaboration Safety Promotion Committee Session Council Council Enhancement Council Collaboration Risk Management Investment Report Instruction/ Committee Monitoring Group Tokyo 2020 CSR Significant Delegation of Operational Olympic and Committee Committee Legal Advisors Issues Authority Financial Safety Paralympic Guidance/Advice Risk Committee Promotion Promotion Committee Committee JAL Wellness Executive Officers Promotion Committee Departments and Subsidiaries 66 67 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Audit & Supervisory Board and Audits Successors to the President and Other Leaders Evaluating Board Effectiveness Board effectiveness was assessed this year for the fourth Audit & Supervisory Board The Company defines the President and other board Under the Fundamental Policies of Corporate Governance, time; details are as follows. Moreover, at least once every The Audit & Supervisory Board makes appropriate members as persons with qualities to steadily get positive every year the JAL Group assesses board effectiveness and three years, an independent organization is involved in the judgments from an independent, objective perspective, results toward realizing the Corporate Policy by working appropriately reviews board operations, while referring evaluation, the most recent evaluation conducted in fiscal based on their fiduciary responsibilities to the shareholders, together with every staff based on a firm commitment to to evaluations of individual Directors and other resources. year 2017. Message from the President when fulfilling their roles and responsibilities, such as flight safety, which is the foundation of the JAL Group, and auditing the execution of Directors’ duties, appointing display of initiative in practicing the JAL Philosophy. The or dismissing accounting auditors and executing rights Company assists candidates for President and other posts concerning auditors’ remuneration. to quickly acquire grounding and discipline necessary for Assessment Process management through practical and diverse experiences. Process for Evaluating Board Effectiveness Audit & Supervisory Board Members The Nominating Committee holds ongoing discussions on Determination by the Corporate Governance Committee on how to proceed with board effectiveness evaluation, including details of the questionnaire Audit & Supervisory Board members monitor important potential successors to the president and other company matters concerning corporate management, business leaders responsible for reforming the Group and driving • Primary items for evaluation in the questionnaire are board composition, culture, oversight, operations and the execution of duties by reviewing growth to ensure the Corporate Policy and management operations, discussion on management strategies and dialogue with shareholders Business Activities and Strategy important Kessai (written approval) documents, as well strategies are maintained, and reports on these discussions Individual questionnaire for Directors as participating in board meetings and other important to Directors. meetings. Furthermore, Audit & Supervisory Board members • To maintain anonymity, the Secretariat of the Board sends the questionnaire to Board and staff members conduct an annual audit of each business members and summarizes responses. site, subsidiary and affiliated company and report the results Support and Training Policy for Directors to the Representative Directors. They also share information and Audit & Supervisory Board members with internal audit departments and accounting auditors Tabulation of questionnaires by Secretariat of the Board JAL REPORT 2019 and hold regular meetings with corporate auditors of Legal considerations are explained to Directors to ensure Report subsidiaries to improve and strengthen auditing within the that they are aware of their responsibilities including the JAL Group. fiduciary duty of loyalty and the duty of care as a prudent Discussion by the Board of Directors about Report issues and measures Audit & Supervisory Board members are provided with manager and opportunities are provided for continuous company information, and opportunities to participate in participation in external training, affiliated organizations ESG Management external training and external associations, etc. and such. We provide opportunities to Audit & Supervisory Further discussion by the Board Corporate Governance Committee Recommendations External Audit & Supervisory Board members are appointed Board members for continuous participation in external from among persons with vast knowledge and experience training, affiliated associations, etc., in addition to providing Decision made on policy for initiatives by in various fields, and those who do not qualify as highly corporate information. the Board of Directors independent as defined by the “Standards for Independence To deepen the understanding of the Company of Directors of External Directors” established by the Company are not and Audit & Supervisory Board members, we provide safety appointed. External Audit & Supervisory Board members education such as a memorial climb up Mt. Osutaka and Financial Data/ Corporate Information ensure sound management by conducting audits from a visits to the Safety Promotion Center, in addition to visiting Results of assessment Future issues and initiatives for Board enhancement neutral and objective standpoint, with the cooperation of frontlines. We also provide advance explanations on agenda It was confirmed that the Board of Directors conducts On the other hand, several needs have been confirmed internal audit departments and accounting auditors. items to be submitted for deliberation, as necessary, and free and open-minded discussions, with the opinions of by the Board of Directors, including the need to shift opportunities to explain other matters at their request. External Directors respected by internal Directors, who toward strategic discussions in order to present JAL’s In addition, the Forum of Independent External have been appointed in a good balance including from overall direction when formulating the next Medium Officers, comprised of External Directors and Audit & frontline divisions given the importance of flight safety. In Term Management Plan starting in 2020, strengthening Supervisory Board members, and sponsored by the Lead addition, External Directors have been highly accessible to preventive and continuous risk management in order to Independent External Director, is held several times a information as requested, and the roles of External Directors support sound growth, bolstering the oversight function year. The participants are briefed on JAL’s international are being appropriately fulfilled through efforts centering of the Board by enhancing its monitoring capacity, and network strategy, competition strategy, human resources on the Lead Independent External Director. promoting constructive dialogue with shareholders. Going strategy, and risk management, in order to deepen their forward, we will steadily put such initiatives into action. understanding of the Company’s business. In fiscal year 2018, newly appointed External Directors and External Audit & Supervisory Board members were given safety education, including field visits and a tour of the Safety Promotion Center, and were provided opportunities to deepen their understanding about JAL’s history and the JAL Philosophy. 68 69 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Remuneration of Directors Framework for incentive remuneration Compliance Whistle blowing contact point 1. Annual incentives (performance-linked bonuses) We have set up a Group Hotline with contact points in the Remuneration Policy for Directors (excluding External The amount to be paid every fiscal year as an annual Compliance promotion system Company and a law firm, which can be used by any person Directors) and Executive Officers incentive will vary from approximately 0 to 200 To promote compliance with all applicable laws, regulations working for the JAL Group. This enables us to promptly depending on the degree of achievement, with 100 and rules governing our corporate activities, we have identify and remedy cases of misconduct, power harassment Basic policy representing the amount to be paid when achievement is designated the General Affairs Department of Japan Airlines and other issues and reinforce compliance management. Message from the President 1. To support the sustainable and steady growth of the in line with performance targets. Co., Ltd. to oversee all compliance matters and are focusing Company and the JAL Group and to increase corporate value on elevating staff awareness through various measures. Corruption prevention measures Performance Evaluation Indices over the medium and long term, the Company will encourage In order to pursue profit in a fair manner, the JAL Group • Net profit attributable to owners of parent the performance of duties consistent with its Corporate Policy 1. Every JAL Group staff is encouraged to practice the has, based on the global tide of business scope expansion • Indices related to safe flight operations and management strategies and provide strong incentives • Individual evaluation indices for each officer, etc. JAL Philosophy in their day-to-day work and can view and efforts to prevent bribery and prevent money for the achievement of specific management targets. the following regulations and handbooks related to laundering, stipulated corruption prevention as part of 2. To encourage a healthy entrepreneurial spirit, the Company Evaluation indices will be considered for review as necessary compliance on the Group's Intranet. the JAL Group Code of Conduct “Commitment to Society.” will establish appropriate proportions for annual incentives in accordance with changes in business conditions, the roles The JAL Group complies with anti-corruption laws and (performancelinked bonuses) linked to fiscal year of each officer and other factors. * JAL Group Regulations on Preventing Insider Trading regulations in countries and regions where it conducts Business Activities and Strategy performance and for long-term incentives (performance2. Long-term incentives (performance-linked share-based * JAL Group Handbook on Protecting Personal Information air transport business, such as Japan's Unfair Competition linked share-based remuneration) linked to corporate value in remuneration) * Information Security Action Handbook Prevention Act, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the accordance with mediumto long-term performance, designed The number of shares to be granted every fiscal year as * Guide to the Antimonopoly Act British Bribery Act, and the Chinese Commercial Bribery Act. to promote alignment of interests with its shareholders. a long-term incentive will vary from approximately 0 to * Group Hotline Regulations We will take steps to prevent bribery and corruption which 3. The Company will reward the management team 220 depending on the degree of achievement, with 100 could lead to suspected bribery, and prevent corruption as a appropriately based on the Company’s business performance. representing the number to be granted when achievement 2. The following diverse initiatives are implemented for member of society. is in line with performance targets. The performance Group employees. Furthermore, in fiscal year 2018, we JAL REPORT 2019 Remuneration levels and composition evaluation period will be three years, with performance for dedicated special efforts to alcohol-related training. 1. The Company will set appropriate remuneration levels based three consecutive fiscal years evaluated every year. JAL Group Code of Conduct Commitment to Society on the Company’s operating environment and with reference * Face-to-face compliance education, including measures at Preventing Corruption Performance Evaluation Indices to objective data on remuneration in the marketplace. individual business sites Indices prioritized in the Medium Term Management Plan We do not give or accept bribes of any form, 2. Considering factors including the nature of the * The publication of quarterly compliance newsletters ESG Management • Consolidated operating profit margin whether direct or indirect, in our business activities Company’s business and the effectiveness of incentive * Seminars about laws and regulations organized by the • Consolidated ROIC domestically or internationally. In addition, we do not remuneration, fixed remuneration and performance• Customer satisfaction, etc. Legal Affairs Department give or accept undue cash, gifts or entertainment or linked remuneration are comprised as follows. * Practical exercises on how to deal with targeted email any other benefits in excess of social norms. Evaluation indices will be considered for review for each attacks and other threats (Assuming 100% achievement against targets) (1) Amount of fixed basic remuneration:* 50% Medium Term Management Plan period. * Biannual e-learning on information security (2) Amount of annual incentives (performance-linked With respect to common stock granted to eligible bonuses) to be paid according to the degree of Directors and Executive Officers through the share-based Through these initiatives, we aim to foster a culture of Financial Data/ Corporate Information achievement against targets: 30% remuneration plan, the Company will establish a target compliance across the entire JAL Group, ensure business (3) Amount of long-term incentives (performancenumber of held shares for each position and impose limits activities are in tune with accepted social standards and linked share-based remuneration) to be issued on share sales to further promote the aligning of interests reduce legal risk. according to the degree of achievement against with shareholders. In addition, a director from each JAL Group company targets: 20% is given overall responsibility for compliance at their The above ratio is for guidance only and adjustments can Procedures for determining remuneration respective company. These directors comprise the JAL Group be made to reflect changes in the price of the Company’s Matters related to remuneration for Directors and Executive Compliance Network, which is responsible for swiftly sharing shares or other factors. Officers will be decided by the Board of Directors following relevant information and strengthening the compliance * This amount excludes allowances in cases where an Executive Officer a deliberation and recommendation process by the framework at each Group company. This includes sending serves concurrently as a Director or where an Executive Officer has representative authority. Company’s voluntarily established Compensation Committee quarterly email newsletters containing useful information, (refer to P.67). such as news about compliance developments inside and outside the Group and compliance case studies. FY2018 Actual Remuneration Paid to Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members Total amount for each type of remuneration, etc. Total amount of remuneration, etc. (millions of yen) Number of officers (millions of yen) Basic Share-based Bonus*1 remuneration remuneration, etc.*2 Directors 13 519 278 181 60 (including External Directors) (4) (36) (36) (–) (–) Audit & Supervisory Board members 6 78 78 – – (including External Audit & Supervisory Board members) (4) (29) (29) (–) (–) *1 Annual incentives (performance-linked bonuses) *2 Long-term incentives (performance-linked share-based remuneration) 70 71 BOARD OF DIRECTORS (As of June 30, 2019) Directors Message from the President Business Activities and Strategy JAL REPORT 2019 ESG Management 7 1.Yoshiharu Ueki (DOB:September 16, 1952) 2.Yuji Akasaka (DOB:January 3, 1962) 9 1 4 5 6 3.Tadashi Fujita (DOB:October 25, 1956) 4.Hideki Kikuyama (DOB:March 19, 1960) 8 3 Representative Director, Chairman Representative Director, Executive President 2 Representative Director, Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer Governance Nominating Compensation Chairman of the Management Committees, Chairman of the Council 10 Executive Vice President General Manager, Finance & Accounting Division for Group Safety Enhancement, Chairman of the Corporate Brand Aide to the President, Chief Wellness Officer, Personnel Disciplinary Promotion Council, Chairman of the JAL Philosophy Committee, General Chairman of the JAL Wellness Promotion Committee Since joining the company, Director Kikuyama has Manager of JAL SDGs, Chairman of the Risk Management Council held successive positions in IT systems, passenger Since joining the company, Chairman Ueki has Since joining the company, Executive Vice reservations, human resources and industrial affairs, acquired very high levels of insight into flight Nominating Compensation Personnel Disciplinary Financial Data/ Corporate Information President Fujita has worked mainly in the corporate planning and other divisions at Head Office safety and frontline experience as cockpit crew. Since joining the company, President Akasaka has served sales department at Head Office. As General and branch offices in the Americas and other regions, As Representative Director and President since mainly in the Engineering & Maintenance Division and has Manager of Managing Division Passenger and has exercised exceptional leadership and strong 2012, he has demonstrated strong leadership acquired very high levels of frontline experience and insight Sales, he assumed overall responsibility planning and coordination capabilities to achieve and decision-making capabilities, overseeing the into flight safety. He also gained extensive knowledge for the entire passenger sales division and positive results. As Director, Senior Managing Executive preparation of the Medium Term Management and a network of connections in the airline maintenance achieved positive results. As Representative Officer of Managing Division Route Marketing since Plan and executing it responsibly. From 2018, industry. From 2014, he has brought his strong leadership Director and Executive Vice President 2016, he has contributed greatly to maximizing he continues to help strengthen the oversight and decision-making capabilities to JAL Engineering Co., serving as Aide to the President since route profitability. As Director, Senior Managing function of the Board as Chairman of the Board Ltd. as President and has strengthened the of flight safety 2016, he is contributing significantly to Executive Officer of the Finance & Accounting and as a member of the Corporate Governance foundation. As Representative Director and President since further improving and strengthening the Division since 2019, he has assured highly transparent Committee, the Nominating Committee, 2018, he aims to realize the Corporate Policy through joint management team. information disclosures that are comprehensible for Compensation Committee and other committees. efforts with all employees by maintaining flight safety, the shareholders and investors, and has demonstrated basic foundation of the JAL Group, and guiding employees precise management decision-making capabilities that in practicing the JAL Philosophy by showing by example. support shareholders’ interests. 5.Shinichiro Shimizu (DOB:December 13, 1962) 6.Ryuzo Toyoshima (DOB:August 17, 1959) 7.Nobuyoshi Gondo (DOB:May 3, 1956) 8.Eizo Kobayashi (DOB:January 7, 1949) 9.Masatoshi Ito (DOB:September 12, 1947) 10.Sonoko Hatchoji (DOB:January 15, 1950) Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer Director, Managing Executive Officer, External Director Independent External Director Independent External Director Independent General Manager, Secretary’s Office General Manager, Managing Division Route Marketing Safety General Manager Governance Nominating Compensation Governance Nominating Compensation Governance Nominating Compensation Personnel Disciplinary General Manager, Corporate Safety & Security Personnel Disciplinary Personnel Disciplinary Since joining the company, Director Shimizu has held Since joining the company, Director Toyoshima Manager, Family Assistance & Support External Director Hatchoji has experience in financial successive positions in personnel and industrial affairs has held successive positions in industrial affairs product development, loans and risk management at Since joining the company, Director Gondo has As the head of management at a global As the head of global enterprises, External divisions related to cockpit crew and cabin attendants, related to cockpit crew, including Vice President, banks, and vast knowledge and extensive experience acquired very high levels of insight into flight general trading company, External Director Director Ito has great business insight and and has exercised exceptional leadership and strong and has exercised exceptional leadership and in customer-centric marketing and management safety and frontline experience as a cockpit crew. Kobayashi has extensive experience and extensive experience in marketing and planning and coordination capabilities to achieve positive strong planning and coordination capabilities strategy in hotel management. She also has diverse Drawing on his experience acquired as General vast business insight into global business business strategy. He brings practical and results. As General Manager of Human Resources since to achieve positive results. As General Manager perspectives in areas such as education reforms at Manager, Corporate Safety & Security, he has management and leadership of diversified diverse perspectives to the management and 2013 and the Secretary’s Office since 2016, he is making of Corporate Control since 2015, he has universities. She draws on this experience to provide contributed greatly to maintaining safety, the group companies. He brings practical and provides sound business supervision for JAL. considerable contributions to improving and stabilizing contributed significantly to the expansion of the JAL with management advice and sound business basic foundation of the JAL Group. diverse perspectives to the management and JAL’s presence through precise evaluation of JAL’s amoeba management system within the JAL supervision. provides sound business supervision for JAL. position from a high-level perspective. Group. 72 Governance Corporate Governance Committee Nominating Nominating Committee Compensation Compensation Committee Personnel Personnel Committee Disciplinary Officers Disciplinary Committee 73 MESSAGE FROM EXTERNAL DIRECTORS Develop into an Enterprise That Creates New Value As chairperson of the Nominating Committee, I am also involved in the appointment of candidates to the positions of Director, and I get a real feeling of JAL’s open Message from the President corporate culture each day. For instance, we can prepare carefully before meetings, because reference materials for Board meetings are provided to us in advance. We are also involved in discussions from the early stages of review when drafting Medium Term Management Plans. On the other hand, one area where I feel there are issues to resolve is the ability to create new ideas for the future. Up until now, all airlines have operated businesses with a focus on “hard” services, namely, establishing routes and attracting customers. Nowadays, however, customer needs are diversifying. Imagination and creativity, Masatoshi Ito External Director which is the ability to look ahead 10 and 20 years from now and create new systems, are needed to survive in the aviation industry. I feel that such experience is still Business Activities and Strategy Attendance at Board of Directors meetings: 100% (19 of 19 meetings) lacking, both at the organizational and individual levels. Main concurrent positions: Representative Application of artificial intelligence (AI) and other technological innovations is Director and Chairman of Ajinomoto Co., advancing at a rapid pace worldwide. Looking ahead, I will draw on my experiences Inc., President of the Japan Advertisers Association Inc., External Director of at a consumer goods company, where we developed global management, and offer Yamaha Corporation, External Director of JAL Group Corporate Governance for Sustainable Growth NEC Corporation advice at Board meetings and other meetings to create a company capable of offering new value in addition to air transportation. JAL REPORT 2019 The JAL Group has three independent External Directors. They actively contribute to meetings of the Board of Directors and various voluntary committees, and their experience and knowledge are drawn upon when formulating Group strategies and making management decisions. Going forward, we will continue to realize sustainable growth for the JAL Group by incorporating objective advice Don’t Forget Experiences from the Bankruptcy ESG Management offered by External Directors in management. JAL’s Board of Directors and various committees readily seek and accept critical opinions. They are also very open forums where participants engage in substantive discussion. The Build a Corporate Climate That Tolerates Mistakes same is also true of the Management Committee and other executive meetings. This corporate culture seems to have been cultivated from the fact that many officers During the four years since I was appointed as an External Director at JAL, I have and employees who experienced the bankruptcy, learned lessons and reflected them in been heavily involved in strengthening governance, most recently as chairperson of the JAL Philosophy are taking active participation in operations. Financial Data/ Corporate Information the Corporate Governance Committee. From time to time, we have reviewed board In order to continuously instill the JAL Philosophy throughout the Company, and to operations, taking into account the results of the first four annual evaluations of candidly discuss current issues, monthly workshop-style conferences are held, attended board effectiveness. Looking ahead, I will contribute to realizing the vibrant operation by over 200 directors and Vice President including the President and Chairman of the of the Board of Directors, while responding sincerely to external requests for stronger Board. While it appears that current favorable performance is supported by these Sonoko Hatchoji governance. External Director efforts, I feel that it is essential not be complacent with the status quo but instead When considering JAL’s management issues from a mediumand long-term secure diversity in the Board if we are to take the company to the next stage, a global Attendance at Board of Directors perspective, one element that is both a strength and a potential weakness is human meetings: 100% (15 of 15 meetings) airline. With regard to female managers, there is a considerable number of talented resources. While I fully appreciate that employees have advanced capabilities including Main concurrent positions: Special women actively involved as executive officers, general managers and Vice Presidents, Eizo Kobayashi Advisor to the President and Chief External Director hospitality, considering international flight slots will expand and competition will and I expect it is only a matter of time before we see sustainable development of female Strategy Officer of Tsuda University, intensify due to the development of airports in metropolitan area, being a work External Director of Daicel Corporation, directors. The next issue is appointing human resources from overseas to important Lead Independent External Director External Director of Maruha Nichiro force with strong conservative and specialist elements could also be a drawback. It is Corporation posts. Attendance at Board of Directors meetings: 89.5% (17 of 19 meetings) advised to improve development of human resources capable of managing the next“Be humble, avoid arrogance, and continue to extend efforts.” The words of Honorary Main concurrent positions: Senior generation and creating new value by further strengthening cross-section personnel Adviser Dr. Kazuo Inamori are displayed in a room where directors work together Representative for Business Community exchanges, assigning overseas human resources to important posts and collaborating side by side and not in private rooms. It is almost 10 years since the bankruptcy. Relations of ITOCHU Corporation, External Director of OMRON Corporation, with other companies. Another issue is building a corporate climate that tolerates Going forward, I will continue to play my role as an External Director to maintain this External Director of Japan Exchange Group, Inc. mistakes. Only by pursing challenges will JAL be able to pioneer a new age. corporate climate and increase corporate value. Through clearly communicating my ideas at Board meetings and other committee meetings, I will continue to contribute my efforts to building a vibrant corporate climate. • Figures for attendance at Board of Directors meetings are from fiscal 2018. • Ms. Sonoko Hatchoji was newly appointed at the 69th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders on June 19, 2018, and became a member of the Board of Directors 74 on the same date. The number of meetings that she was eligible to attend is therefore different to other external members of the Board of Directors. 75 AUDIT & SUPERVISORY BOARD MEMBERS SUPPLY CHAIN INITIATIVES (As of July 1, 2019) Supply Chain Management Cooperating with suppliers and monitoring To verify compliance with the JAL Group Supplier Code of Basic stance Conduct, we utilize Sedex Information Exchange Limited Yasushi Suzuka During his career at JAL, Mr. Suzuka has engaged primarily in maintenance operations such as maintenance planning and engineering. With our suppliers (Sedex*1), which we joined in 2015. Audit & Supervisory Board Member He has made a substantial contribution to the Board with his extensive The JAL Group is aware of the need to gain the cooperation Using the CSR information platform provided by Sedex, we insight into production. He has been a member of JAL’s Audit & and support of many suppliers to operate its flights and select certain Group suppliers based on transaction volume Message from the President Supervisory Board since July 2012, he is also chairperson of the Japan provide products and services to customers daily. Therefore, regardless of product type or domestic/overseas location SAP Users’ Group. we strive to build strong partnerships with suppliers and ask them to become Sedex members and to respond Main concurrent positions:Nil based on mutual trust by ensuring fair and transparent to a self-assessment questionnaire. In fiscal year 2018, 150 procurement activities and .showing our appreciation for suppliers answered the self-assessment questionnaire. their support, as explained below. Going forward, we will continue to conduct supply chain risk assessments based on results of the self-assessment Norikazu Saito Working primarily in finance and accounting departments, Mr. Saito questionnaire using Sedex, and request improvements Audit & Supervisory Board made a substantial contribution to management of the JAL Group with 1. Fair and transparent procurement as needed of suppliers with a high likelihood of risks Member his extensive knowledge of finance, accounting, investor relations (IR), When selecting suppliers, we comprehensively assess materializing. a broad range of factors, such as product and service Business Activities and Strategy and other fields, before serving as Director, Senior Managing Executive By coordinating with suppliers through Sedex, we hope to Officer and General Manager of the Finance and Accounting Division quality, costs and delivery, the company’s reputation and contribute to the achievement of the SDGs and help resolve corporate social responsibility (CSR) and sustainability from June 2014. He has been a member of the Audit & Supervisory other social issues. In addition, as an Official Airline Partner initiatives. We also ensure fair and transparent Board since June 2019. of the Olympic and Paralympic Games Tokyo 2020, we are procurement activities by offering numerous opportunities Main concurrent positions:Nil for domestic and international suppliers to do business actively promoting initiatives based on the Sustainable with the JAL Group and conduct fair and transparent Sourcing Code.*2 procurement activities at all times. JAL REPORT 2019 Shinji Hatta Professor Hatta is an authority on financial auditing theory and corporate 2. To provide safe and reliable services to customers External Audit & Supervisory internal control and has served as an External Audit & Supervisory Board To deliver peace of mind to customers when they *1 Sedex, the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange, is a non-profit organization board our flights, we cultivate a culture of safety as top established in the U.K. in 2004 that provides a platform for managing Board Member Member for JAL since July 2012. and sharing corporate ethical information with the aim of ensuring Independent Officer Main concurrent positions:Professor at Ohara Graduate School of priority with our suppliers and conduct rigorous quality responsible business practices on supply chains. management to offer the finest hospitality. *2 Guidelines established by the Tokyo Organising Committee of the Attended 19 of 19 Board of Directors Accounting, Professor Emeritus at Aoyama Gakuin University, external ESG Management Olympic and Paralympic Games to ensure that services truly necessary meetings 3. Promoting sustainable procurement activities for the Olympic Games are procured with consideration for economic Attended 13 of 13 Audit & Audit & Supervisory Board Member for the Development Bank of Japan We work with suppliers to build sustainable supply chains, rationality, transparency and also other ethical principles and to ensure Supervisory Board meetings Inc. and a council member on the Japanese government’s Financial procurement with consideration for sustainability. including initiatives aimed at legal compliance, global Services Agency Business Accounting Council, among other positions. environment preservation, respecting of human rights, appropriate labor practices and fair business practices. Osamu Kamo Since his certification as an attorney in April 1973, Mr. Kamo has View supplier data External Audit & Supervisory accumulated extensive experience and expertise in compliance and Revision of the Supplier Code of Conduct and monitor Board Member Build mutual corporate governance. He has served as an External Audit & Supervisory improvements Financial Data/ Corporate Information The JAL Group has observed the JAL Group Supplier Code of understanding Independent Officer Board Member for JAL since June 2016. and trust Conduct since April 2016, but given the recent global focus Provide CSR data Attended 19 of 19 Board of Directors Main concurrent positions:Attorney for the Ginza Sogo Law Firm, based on meetings on supply chain management, we significantly revised the international Attended 13 of 13 Audit & committee chairperson for CHANS (Office for Government Procurement code in July 2019. The revised code covers eight key areas on standards* Supervisory Board meetings Challenge System, under the jurisdiction of the Japanese Cabinet Office), the major premise of securing safety: (1) quality assurance, and External Auditor for Azearth Corporation, among other positions. (2) human rights and labor, (3) safety and sanitation of Suppliers Provide CSR data, work environment, (4) global environment, (5) business submit reports on management, (6) expansion to suppliers, (7) contribution improvements Shinsuke Kubo After joining Sanwa & Co. Tokyo Marunouchi Office (current Deloitte to regions and society, and (8) establishment of internal External Audit & Supervisory Touche Tohmatsu LLC), Mr. Kubo cultivated extensive experience promotion systems. Commentary on social background and Evaluate CSR activities, Board Member and achievements and gained deep insight into accounting through examples of specific initiatives has also been added. advise on improvements, Independent Officer his involvement in many corporate audits, share listings, corporate monitor progress As in the past, we ask all our suppliers to understand and Attended 15 of 15 Board of Directors reorganization proceedings, M&A deals and other projects. He has served meetings since being appointed as a comply with the Supplier Code of Conduct, as we aim * International standards: ISO 14001, SA 8000, OHSAS 18001, member of the Audit & Supervisory as an External Audit & Supervisory Board Member for JAL since June 2018. Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI) Base Code, etc. Board to establish sound supply chains with considerations for Main concurrent positions:Managing Partner of Kyoei Accounting Attended 9 of 9 Audit & Supervisory sustainability to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals. Board meetings Office and Representative Director of Japan Enterprise Sustainable Transformation Advisory Co., Ltd., among other positions. JAL Group Supplier Code of Conduct Note: The number of Board of Directors meetings and Audit & Supervisory Board meetings attended by Independent External Auditors are the actual attendances WEB https://www.jal.com /en /outline /client/ for fiscal year 2018. Mr. Shinsuke Kubo was newly appointed at the 69th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders on June 19, 2018, and became a member of the Audit & Supervisory Board on the same date. The number of meetings that he was eligible to attend is therefore different to other external members of the Audit & Supervisory Board. 76 77 SUPPLY CHAIN INITIATIVES Identifying High-Risk Products Use of Certified Products To provide customers with safe and reliable services Nowadays, responsible procurement requires environmental need to worry about pests or disease or use pesticides. As <Deeper relationship with sustainable coffee> including inflight meals and cabin service products used in and social impacts to be considered, and a typical means for vegetables stay fresh for a long time, JAL customers can JAL CAFÉ LINES is an onboard service that aspires to serve flight, we are mindful to procure goods and services with this is “certification” programs. The JAL Group promotes enjoy their crispness. We have also reduced food waste the best tasting coffee. We began introducing coffee consideration to sustainability of the environment, human the use of certified materials by comparing the standards because little waste is generated during cooking. In fiscal sourced for sustainability in 2011 ahead of other airlines. Message from the President rights, labor and other social issues. In fiscal year 2018, used in various certification programs, setting a high, year 2020, we will use a variety of ASIAGAP certified Now, Rainforest Alliance certified*10 coffee beans are used in we screened all products procured by the JAL Group, and international third-party certification as the standard vegetables in a wider range of dishes. Economy Class on all flights. identified those products with particularly high risk. Going benchmark, and using safety-related certification programs Then, in December 2018, we began offering Doi Tung forward, we will conduct supplier audits when serious issues for inflight meals and cabin service products. coffee on board flights to and from Bangkok. Doi Tung are detected and further achieve sustainable procurement *6 ASIAGAP certification coffee was the outcome of a project in impoverished ASIAGAP certification is a global standard for farm management and by interviewing and engaging experts and NPOs. <Adoption of FSC® certified products> is given to farms conforming to many prescribed standards for food mountain areas of Thailand to convert fields of poppies Having established sustainable procurement standards for safety and environmental conservation, such as pesticide and fertilizer grown for opium production into coffee plantations. The management. paper, in September 2018, we began using FSC® certified*4 *7 JAL Agriport coffee was developed collaboratively by the Mae Fah Luang JAL Agriport is an agricultural joint venture with WAGO Co., Ltd. Located Process for Identifying High-Risk Products goods for cabin service products in cabins and lounges. in Narita, Chiba Prefecture, it operates tourist farms and sells private Foundation, which tackles poverty in Thailand, and Mi brand products. Business Activities and Strategy Currently, We have already adopted FSC certified paper Cafeto Co., Ltd., which provided local guidance on coffee (1) Take inventory of products cups, paper hand towels and menu cards, and by fiscal year cultivation technologies. 2020, we aim to have adopted FSC® certified products for (2) Prioritize products based on all onboard paper cabin service products including sanitary *10 Rainforest Alliance certification likelihood of risk and impact Rainforest Alliance certification indicates that a farmer has been audited products and magazines such as SKYWARD.*5 and assessed as meeting standards required for environmental, social and economic sustainability. (3) Create a risk map JAL REPORT 2019 (4) Identify products with Vegetable factory The JAL Group remains committed to reducing various of the Wagoen high sustainability risk *4 FSC certification ® risks along supply chains through the procurement of FSC® certification is a global forest certification scheme that delivers products from well-managed forests, which are managed in recommended certified materials, ensuring reliability environmentally, socially, and economically appropriate manner, to and safety for customers and striving for sustainable consumers in a visible way, thereby returning economic benefits to Auditing Suppliers that Provide Products <Introduction of sustainably sourced marine products> procurement. ESG Management producers. *5 These details are written with prior approval under FSC® promotional with High Sustainability Risk license (FSC®N003038). Having established sustainable procurement standards for marine products (wild and aquaculture), in June 2019, we As part of JAL Group’s efforts to address products identified began using such marine products in select inflight meals as having high sustainability risk, SMETA*3 audits were in Business Class. The marine products are sourced through conducted against seven suppliers. Based on results of AEON Co., Ltd. In fiscal year 2020, we will start to use and the audits, we worked with tier 1 suppliers on items that offer a variety of sustainably sourced MSC certified*8 and needed immediate improvement, and confirmed requests ASC certified*9 marine products in menus. Financial Data/ Corporate Information for improvement and results of corrective measures. *8 The Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) operates a certification program for sustainable and environmentally and socially conscious fisheries, and for the natural marine products caught by those fisheries. *3 SMETA (Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit) is an auditing scheme Logo for responsible forest *9 The Aquaculture Stewardship Council (ASC) operates a certification designed to improve corporate ethics in global supply chains and is management program for marine products bred at environmentally and socially widely accepted as an international standard. It enables strengths and conscious aquaculture farms. weaknesses (nonconformities) of companies to be identified against international standards and clarifies necessary action to further improve Doi Tung coffee plantation the company. For further details, please see the official Sedex website. WEB https://www.sedexglobal.com /smeta-audit/ <Adoption of ASIAGAP certified products> Having established sustainable procurement standards for agricultural products, in December 2018, we began using ASIAGAP certified*6 frilly leaf lettuce in select inflight meals in Business Class and Economy Class. The lettuce is sourced through JAL Agriport.*7 The Wagoen farm, where this lettuce is produced, is one of the largest plant factories in Japan where light, water and air are all completely artificially controlled. The farm has also acquired ASIAGAP certification. Since vegetables are grown in a completely closed environment, there is no 78 79 SUPPLY CHAIN INITIATIVES Pursuing Food Safety for Inflight Meals and Lounge Meals management methods. In fiscal year 2018, more than 100 <Pursuing safety for cabin service products> in accordance with the Food Sanitation Act, and whether hygiene audits were conducted and guidance provided to JAL is also pursuing safety for tableware used for inflight the toy has been designed to prevent accidental ingestion. JAL believes that health management at catering companies all inflight catering companies and JAL lounges. meal. During hygiene audits, careful checks are made to In fiscal year 2018, all toys had passed the ST Standard preparing inflight meals requires direct management and see whether inspections are being conducted in accordance Conformity Test. direct guidance, rather than being outsourced to an external *11 FSSC 22000 certification: FSSC 22000 is the world’s foremost with the Food Sanitation Act, and whether used tableware Message from the President international standard for food safety management systems, consisting agency. For this reason, hygiene audits are conducted by of ISO 22000 plus additional requirements, designed to reduce risks is being properly washed at prescribed temperatures. professional auditors familiar with FSSC22000*11—the associated with the safe provision of food. Regarding toys offered to children, given that children may *13 The toys safety standard comprises mechanical safety, flammable safety *12 Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point (HACCP): HACCP is a and chemical safety. Toys featuring the ST logo mean that they are global standard for food hygiene management—to confirm method of process control whereby hazards, such as contamination put the toys in their mouths, we are introducing products recommended by the Japan Toy Association as having been carefully by microbes, metal or other impurities, are predicted for each process, produced with regard to safety. that inflight catering companies at all destinations we from the receipt of ingredients to the serving of meals, and particularly that have undergone an ST Standard*13 Conformity Test. serve are operated properly in accordance with HACCP* 12 important processes are constantly monitored and recorded to help This test verifies whether inspections have been conducted prevent those hazards. Business Activities and Strategy Dialogue with External Expert To better understand how social conditions and the business environment are changing and to reflect those changes in our initiatives, JAL engaged in dialogue with an external expert on the global supply chain of the aviation business. Setting Clear Standards As for environmental issues on the supply chain, action is needed to deal with single plastic JAL REPORT 2019 While supply chain management requires a multifaceted perspective, social related to Ocean plastic pollution, a prominent issue in recent years which countries have begun issues in particular require respect for human rights and the right to work and an regulating. Consideration will also need to be given to the procurement of raw materials, order of priority according to guiding principles on business and human rights. including paper. This requires you to think of the obvious risks to people involved in your supply ESG Management chains. You need to understand that, if these risks eventuate, they could also pose Conclusion a risk to your company, and have a solid understanding of what should really The JAL Group is already investigating and shedding light on human rights issues. Once these be prioritized. When prioritizing initiatives, I think it is important you clarify the human rights impact assessments have been conducted, it is essential that human rights basis on which priorities have been set, for instance, whether you select areas due diligence be undertaken from high priority areas where there is significant risk, even if where JAL buys an extensive range of services or products with higher transaction there are difficult obstacles to overcome. While it seems likely that supply chain issues will values, or areas with higher human rights risks in the country where you operate. be ranked high in priority, it is important in supply chain management to clearly convey JAL Takeshi Shimotaya I also think it is important that, once clarified, this should be clearly described in Group’s philosophy on respecting human rights and your Supplier Code of Conduct to tier 1 Managing Director, JAL Group policies. suppliers and to exercise your influence (leverage) in seeking action from tier 2 and subsequent Financial Data/ Corporate Information Sustainavision Ltd. suppliers further upstream. Holding a series of study and training sessions to develop a deeper Mr.Shimotaya is a sustainabilityRequired Initiatives understanding for supply chain management both inside and outside JAL, and readily disclosing CSR consultant. After working for a major heavy industry manufacturer The key to addressing human rights and labor issues in supply chains is to Group information should also serve as a valuable initiative in enhancing corporate loyalty. from 1991, he moved to the United listen to the views of workers, community members and other people who are Kingdom in 2007, and earned an MSc in Environmental Assessment rights-holders but are unable to complain directly or to express their views to and Management from the University (For more details on our human rights initiatives, please refer to pages 63–64) of East Anglia, and an MBA from the the company. To achieve this, you need to create highly effective grievance University of Lancaster. He founded mechanisms for handling complaints or opinions. By selecting and auditing those Sustainavision in 2010, and has since worked to bridge the sustainability suppliers found in the analysis of self-assessment questionnaires as requiring gap between Europe and Japan. further auditing, you could verify conditions of workers, community members and other people involved. However, since auditing all suppliers is impossible, you need to build a user-friendly mechanism to receive complaints directly from workers and be able to implement remedial measures quickly when human rights violations are revealed. In addition, when building such a mechanism, a major factor in enhancing its effectiveness will be third-party intervention, creating a situation that protects any workers expressing complaints or opinions from being disadvantaged by reason of such expression. 80 81 FINANCIAL DATA — EIGHT-YEAR SUM MARY Billions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars*1 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 Years ended March 31 Operating revenue 1,204.8 1,238.8 1,309.3 1,344.7 1,336.6 1,288.9 1,383.2 1,487.2 13,399,954 Operating expenses 999.8 1,043.5 1,142.5 1,165.0 1,127.4 1,118.6 1,208.6 1,311.1 11,812,784 Operating income 204.9 195.2 166.7 179.6 209.1 170.3 174.5 176.1 1,587,170 Message from the President Ordinary income 197.6 185.8 157.6 175.2 209.2 165.0 163.1 165.3 1,489,863 Net profit attributable to owners of parent 186.6 171.6 166.2 149.0 174.4 164.1 135.4 150.8 1,358,744 Cash flow from operating activities 256.6 264.8 247.9 261.1 312.3 253.1 281.5 296.7 2,673,366 Cash flow from investing activities*2 △62.4 △129.0 △166.7 △199.2 △ 207.2 △ 215.5 △ 180.1 △ 186.3 △ 1,679,358 Cash flow from financing activities △274.4 △60.6 △61.9 △67.3 △ 49.6 △ 53.5 △ 55.8 △ 37.0 △ 333,696 Free cash flow*3 194.1 135.8 81.2 61.8 105.1 37.5 101.3 110.3 994,008 Depreciation and amortization 81.2 81.0 82.7 85.8 88.5 95.7 110.8 124.1 1,118,154 EBITDA*4 286.1 276.2 249.5 265.5 297.7 266.1 285.4 300.2 2,705,324 EBITDAR*5 318.4 307.1 281.0 292.7 321.1 286.2 305.4 320.1 2,884,782 Capital investment (Purchase of non-current assets) 98.6 121.8 164.5 198.6 210.6 233.1 208.0 222.1 2,001,315 As of fiscal year-end Total assets*6 1,087.6 1,216.6 1,340.1 1,473.3 1,578.9 1,728.7 1,853.9 2,030.3 18,292,891 Business Activities and Strategy Net assets 413.8 583.1 711.0 800.7 870.5 1,003.3 1,094.1 1,200.1 10,813,001 Interest-bearing debt 208.4 160.1 134.2 100.5 92.6 116.0 125.7 142.3 1,282,511 Shareholdersʼ equity 388.5 565.0 690.2 776.4 843.0 972.0 1,060.3 1,165.1 10,497,639 *1 US dollar amounts are provided for convenience only, based on Per share data (yen, U.S. dollars)* 7 the exchange rate of ¥110.99/ Net profit attributable to owners of parent 514.52 473.36 458.45 411.06 481.29 456.56 383.23 432.10 3.89 USD on March 31, 2019. Net assets 1,071.19 1,558.15 1,903.53 2,142.00 2,325.79 2,749.71 3,019.52 3,340.15 30.09 *2 Excluding deposits and withdrawals from deposit Dividends − 95.00 80.00 104.00 120.00 94.00 110.00 110.00 0.99 JAL REPORT 2019 accounts Average number of shares during the fiscal year (thousands of shares) 362,704 362,671 362,639 362,584 362,500 359,594 353,334 349,006 ­ *3 Free cash flow = Cash flow from operating activities + Cash flow Key Performance Indices from investing activities *4 EBITDA = Operating income + Operating margin (%) 17.0 15.8 12.7 13.4 15.7 13.2 12.6 11.8 ­ Depreciation expense ROE (%) 63.6 36.0 26.5 20.3 21.5 18.1 13.3 13.6 ­ *5 EBITDAR = Operating income + ROA (%) 17.9 16.9 13.0 12.8 13.7 10.3 9.7 9.1 ­ Depreciation expense + Aircraft ESG Management Equity ratio (%) 35.7 46.4 51.5 52.7 53.4 56.2 57.2 57.4 ­ leases *6 Total Assets amount as of the D/E ratio (Times) 0.5 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 ­ end of March, 2018 has been EBITDA margin（％）*8 23.8 22.3 19.1 19.8 22.3 20.6 20.6 20.2 ­ changed due to the revision of EBITDAR margin（％）*9 26.4 24.8 21.5 21.8 24.0 22.2 22.1 21.5 ­ the accounting standards and other regulations regarding Unit cost (yen)*10 8.3 8.4 8.6 8.7 9.1 9.4 10.1 10.4 ­ indication of deferred tax assets Unit cost (yen) (Including fuel cost) 11.3 11.5 12.2 12.3 11.7 11.7 12.5 13.1 ­ and liabilities from FY2018 (It Dividend payout ratio (%) − 20.1 17.5 25.3 24.9 20.6 28.7 25.5 ­ was 1,854.2Bn when disclosed Number of employees 30,648 30,636 31,020 30,978 31,331 32,047 33,038 34,003 ­ on April 27, 2018) *7 Japan Airlines Co., Ltd. conducted a 2-for-1 stock split Business data on October 1, 2014. Figures for Financial Data/ Corporate Information International passenger operations profit per share, net assets per Passenger revenues 385.2 406.6 437.5 454.8 448.7 415.2 462.9 530.6 4,781,322 share and dividend per share have been calculated assuming Available seat kms (million seat kms)*11,13 43,036 44,745 46,235 47,696 50,563 50,621 51,836 54,925 − the stock split was conducted at Revenue passenger kms (million passenger kms)*12,13 30,313 34,036 35,390 36,109 40,305 40,633 42,013 44,659 − the start of fiscal 2011. Revenue passengers carried (1,000)*13 6,844 7,525 7,723 7,793 8,460 8,394 8,585 9,128 − *8 EBITDA margin = EBITDA/ Operating revenue Revenue passenger load factor (%)*13 70.4 76.1 76.5 75.7 79.7 80.3 81.0 81.3 − *9 EBITDAR margin = EBITDAR / Yield (yen)*13 12.7 11.9 12.4 12.6 11.1 10.2 11.0 11.9 − Operating revenue Unit revenue (yen)*13 9.0 9.1 9.5 9.5 8.9 8.2 8.9 9.7 − *10 Unit cost = Consolidated air Domestic passenger operations transport cost (excluding fuel costs) / ASK Passenger revenues 481.1 485.2 487.4 487.5 501.2 498.6 518.2 528.0 4,758,068 *11 ASK (available seat kilometers). Available seat kms (million seat kms)*11 35,523 36,443 37,084 36,306 35,869 35,423 35,714 36,116 − A unit of passenger transport Revenue passenger kms (million passenger kms)*12 22,264 23,012 23,745 23,993 24,341 24,550 25,643 26,195 − capacity: Total number of seats Revenue passengers carried (1,000) 28,965 30,020 31,218 31,644 32,114 32,570 34,033 34,859 − x Distance flown (kms) *12 RPK (revenue passenger Revenue passenger load factor (%) 62.7 63.1 64.0 66.1 67.9 69.3 71.8 72.5 − kilometers). Total flight distance Yield (yen) 21.6 21.1 20.5 20.3 20.6 20.3 20.2 20.2 − covered by revenue passengers: Unit revenue (yen) 13.5 13.3 13.1 13.4 14.0 14.1 14.5 14.6 − Number of revenue passengers x Distance flown (kms). International cargo operations *13 From FY2015, revenue Cargo revenue 53.7 50.4 54.2 60.3 54.2 43.3 56.0 65.4 590,107 passengers carried, revenue Revenue cargo ton-km (million ton kms) 1,314 1,378 1,512 1,754 1,724 1,887 2,233 2,429 − passenger kilometers, available Domestic cargo operations seat kilometers and load factor include codeshare tickets sold Cargo revenue 25.0 25.0 25.4 24.2 23.3 22.2 22.4 21.8 196,891 by other companies for JALRevenue cargo ton-km (million ton kms) 355 360 366 356 363 357 364 343 − operated flights. 82 83 EVALUATION AND ANALYSIS OF FINAN CIAL CONDITIONS Economic Conditions Analysis of Consolidated Operating Results In fiscal year 2018, the international air travel demand and the Number of visitors to Japan Operating revenue Operating profit Profit attributable to owners of parent international air freight demand remained strong in the first-half of the fiscal year. It slowed down in the second-half of the fiscal (Millions of visitors) 45 1. Earnings Summary 1,487.2 ¥ billion ¥ 176.1 billion 150.8 ¥ billion Message from the President 40 year, but overall it went well. The domestic air travel demand 35 In fiscal year 2018, consolidated operating revenues increased by expansion and growth in profit-linked bonus payments. However, remained robust. 30 7.5% year over year to 1,487.2 billion yen. International passenger the Group continued its cost reduction efforts using its Divisioned Crude oil prices, which affect fuel costs and international 25 revenues rose by 67.7 billion yen, reflecting the revenue profitability management system and other approaches. passenger and international cargo revenues, increased 20 management measures that led to firm high yield demand As a result, consolidated operating profit rose by 0.9% year over significantly over the previous year in the first-half of the fiscal 15 10 for both outbound and inbound, together with an increase in year to 176.1 billion yen. year but dropped in the second-half of the fiscal year due to 5 fuel surcharge revenues and forex factors. Domestic passenger the slowdown of the Chinese economy. However, fuel prices 0 revenues also increased by 9.8 billion yen because of an increase Ordinary income increased by 1.3% year over year to 165.3 billion (Year) 1999 2020 2000 rose again from January 2019, partly attributable to the OPEC 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 in individual passengers etc. yen. Expense of loss on sales and disposal of flight equipment 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 agreement to cut oil production and expectations for progress in 2018 Source: Japan National Tourism Organization Operating expenses increased by 8.5% year over year to 1,311.1 increased, however, non-operating expenses decreased due to U.S.-China trade talks, which left fuel price projections unclear. Business Activities and Strategy billion yen. Fuel costs increased by 35.9 billion yen due to higher foreign exchange loss of 2.4 billion yen in the previous fiscal year. fuel prices, maintenance costs rose by 10.8 billion yen mainly due Net profit attributable to owners of parent increased by 11.4% Air Passenger Traffic Forecast Global passenger traffic to a rise in engine maintenance costs, and personnel costs rose to 150.8 billion yen, partly reflecting a decline in income taxes – Compound Annual Growth Rate 2018-2037 (Millions of passengers) by 11.8 billion yen due to an increase in headcount amid business deferred from 32.1 billion yen. RPK in Billions 4,500 2017 2037 4,000 3,500 JAL REPORT 2019 3,000 1,782 3,325 2,500 North America 2,000 Fiscal year 2018 Changes in operating profit 1,910 4,004 3.2% 1,500 Europe (Billions of yen) 3.8% 2,474 6,996 1,000 ASK y/y : +4.0% +1.5bn Asia-Pacific 500 RPK y/y : +4.7% (+0.9%) ESG Management 5.3% + stands for profit increase 736 2,371 0 The effect of the change of the settlement (revenue increase, cost decrease) (Year) 1995 1996 △ stands for profit decrease 1997 1998 1999 408 1,051 2000 2001 2002 Adjustment method are as follows: 2003 2004 2005 171 361 Middle East 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (revenue decrease, cost increase) 2011 ・International passenger: +6.2Bn 2012 2013 2014 Latin America 2015 7,737 18,587 2016 2017 Africa 6.0% 4.8% ・Domestic passenger: △6.2Bn 3.8% World Source: International Civil Aviation Organization (scheduled flights) Those are reflected in the figures below. 4.5% Other revenues Fuel Cargo and Source: Japan Aircraft Development Corporation Domestic mail +18.4 International passenger +7.9 △35.9 passenger +9.8 +5.9％ Maintenance +8.6％ △10.8 Aircraft Passenger Personnel +1.9％ △16.7％ △5.0 Service System JAL Group △17.5％ △4.7％ △11.8 Costs △9.0 Other Financial Data/ Corporate Information +67.7 △4.1％ expenses other revenues △128.6％ include △29.7 The JAL Group comprises Japan Airlines Co., Ltd. (JAL), 83 customers, backed by a firm commitment to operational safety. •Sales of travel Aircraft includes agency, etc. •Aircraft Depreciation △5.7％ subsidiaries and 58 affiliated companies. The operating revenue for the consolidated fiscal year increased +14.6％ •Aircraft Leases On April 28, 2017, the JAL Group released the JAL Group Medium 7.5% year over year to 1,487.2 billion yen, the operating expenses •Aircraft Insurance Premium, etc. Term Management Plan for Fiscal Years 2017-2020. To achieve the increased 8.5% year over year to 1,311.1 billion yen, the operating goals in the plan, the Group focused on instilling greater focus on profit increased 0.9% year over year to 176.1 billion yen and the Service costs △3.1 Expense of travel agency △2.7 profits among its staff through the JAL Philosophy and Divisioned ordinary profit increased 1.3% from the previous year to 165.3 174.5 Landing and navigation fees △2.8 176.1 profitability management system and worked to improve billion yen. Net profit attributable to owners of parent was 150.8 FSC* +28.9 FSC* +3.9 FSC* − Total FSC* +32.8 Sales commissions △0.9 Forex △1.2 Forex △0.2 Forex △0 Total forex △1.4 Other than those above △20.0 management efficiency to provide the highest level of service to billion yen, up 11.4% from the previous year. Total +27.7 Total +3.7 Total △0 Total +31.4 Total △29.7 FY2017 FY2018 Revenues +¥104.0 billion(+7.5%) Costs △¥102.4 billion(+8.5%) *FSC = Fuel Surcharge 84 85 EVALUATION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITIONS ② Domestic passenger operations Domestic passengers Operating revenue Operating profit 2. Segment Earnings FY2017 FY2018 YoY change (%) ■ RPK (million passenger kilometers) (left hand scale) (1) Air transportation segment ¥1,357.6 billion ¥162.3 billion Passenger revenues*1 (billion yen) 518.2 528.0 (534.3) +1.9 （＋3.1） ■ ASK (million seat kilometers) (left hand scale) Revenue Passenger-Load factor (%) (right hand scale) Passengers (1,000) 34,033 34,859 +2.4 40,000 80.0 The operating revenue increased 8.0% year over 36,116 Components of Revenues from the Air Transportation Segment (Millions of yen) ASK (million seat kilometers) 35,714 36,116 +1.1 35,000 year to 1,357.6 billion yen and the operating FY2017 FY2018 YoY change (%) RPK (million passenger kilometers) 25,643 26,195 +2.2 72.5 75.0 International operations 529,563 606,095 +14.5 L/F (%) 71.8% 72.5% ＋0.7pt 30,000 profit increased 0.7% year over year to 162.3 26,195 Passenger operations 462,919 530,679 +14.6 70.0 billion yen. Revenue per passenger*1,2 15,149 △0.5 25,000 15,227 Cargo operations 56,036 65,496 +16.9 (yen) (15,328) （＋0.7） * Figures for operating revenue and operating profit are 20.2 △0.2 20,000 65.0 Mail-service operations 9,858 9,123 △7.5 Yield*1,3 (yen) 20.2 before elimination of intra-segment transactions. (20.4) （＋0.9） Luggage operations 749 795 +6.2 15,000 14.6 ＋0.8 Message from the President 60.0 Unit revenue*1,4 (yen) 14.5 Domestic operations 544,706 553,799 +1.7 (14.8) （＋2.0） 10,000 Passenger operations 518,239 528,098 +1.9 55.0 *1 The effect of the change of the settlement adjustment method for 5,000 Cargo operations 22,444 21,853 △2.6 domestic sectors on international itineraries is excluded in the figures in Mail-service operations 3,718 3,547 △4.6 parentheses 0 50.0 *2 Revenue per passenger = Passenger revenues / Passengers 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) Luggage operations 304 301 △1.2 *3 Yield = Passenger revenues / RPK Total revenues from international and domestic operations 1,074,269 1,159,895 +8.0 *4 Unit revenue = Passenger revenues / ASK Other revenues 182,995 197,708 +8.0 Total revenues 1,257,265 1,357,603 +8.0 (2) Other Businesses ① International passenger operations Revenues of international routes by geographic segment In other businesses, JAL established JAL Agriport JALPAK CO.,Ltd. Business Activities and Strategy FY2017 FY2018 YoY change (%) ● Passenger revenues Co., Ltd. in April to operate a tourist farm near FY2017 FY2018 YoY change (%) （％） Passenger revenues*1 530.6 +14.6 Component Ratio Narita Airport to provide an entertaining activity Overseas travelers handled 462.9 23.1 22.2 △3.9 (billion yen) (524.4) （＋13.3） FY2018YoY (10,000 number of travelers) FY2017 FY2018 for international visitors, who are expected to Passengers (1,000) 8,585 9,128 +6.3 Domestic travelers handled America +13.4 26 26 254.5 271.8 +6.8 ASK (million seat kilometers) 51,836 54,925 +6.0 increase toward 2020. In addition, JAL Payment (10,000 number of travelers) Europe +12.8 16 16 RPK (million passenger kilometers) 42,013 44,659 +6.3 Port Co., Ltd. started a prepaid card business Operating Revenue (before elimination of Asia / Oceania +11.5 33 33 175.1 182.0 +4.0 consolidated transactions, billions of yen) L/F (%) 81.0% 81.3% ＋0.3pt China +24.4 11 11 JAL Global WALLET from November and will Revenue per passenger*1,2 Hawaii / Guam +19.2 14 14 JAL REPORT 2019 58,136 +7.8 provide new financial services such as exchanging 53,919 JAL Card Co.,Ltd (yen) (57,453) （＋6.6） Total +14.6 100 100 1 3 11.9 +7.8 currencies for international travelers. FY2017 FY2018 YoY change (%) Yield* , (yen) 11.0 (11.7) （＋6.6） ● ASK Results of JALPAK Co., Ltd. and JAL Card Co., Ltd. (Million seat kilometers) Memberships (10,000 number of members) 342.6 357.9 +4.5 9.7 +8.2 FY2017 FY2018 Component Ratio (%) Unit revenue*1,4 (yen) 8.9 are shown on the right. Operating Revenue (before elimination of (9.5) （＋6.9） 18.3 19.4 +6.1 America 14,971 15,581 +4.1 consolidated transactions, billions of yen) ESG Management *1 The effect of the change of the settlement adjustment method for Europe 7,962 7,790 △2.2 domestic sectors on international itineraries is excluded in the figures in Asia / Oceania 18,042 19,322 +7.1 parentheses *2 Revenue per passenger = Passenger revenues / Passengers China 3,292 3,422 +4.0 *3 Yield = Passenger revenues / RPK Hawaii / Guam 7,569 8,808 +16.4 *4 Unit revenue = Passenger revenues / ASK Total 51,836 54,925 +6.0 ● RPK (Million passenger kilometers) FY2017 FY2018 Component Ratio (%) International passengers America 11,735 12,714 +8.3 ■ RPK (million passenger kilometers) (left hand scale) Europe 6,571 6,580 +0.1 Financial Data/ Corporate Information ■ ASK (million seat kilometers) (left hand scale) Asia / Oceania 14,936 15,661 +4.9 Revenue Passenger-Load factor (%) (right hand scale) China 2,610 2,870 +10.0 60,000 90.0 Hawaii / Guam 6,158 6,831 +10.9 54,925 Total 42,013 44,659 +6.3 50,000 85.0 44,659 ● Revenue passengers carried (1000.0) 40,000 80.0 FY2017 FY2018 Component Ratio (%) 81.3 America 1,230 1,332 +8.4 30,000 75.0 Europe 733 734 +0.1 Asia / Oceania 4,146 4,270 +3.0 20,000 70.0 China 1,409 1,554 +10.3 Hawaii / Guam 1,066 1,236 +15.9 10,000 65.0 Total 8,585 9,128 +6.3 0 60.0 ● Load Factor (%) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) FY2017 FY2018 Component Ratio (pt) America 78.4 81.6 +3.2 Europe 82.5 84.5 +1.9 Asia / Oceania 82.8 81.1 △1.7 China 79.3 83.9 +4.6 Hawaii / Guam 81.4 77.6 △3.8 Total 81.0 81.3 +0.3 86 87 EVALUATION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITIONS Operating expenses Capital investment 3. Analysis of Factors Affecting Operating Expenses 6. Capital Investment and Aircraft Procurement ¥1,311.1 billion ¥ 223.4 billion Major Operating Expense Items (Billions of yen) profitability management system and the total operating expenses Capital investment during the fiscal year Fiscal 2018 Fleet FY2017 FY2018 YoY YoY(%) increased by 8.5% year over year to 1,311.1 billion yen. 2018 totaled 223.4 billion yen (including As of end of FY2017 As of end of FY2018 Fuel 215.2 251.2 +35.9 +16.7 (March 31, 2018) (March 31, 2019) Diff. (1) Fuel costs expenditure for intangible fixed assets). Landing and navigation fees 83.5 86.3 +2.8 +3.4 Owned Leased Total Owned Leased Total Fuel costs increased by 35.9 billion yen year on year due to higher In the air transportation segment, Maintenance 62.0 72.9 +10.8 +17.5 Large-sized Boeing 777-200 12 0 12 12 0 12 — Sales commissions prices, foreign exchange rates and other factors. The Group’s investment is made for aircraft to 17.9 18.9 +0.9 +5.5 Boeing 777-200ER 11 0 11 11 0 11 — (Air Transport) fuel consumption is rising due to capacity expansion, but it improve operating efficiency. It also Boeing 777-300 4 0 4 4 0 4 — Aircraft *1 Message from the President 107.1 112.2 +5.0 +4.7 continues to take steps to limit the rise of fuel usage through includes intangible fixed assets such as Boeing 777-300ER 13 0 13 13 0 13 — Service *2 42.2 45.3 +3.1 +7.5 actively introducing fuel-efficient aircraft and efficient operational measures to improve the Group’s ability Large-sized subtotal 40 0 40 40 0 40 — Personnel 290.3 302.1 +11.8 +4.1 Expenses of travel agency 83.8 86.6 +2.7 +3.3 practices. to respond to diversifying customer MediumBoeing 787-8 25 0 25 25 0 25 — sized Other 306.1 335.2 +29.0 +9.5 (2) Unit cost*3 needs and systems to increase efficiency Boeing 787-9 10 1 11 14 3 17 +6 Total operating expenses 1,208.6 1,311.1 +102.4 +8.5 Unit Cost will rise temporarily in fiscal year 2019 due to upfront and enhance passenger convenience. Boeing 767-300 6 0 6 6 0 6 — *1 Aircraft= Aircraft Depreciation+ Aircraft Leases+ Aviation Insurance Premium, etc. costs for capacity expansion in fiscal year 2020. However, we plan In fiscal year 2018, capital investment Boeing 767-300ER 28 1 29 29 0 29 — *2 Services= Expenses regarding inflight services, airport lounges, cargo equipment, etc. to reduce Unit Cost by improving productivity in fiscal year 2020. totaled 221.7 billion yen. Capital Medium-sized subtotal 69 2 71 74 3 77 +6 Fuel costs increased by 35.9 billion yen due to higher fuel prices investment was mainly used to purchase Small-sized Boeing 737-400 8 0 8 3 0 3 △5 (yen) Boeing 737-800 34 23 57 42 20 62 +5 in the market. Maintenance costs rose by 10.8 billion yen due to 17 new aircraft (six Boeing 787-9, five 10.4 10.5 Small-sized subtotal 42 23 65 45 20 65 — higher engine maintenance costs. Personnel costs increased by 11.8 Boeing 737-800, two Embraer 190, one Business Activities and Strategy Regional EMBRAER 170 17 0 17 18 0 18 +1 billion yen due to an increase in headcount in accordance with FY2018 FY2019Plan FY2020 Embraer 170, one ATR72-600 and two EMBRAER 190 12 0 12 14 0 14 +2 the capacity growth and profit-linked bonus payments. However, *3 Unit Cost=Air Transportation Segment Operating Expense(excluding fuel, ATR42-600), purchase leased aircraft and Bombardier DHC8-Q400 5 1 6 1 0 1 △5 and before the depreciation method change reflected )/ASK the Group continued its cost reduction efforts using its Divisioned make advance payments for aircraft. Bombardier DHC8-Q400CC 5 0 5 5 0 5 — Two of the six new Boeing 787-9 and SAAB 340B 10 0 10 8 0 8 △2 one of the two new ATR42-600 were Bombardier DHC8-Q300 1 0 1 0 0 0 △1 Net profit attributable to owners of parent ATR42-600 4 0 4 5 1 6 +2 converted to operating lease aircraft in 4. Net Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent 150.8 ATR72-600 0 0 0 1 0 1 +1 JAL REPORT 2019 ¥ billion fiscal year 2018. Regional Total 54 1 55 52 1 53 △2 Total 205 26 231 211 24 235 +4 Ordinary income increased by 1.3% year over year to 165.3 billion Net profit attributable to owners of parent rose by 11.4% to 150.8 yen. Expense of loss on sales and disposal of flight equipment billion yen, mainly due to a decline in income taxes – deferred ESG Management increased, however, non-operating expenses decreased due to from 32.1 billion yen. foreign exchange loss of 2.4 billion yen in the previous fiscal year. Cash flow from operating activities Cash flow from investing activities Cash flow from financing activities Shareholders’ equity Equity ratio 5. Cash Flows 7. Financial Position ¥296.7 billion △¥ 186.3 billion △¥ 37.0 billion 1,165.1 ¥ billion 57.4 % The JAL Group primarily uses cash flow for investments that Cash Flow from Financing Activities The assets at the fiscal year-end increased by 176.3 billion yen Consolidated financial position (Billions of yen) Financial Data/ Corporate Information increase corporate value, shareholder returns and maintenance of Cash flow from financing activities (outflow) declined by 18.8 from the end of the previous fiscal year to 2,030.3 billion yen, End of FY End of FY YoY 2017 2018 a firm financial structure. The Group conducts capital investments billion yen year on year to 37.0 billion yen due to payment of mainly due to procurement of aircraft and advance aircraft 1 Total assets* 1,853.9 2,030.3 +176.3 in accordance with strict investment discipline and aims to dividends, share repurchases and issuance of bonds. payments. Cash and deposits*2 448.8 522.0 +73.2 maximize free cash flow through securing an appropriate level of The liabilities increased by 70.3 billion yen from the end of the Interest-bearing debt*3 125.7 142.3 +16.5 investment return. previous fiscal year to 830.1 billion yen due to increase advances Future rental expenses under operating leases 67.4 81.1 +13.7 Cash flows (Billions of yen) received and bonds payable. Shareholdersʼ equity 1,060.3 1,165.1 +104.7 Cash Flow from Operating Activities FY2017 FY2018 YoY The net assets increased by 106.0 billion yen from the end of Shareholdersʼ equity ratio (%) 57.2% 57.4% +0.2pt As a result of adjusting net profit before income tax deferred Cash flow from operating activities 281.5 296.7 +15.1 the previous fiscal year to 1,200.1 billion yen, as a result of D/E ratio (%)*4 0.1x 0.1x +0.0x Depreciation and amortization 110.8 124.1 +13.2 etc. of 156.2 billion yen with non-cash items, such as depreciation paying dividends and acquiring own shares, and also net profit ROIC(%) *5 10.1% 9.5% △0.6pt Cash flow from investing activities*1 △180.1 △186.3 △6.2 costs, and net defined benefit liabilities and debts and credits in Investments*2 △211.9 △226.2 △14.3 attributable to owners of parent in the current fiscal year and an ROE(%) *6 13.3% 13.6% +0.2pt operating activities, cash flow from operating activities (inflow) Free cash flow*3 101.3 110.3 +8.9 increase in accumulated other comprehensive income. ROA(%) *7 9.7% 9.1% △0.7pt increased by 15.1 billion yen year on year to 296.7 billion yen. Cash flow from financing activities △55.8 △37.0 +18.8 As a result of the above, shareholders’ equity ended at 1,165.1 Total cash flow*4 45.5 73.2 +27.7 billion yen, and the equity ratio rose by 0.2 percentage points *1 Total Assets amount as of the end of March, 2018 has been changed EBITDA 285.4 300.2 +14.8 due to the revision of the accounting standards and other regulations Cash Flow from Investing Activities from the end of the previous fiscal year to 57.4%. regarding indication of deferred tax assets and liabilities from FY2018 (It EBITDAR 305.4 320.1 +14.7 Excluding deposits and withdrawals from fixed deposit accounts, was 1,854.2Bn when disclosed on April 27, 2018) *1 Excluding deposits and withdrawals from deposit accounts *2 Certificate of Deposits etc. included cash flow from investing activities (outflow) increased by *2 Investment, capital contribution or etc. *3 Accounts Payable-installment Purchase included *3 Cash Flow from Operating Activities + Cash Flow from Investing Activities *4 On-balance sheet Interest-bearing Debt / Shareholders' Equity 6.2 billion yen year on year to 186.3 billion yen, mainly for *5 NOPAT/Average Fixed Asset (incl. Future Rental Expenses under Operating *4 Cash flow from Operating Activities + Cash Flow from Investing Activities expenditures for acquiring fixed assets. + Cash Flow from Financing Activities Leases) at beginning and end of a fiscal year *6 (Net profit attributable to owners of parent) / (Average of shareholder’s equity at beginning and end of a fiscal year) *7 (Operating profit ) / (Average of total assets at beginning and end of a fiscal year) 88 89 EVALUATION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITIONS 8. Credit Ratings 10. Retirement Benefit Obligations JAL’s current credit ratings are shown in the (as of May 2019) The Company and its major consolidated subsidiaries have Certain overseas subsidiaries have defined-benefit retirement table on the right. Rating & Investment Information, Inc. (R&I) Issuer rating A– (positive) established defined-benefit retirement plans such as corporate plans. Japan Credit Rating Agency, Ltd. (JCR) Long-term issuer rating A (stable) pension plans and lump-sum retirement plans, as well as defined The Japan Airlines Welfare Pension Fund also introduces an contribution pension plans. When employees retire, and on option similar to a cash-balance plan as well as other alternatives. other occasions, the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries The JAL Group Pension Fund, which is used by some domestic may also provide premium severance packages, which are not consolidated subsidiaries, uses a cash balance pension plan. Message from the President included in calculations of the actuarial difference for retirement Simplified accounting methods are used to calculate retirement 9. Fuel and Exchange Rate Hedging benefit obligations in retirement benefit accounting. As of March benefit liabilities, assets and expenses for defined-benefit 31, 2019, the Company and 39 consolidated subsidiaries had corporate pension plans and lump-sum retirement plans at some (1) Hedging Policy Fuel cost hedging by fiscal year (as of end-fiscal year 2018) lump-sum retirement plans. The Group also had three corporate consolidated subsidiaries. On international routes, fuel surcharges allow the Company to ■ Fuel pension funds, including the Japan Airlines Welfare Pension Fund. 60 offset some of its fuel costs. As a result, the Company uses fuel （％） ■ Forex Approx. Approx. hedging for fuel used on domestic routes, which is equivalent 40% 40% 40 to approximately 40% of all fuel consumed by the Group’s air transport operations. In addition, the Company’s foreign currency 20 revenues are roughly the same as its foreign currency expenses, 11. Distribution of Profits to Shareholders Business Activities and Strategy Approx. Approx. 10% 10% Approx. Approx. excluding fuel costs. Consequently, the Company uses fuel and 5% 5% exchange rate hedging only for fuel costs. 0 2019 2020 2021 (FY) The company regards shareholder returns as one of our most The Company’s policy is to pay dividends from capital surplus Fuel hedging Forex hedging （*1） Profit Impact by Fuel and FX Markets in fiscal year 2019 important management matters. Our fundamental policy is to twice a year through an interim dividend and a year-end dividend. Fuel use Foreign currency Foreign currency (including hedging and fuel surcharge) actively implement shareholder returns through continuous and The Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders approves the yearrevenues expenses stable dividends and flexible share repurchases, while securing end dividend and the Board of Directors approves the interim Singapore Kerosene JAL REPORT 2019 Non-fuel internal reserves for making investments for corporate growth dividend. The Articles of Incorporation state that the Company (USD/bbl) US$75 US$80 US$90 US$95 International FSC* costs FX Rate(JPY/USD) in the future and changing business environments and to build a may pay an interim dividend after approval by the Board of routes revenue （Forecast） strong financial structure. Directors, based on a record date of September 30. 60% received JPY 115 +3.0bn +5.0bn △6.5bn 0.0bn In order to maintain a stable dividend level despite the upcoming The company will continuously strive to increase capital efficiency JPY 110 +9.0bn +5.5bn +1.5bn +1.0bn Fuel costs effective tax rate increase, the company will decide the and maintain stable shareholder return. ESG Management Domestic JPY 105 +10.0bn +12.5bn +9.0bn +2.5bn routes Hedged dividend per share level, considering its continuity, stability and *1 Forecast on April 26,2019 40% predictability with reference to a payout ratio of approximately The fuel surcharge applicable from April to July 2019 has been already determined as below: 35%. In principle, income tax deferred is no longer excluded Total Shareholder Return History (FY2012-2019) The Company is exposed to fuel The Company is exposed to forex *April-May: Japan outbound/ Zone JPY7,000, others excluding Japan cost risks on domestic routes, which risks related to fuel costs, as foreign outbound/ Zone USD70 from fiscal year 2019. In addition, the company will proactively (Billions of yen) （％） do not have the FSC* currency expenses excluding fuel June-July: Japan outbound/ Zone JPY8,000, others excluding Japan 250.0 60 costs are largely offset by foreign and flexibly consider share repurchases, considering its financial outbound/ Zone USD70 currency revenues With the fuel surcharges above, the recent fuel prices and the exchange position and other factors. As a result, the company seeks to 49.2 rates from April to May, the impact on profit will be approximately negative 200.0 47.7 50 7.0 billion yen (not included in the profit impact matrix chart above) achieve a total payout ratio, which combines the total dividends 174.4 44.5 171.6 166.2 164.1 paid out and the total amounts of the share repurchases, of Financial Data/ Corporate Information 149.0 150.8 150.0 135.4 40 an approximately 35% to 50% range through appropriately Will be determined 114.0 sharing periodic profits and allocating capitals among all of its 33.7 100.0 32.3 30 (2) Overcome Market Risks Cumulative impact of price fluctuations in fiscal 2016–2018 stakeholders. 25.1 25.0 25.1 29.4 At the same time, the company continuously strives to improve 20.0 The impact of volatility in fuel prices is mitigated by hedging 18.9 Fuel prices / forex 50.0 30.0 20.0 20.0 20 and fuel surcharges, however there is some time lag of their capital efficiency through monitoring a total return on equity 32.3 37.7 43.5 33.2 38.7 38.3 38.3 29.0 effects in each year. However, over a medium-term timeframe, ratio, which is calculated by dividing the sum of total dividends 0.0 10 FSC* / hedging 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) the Company has been largely successful in mitigating the risk of paid out and share repurchases by shareholders’ equity. The (Forecast) fluctuations in fuel prices. Based on cumulative changes in prices Impact company makes its efforts to maintain this ratio at approximately Net Profit Attributable to owners of the parent Total Dividends for the last three fiscal years, the Company has offset the impact 3% or above. Share Repurchase Payout Ratio*1 Total Return Ratio*2 0 Profit fluctuation of those changes through hedging and fuel surcharges. Based on this policy, the company plans to pay a year-end *1 Dividend payout ratio=Total dividends/Net profit attributable to owners *FSC = fuel surcharge of parent* dividend of 55 yen per share for fiscal year 2018. The annual *2 Total return ratio=（Total amount of dividend + Amount of share dividend is 110 yen per share, including the interim dividend of repurchase）/Net profit attributable to owners of parent* *FY2013～2018 net profit attributable to owners of parent excludes effects 55 yen per share. The dividend forecast in the fiscal year ending of deferred income tax March 31, 2020 is 110 yen per share, with the estimated interim dividend of 55 yen. 90 91 EVALUATION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITIONS (4) Risks concerning disasters In addition, amid growing pressure on companies in recent years The majority of the JAL Group’s passengers use aircraft departing to fulfill their corporate social responsibility to the environment, 12.Business Risks from or arriving at Haneda and Narita airports. Consequently, such as preventing global warming, the JAL Group is facing these airports play a vital role in the JAL Group’s air transportation tighter restrictions on CO2 emissions, noise pollution, harmful business. In addition, the Group’s Information System Center, substances, and other environment issues. A further tightening The JAL Group has identified a number of risks that could have a (2) Risks concerning introduction of aircraft which plays an important role in managing the Group’s flights, of environmental regulations that leads to a higher cost burden material impact on investment decisions. The list is not exhaustive In the air transportation business, the JAL Group places orders reservations and other services, and the Integrated Operations through emission charging mechanisms or other schemes, such and the JAL Group may be affected by unforeseen risks not for aircraft with the Boeing Company, Airbus SAS, Embraer SA, Control, which is tasked with controlling the operation and as a new greenhouse gas trading system to be implemented described below. This report also contains forward-looking ATR, and Mitsubishi Aircraft Corporation to increase efficiency scheduling of the Group’s fleet worldwide, are both located in from fiscal 2020 at earliest, could have an impact on the Group’s statements based on information available to the Company as by switching to more fuel-efficient aircraft and reducing aircraft the Tokyo area. Consequently, a major earthquake or volcanic operating performance. Message from the President of March 31, 2019. The JAL Group is exposed to the following types eruption in the Tokyo area could lead to the protracted closure ② Litigation risk principal risks due to the nature of its business activities, centered in the fleet. However, the delivery of new aircraft may be of Haneda or Narita airports, while a fire, terrorist attack or other The JAL Group’s business activities are exposed to the risk on the scheduled air transportation business and unscheduled air delayed due to technical, financial, and other reasons at aircraft incident at these key facilities could lead to a prolonged outage of various types of litigation, which could affect the Group’s transportation business. manufacturers, which could force adjustments to fleet plans that of the Group’s information systems and operational capabilities, operations and operating performance. In the event that litigation affect the Group’s operations over the medium and long term. which would have a severe impact on the Group’s operations. To is filed against the Group, developments in the subsequent legal (1) Risks concerning the external management environment such mitigate the risk of a shutdown at the Operation Control Center case may require additional costs and the booking of provisions, as international affairs and economic trends (3) Risks concerning changes in market environments in Tokyo, the Group transferred some functions to the Operation which could also affect the Group’s operating performance. １ Operating environment １ Fuel price volatility risk Control Center at Osaka International Airport in April 2018 and The JAL Group’s air transportation business operates in Japan Fluctuations in fuel prices have a significant impact on the started 24-hour operations. (7) Risks concerning handling of IT (information system) and and markets worldwide. Demand for air travel may be affected JAL Group’s operating performance. The Group charges a fuel *The name of ‘the Operation Control Center’ was changed to ‘the customer information Business Activities and Strategy Integrated Operations Control’ due to reorganization on April 1, 2019. by trends in the global economy, natural disasters and adverse surcharge to partly cover the impact of higher fuel prices. The JAL Group’s operations are dependent on a large number weather conditions, terrorist attacks, regional conflicts, war, the However, changes in fuel prices are not immediately reflected (5) Risks concerning air safety of IT systems. Failures in these IT systems caused by flaws in outbreak and spread of infectious diseases, and other events. in the fuel surcharge and it is inappropriate to ask customers to The JAL Group implements a wide range of measures on a daily computer programs, computer viruses, and other cyber-attacks In addition, the JAL Group’s services are partly dependent on cover the entire increase in fuel prices. The Group also uses crude basis to ensure the safe operation of its flights. However, a single may lead to the loss of critical data, as well as issues in flight maintenance companies, airport personnel, sky marshals, fuel oil hedging transactions to mitigate the risk of fuel price volatility. fatal accident has the potential to undermine customer trust operations, which could affect the Group’s operations. Largesuppliers, luggage handling companies, security companies, However, a sudden and steep drop in oil prices may not contribute in the Group’s flight safety and lead to a loss of public support. scale failures in power systems, communication networks, and JAL REPORT 2019 and other third parties, which could affect the Group’s business to an improvement in the Group’s operating performance, as the The Group must also provide compensation for any passenger other infrastructure that support IT systems could also result operations. benefits of the decline would not be reflected in business results fatalities or injuries in the event of an accident, which could in significant disruption to the Group’s operations. In addition, ② Competitive environment immediately due to hedge contract positions and other factors. have a severe impact on the Group’s operating performance. inadequate handling of customers’ personal information by The Group faces severe competition in Japan and overseas in ② Exchange rate volatility risk In addition, safety issues related to the JAL Group, the same the Group or unauthorized access that results in the disclosure areas such as routes, services, and pricing. On domestic routes, The JAL Group operates in countries other than Japan. As a result, aircraft type operated by the Group or codeshare flights could of such information could damage public trust in the Group’s ESG Management the Group competes with other major Japanese airlines, new lowsome of its revenues and expenses are denominated in foreign undermine customer trust in the Group’s flight safety and lead to business, systems and corporate brand and undermine customer cost airlines, and bullet train services. On international routes, currencies. In particular, the price of aviation fuel, one of the a loss of public support, which could affect the Group’s operating and market trust in the JAL Group, which could affect the Group’s the Group competes with major domestic and international Group’s main costs, is largely linked to the US dollar. Fluctuations performance. To limit the impact of legal damages related to air financial position and operating performance. airlines, and competition is intensifying on both domestic and in US dollar exchange rates therefore have a greater impact on accidents and to ensure those affected by any accident receive international routes. Alliances, codeshare agreements, and the Group’s expenses than on its revenues. To mitigate the impact sufficient compensation, the Group has purchased liability (8) Risks concerning human resources and industrial affairs reciprocal air frequent flyer programs between overseas and of exchange rate volatility on profits, the JAL Group uses foreign insurance that provides an internationally recognized level of The JAL Group’s business is dependent on securing personnel who Japanese airlines are contributing to the challenging environment currency revenues to offset foreign currency expenses and foreign compensation and coverage. have national certificates and other legally required qualifications on international routes. Significant deterioration in this currency hedging transactions. The price of new aircraft is also related to the operation of aircraft. However, due to the Financial Data/ Corporate Information competitive climate and operating environment could affect the closely linked to the US dollar, which means the Group is also (6) Risks concerning legal regulations and litigations considerable amount of time required by employees to acquire Group’s operations. exposed to the risk of exchange rate fluctuations when recording The Group’s operations are subject to various international these qualifications and skills during the course of their duties, the The JAL Group has partnerships with global partner airlines in the value of assets and depreciation costs related to aircraft. To legal restrictions and national and local government laws and JAL Group may not be able to secure sufficient personnel when various forms such as joint business, alliance, codeshare, frequent mitigate this risk, the Group uses hedging transactions to diversify regulations. Revisions to these laws and regulations may result in required, which could affect the Group’s business operations. In flyer program, and so forth. The JAL Group’s alliance strategy may opportunities for foreign currency exchange. even tighter restrictions on the Group’s operations, which could addition, many of the Group’s employees are members of labor be affected by changes in operating conditions at other partner ③ Capital and financial market risk lead to a significant increase in costs. unions. A collective strike by Group employees or other labor airlines including oneworld members or joint business partners, The JAL Group needs to make significant capital investments, １ Regulatory risk disputes could affect the Group’s aircraft operations. and by changes in the oneworld alliance membership or major such as procuring new aircraft. To meet funding needs for The JAL Group conducts its operations in accordance with various developments in the Group’s alliance relationships. these investments, the Group may procure funds from financial rules and regulations, such as Japan’s Civil Aeronautics Act and institutions or capital markets. The Group’s ability to secure other regulations governing airline businesses, bilateral aviation funds and its funding costs are affected by trends in capital and agreements and other international arrangements, Japan’s financial markets, and by changes in its credit rating, which may Antimonopoly Act and other similar antitrust laws overseas, and limit the Group’s access to funds and lead to higher funding costs. rules on taxes and public dues such as landing fees. Revisions to these rules and regulations or notifications of legally enforceable airworthiness directives could have an impact on the Group’s operating performance. Moreover, the allocation of flight slots at Haneda and Narita airports and the timing of the launch of new routes could also affect the Group’s operating performance. 92 93 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS As of March 31 2019 Millions of yen 2018 Thousands of U.S. dollars (Note 4) 2019 LIABILITIES (1) Consolidated Balance Sheets Current liabilities: Japan Airlines Co., Ltd. and Consolidated Subsidiaries Operating accounts payable (Note 7) ¥ 185,650 ¥ 177,937 $ 1,672,673 Short-term loans payable (Notes 7 and 10) 65 3,150 585 Thousands of U.S. Current portion of long-term loans payable (Notes 7 and 10) 13,287 14,555 119,713 Millions of yen dollars (Note 4) Lease obligations (Notes 7 and 10) 2,461 2,389 22,173 As of March 31 2019 2018 2019 Message from the President Accounts payable—installment purchase (Notes 7 and 10) 190 185 1,711 Assets Income taxes payable 21,738 14,074 195,855 Current assets: Advances received 129,108 107,506 1,163,239 Asset retirement obligations (Note 19) ― 393 ― Cash and deposits (Notes 5, 7 and 10) ¥ 462,064 ¥ 417,842 $ 4,163,113 Other 101,896 76,653 918,064 Notes and operating accounts receivable (Note 7) 153,112 151,262 1,379,511 Total current liabilities 454,399 396,846 4,094,053 Securities (Notes 5, 7 and 8) 60,000 30,999 540,589 Non-current liabilities: Flight equipment spare parts and supplies 21,929 21,996 197,576 Bonds payable (Notes 7 and 10) 50,000 20,000 450,491 Business Activities and Strategy Other 65,095 58,924 586,494 Long-term loans payable (Notes 7 and 10) 73,524 80,696 662,438 Allowance for doubtful accounts (661) (533) (5,955) Lease obligations (Notes 7 and 10) 2,504 4,319 22,560 Long-term accounts payable—installment purchase (Notes 7 and 10) 312 480 2,811 Total current assets 761,539 680,492 6,861,329 Deferred tax liabilities (Note 12) 169 227 1,522 Reserve for loss on antitrust litigation 5,936 5,931 53,482 Net defined benefit liability (Note 11) 212,672 230,084 1,916,136 JAL REPORT 2019 Asset retirement obligations (Note 19) 8,657 3,595 77,998 Non-current assets: Other 22,015 17,687 198,351 Investment securities (Notes 6, 7, 8 and 10) 101,289 90,757 912,595 Total non-current liabilities 375,793 363,023 3,385,827 Total liabilities 830,192 759,869 7,479,881 ESG Management Contingent liabilities (Note 17) Tangible fixed assets, net: Flight equipment (Notes 10 and 16) 733,961 704,134 6,612,857 NET ASSETS (Note 13) Ground property and equipment (Note 16) 53,478 52,728 481,827 Shareholdersʼ equity: Common stock: Advances on flight equipment and other purchases 141,776 123,902 1,277,376 Financial Data/ Corporate Information Authorized: 700,000,000 shares in 2019 and 2018 Total tangible fixed assets 929,216 880,765 8,372,069 Issued: 349,028,700 shares in 2019 181,352 181,352 1,633,949 and 353,715,800 shares in 2018 Capital surplus 183,050 183,049 1,649,247 Retained earnings 822,554 731,106 7,411,064 Treasury shares, at cost: (535) (10,535) (4,820) 201,957 shares in 2019 and 2,555,957 shares in 2018 Total shareholdersʼ equity 1,186,421 1,084,972 10,689,440 Software 92,076 95,551 829,588 Long-term loans receivable (Note 10) 7,240 7,715 65,231 Accumulated other comprehensive income: Deferred tax assets (Note 12) 96,625 66,036 870,573 Valuation difference on available-for-sale securities (Note 8) 20,371 16,469 183,539 Deferred gains on hedges (Note 9) 1,837 6,360 16,551 Net defined benefit asset (Note 11) 2,486 2,119 22,398 Foreign currency translation adjustment 99 (30) 891 Other 40,129 30,891 361,555 Remeasurements of defined benefit plans (Note 11) (43,596) (47,436) (392,792) Allowance for doubtful accounts (275) (334) (2,477) Total accumulated other comprehensive income (21,287) (24,637) (191,792) Non-controlling interests 35,001 33,792 315,352 Total non-current assets 1,268,788 1,173,504 11,431,552 Total net assets 1,200,135 1,094,127 10,813,001 Total assets ¥ 2,030,328 ¥ 1,853,997 $ 18,292,891 Total liabilities and net assets ¥ 2,030,328 ¥ 1,853,997 $ 18,292,891 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 94 95 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (2) Consolidated Statement of Income and Comprehensive Income (3) Consolidated Statements of Changes in Net Assets Japan Airlines Co., Ltd. and Consolidated Subsidiaries Japan Airlines Co., Ltd. and Consolidated Subsidiaries Millions of Yen Thousands of U.S. Shareholders' equity Millions of yen dollars (Note 4) Common stock Capital surplus Retained earnings Treasury shares Total shareholders' equity Years ended March 31 2019 2018 2019 Balance at April 1, 2017 ¥ 181,352 ¥ 183,047 ¥ 647,701 ¥ (531) ¥ 1,011,569 Operating revenue: Changes of items during period Passenger: Dividends of surplus (51,790) (51,790) Domestic ¥ 528,098 ¥ 518,239 $ 4,758,068 Profit attributable to owners of parent 135,406 135,406 International 530,679 462,919 4,781,322 Purchase of treasury shares (9,999) (9,999) Incidental and other revenue 428,483 402,099 3,860,555 Message from the President Change of scope of consolidation, etc. 2 (211) (3) (213) Total operating revenue 1,487,261 1,383,257 13,399,954 Net changes of items other than shareholders' equity Operating expenses: Total changes of items during period － 2 83,405 (10,003) 73,403 Wages, salaries and benefit 302,156 290,354 2,722,371 Balance at March 31, 2018 ¥ 181,352 ¥ 183,049 ¥ 731,106 ¥ (10,535) ¥ 1,084,972 Aircraft fuel 251,223 215,270 2,263,474 Landing fees and other rent 86,383 83,552 778,295 Aircraft maintenance 72,926 62,084 657,050 Accumulated other comprehensive income NonValuation difference Deferred Foreign currency Remeasurements Total accumulated controlling Total net assets Aircraft rent 19,918 19,996 179,457 on available-forgains(losses) on translation of defined benefit other comprehensive Depreciation and amortization 124,104 110,860 1,118,154 interests sale securities hedges adjustment plans income Other 454,389 426,571 4,093,963 Balance at April 1, 2017 ¥ 13,828 ¥ (667) ¥ 232 ¥ (52,898) ¥ (39,504) ¥ 31,328 ¥ 1,003,393 Business Activities and Strategy Total operating expenses 1,311,101 1,208,691 11,812,784 Changes of items during period Operating profit 176,160 174,565 1,587,170 Dividends of surplus (51,790) Profit attributable to owners of parent 135,406 Non-operating income (expenses): Purchase of treasury shares (9,999) Interest income 1,068 816 9,622 Dividend income 1,376 1,446 12,397 Change of scope of consolidation, etc. (213) Interest expenses (803) (798) (7,234) Net changes of items other 2,640 7,027 (262) 5,461 14,867 2,463 17,331 than shareholders' equity Gain on sales of flight equipment 1,494 1,761 13,460 JAL REPORT 2019 Total changes of items during period 2,640 7,027 (262) 5,461 14,867 2,463 90,734 Loss on sales and disposal of flight equipment (14,474) (11,964) (130,408) Loss on sales and disposal of supplies (845) (1,737) (7,613) Balance at March 31, 2018 ¥ 16,469 ¥ 6,360 ¥ (30) ¥ (47,436) ¥ (24,637) ¥ 33,792 ¥ 1,094,127 Share of profit of entities accounted for using equity method 1,317 2,521 11,865 Millions of Yen Foreign exchange losses (486) (2,495) (4,378) Shareholders' equity Gain on sales of investments in securities 103 829 928 ESG Management Compensation income 393 267 3,540 Common stock Capital surplus Retained earnings Treasury shares Total shareholders' equity Subsidy income for aircraft purchase 2,548 5,477 22,957 Balance at April 1, 2018 ¥ 181,352 ¥ 183,049 ¥ 731,106 ¥ (10,535) ¥ 1,084,972 Loss on reduction of aircraft (2,548) (5,475) (22,957) Changes of items during period Impairment loss (Note 15) (7,898) (1,209) (71,159) Dividends of surplus (39,377) (39,377) Other (1,165) (1,523) (10,496) Profit attributable to owners of parent 150,807 150,807 Total non-operating income (expenses) (19,920) (12,084) (179,475) Purchase of treasury shares (9,999) (9,999) Profit before income taxes 156,240 162,480 1,407,694 Retirement of treasury shares (19,999) 19,999 − Change of scope of consolidation, etc. 0 17 18 Income taxes—current (Note 12) 33,223 24,974 299,333 Financial Data/ Corporate Information Net changes of items other Income taxes—deferred (Note 12) (32,127) (3,488) (289,458) than shareholders' equity Total income taxes 1,096 21,485 9,874 Total changes of items during period − 0 91,447 9,999 101,448 Profit 155,144 140,995 1,397,819 Balance at March 31, 2019 ¥ 181,352 ¥ 183,050 ¥ 822,554 ¥ (535) ¥ 1,186,421 Profit attributable to: Owners of parent 150,807 135,406 1,358,744 Accumulated other comprehensive income Non-controlling interests 4,337 5,588 39,075 Valuation difference Deferred Foreign currency Remeasurements Total accumulated Non-controlling Total net assets on available-forgains(losses) on translation of defined other comprehensive interests sale securities hedges adjustment benefit plans income Other comprehensive income (Note 14): Balance at April 1, 2018 ¥ 16,469 ¥ 6,360 ¥ (30) ¥ (47,436) ¥ (24,637) ¥ 33,792 ¥ 1,094,127 Valuation difference on available-for-sale securities 3,868 2,590 34,849 Changes of items during period Deferred gains (losses) on hedges (4,505) 6,969 (40,589) Dividends of surplus (39,377) Foreign currency translation adjustment 25 (296) 225 Profit attributable to owners of parent 150,807 Remeasurements of defined benefit plans, net of tax 3,845 5,481 34,642 Share of other comprehensive income of entities accounted for using equity method 71 70 639 Purchase of treasury shares (9,999) Total other comprehensive income 3,305 14,814 29,777 Retirement of treasury shares ー Comprehensive income 158,449 155,809 1,427,597 Change of scope of consolidation, etc. 18 Net changes of items other 3,902 (4,522) 130 3,839 3,349 1,209 4,559 Comprehensive income attributable to: than shareholders' equity Owners of parent 154,156 150,274 1,388,917 Total changes of items during period 3,902 (4,522) 130 3,839 3,349 1,209 106,007 Non-controlling interests ¥ 4,292 ¥ 5,535 $ 38,670 Balance at March 31, 2019 ¥ 20,371 ¥ 1,837 ¥ 99 ¥ (43,596) ¥ (21,287) ¥ 35,001 ¥ 1,200,135 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 96 97 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (4) Consolidated Statement of Cash flows Japan Airlines Co., Ltd. and Consolidated Subsidiaries Thousands of U.S. dollars (Note 4) Shareholdersʼ equity Thousands of U.S. Millions of yen Common stock Capital surplus Retained earnings Treasury shares Total shareholdersʼ equity dollars (Note 4) Balance at April 1, 2018 $ 1,633,949 $ 1,649,238 $ 6,587,133 $ (94,918) $ 9,775,403 Years ended March 31 2019 2018 2019 Changes of items during period Cash flows from operating activities Dividends of surplus (354,779) (354,779) Profit before income taxes ¥ 156,240 ¥ 162,480 $ 1,407,694 Profit attributable to owners of parent 1,358,744 1,358,744 Adjustments to reconcile profit before income taxes to net cash provided by operating activities: Purchase of treasury shares (90,089) (90,089) Depreciation and amortization 124,104 110,860 1,118,154 Message from the President Retirement of treasury shares (180,187) 180,187 ― Change of scope of consolidation, etc. 0 153 162 Loss on sales and disposal of non-current assets and impairment loss 19,271 9,882 173,628 Net changes of items other Decrease in net defined benefit liability (12,157) (1,422) (109,532) than shareholdersʼ equity Interest and dividend income (2,445) (2,262) (22,029) Total changes of items during period − 0 823,921 90,089 914,028 Interest expenses 803 798 7,234 Balance at March 31, 2019 $ 1,633,949 $ 1,649,247 $ 7,411,064 $ (4,820) $ 10,689,440 Foreign exchange losses (gains) 266 (81) 2,396 Share of profit of entities accounted for using equity method (1,317) (2,521) (11,865) Increase in notes and operating accounts receivable (1,852) (8,621) (16,686) Accumulated other comprehensive income Decrease (increase) in flight equipment spare parts and supplies 188 (876) 1,693 NonValuation difference Deferred Foreign currency Remeasurements Total ac-cumulated controlling Total net assets on availablegains(losses) on translation of defined benefit other compreheIncrease in operating accounts payable 7,707 18,803 69,438 interests Business Activities and Strategy for-sale securities hedges adjustment plans nsive income Other, net 29,823 13,780 268,699 Balance at April 1, 2018 $ 148,382 $ 57,302 $ (270) $ (427,389) $ (221,974) $ 304,459 $ 9,857,888 Subtotal 320,632 300,820 2,888,836 Changes of items during period Interest and dividend income received 3,005 2,895 27,074 Dividends of surplus (354,779) Interest expenses paid (802) (802) (7,225) Profit attributable to owners of parent 1,358,744 Income taxes paid (26,117) (21,370) (235,309) Purchase of treasury shares (90,089) Net cash provided by operating activities 296,717 281,542 2,673,366 Retirement of treasury shares ― Cash flows from investing activities JAL REPORT 2019 Change of scope of consolidation, etc. 162 Payments into time deposits (529,763) (408,263) (4,773,069) Net changes of items other than shareholdersʼ equity 35,156 (40,742) 1,171 34,588 30,173 10,892 41,075 Proceeds from withdrawal of time deposits 526,442 421,808 4,743,148 Total changes of items during period 35,156 (40,742) 1,171 34,588 30,173 10,892 955,104 Purchase of non-current assets (222,126) (208,002) (2,001,315) Balance at March 31, 2019 $ 183,539 $ 16,551 $ 891 $ (392,792) $ (191,792) $ 315,352 $ 10,813,001 Proceeds from sales of non-current assets 33,390 22,701 300,837 ESG Management Purchase of investment securities (4,153) (2,941) (37,417) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Proceeds from sales and redemption of investment securities 247 1,578 2,225 Proceeds from purchase of shares of subsidiaries resulting in change in scope of consolidation ― 48 ― Proceeds from sales of shares of subsidiaries resulting in change in scope of consolidation ― 23 ― Payments of loans receivable (314) (1,270) (2,829) Collection of loans receivable 833 954 7,505 Other, net 5,730 6,761 51,626 Net cash used in investing activities (189,713) (166,600) (1,709,280) Financial Data/ Corporate Information Cash flows from financing activities Net decrease in short-term loans payable (3,085) (2,221) (27,795) Proceeds from long-term loans payable 10,800 30,306 97,306 Repayments of long-term loans payable (19,439) (13,468) (175,141) Repayments for lease obligations (2,649) (6,004) (23,867) Proceeds from issuance of bonds 29,796 ― 268,456 Purchase of treasury shares (10,024) (10,004) (90,314) Cash dividends paid (39,347) (51,749) (354,509) Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (3,534) (2,851) (31,840) Other, net 447 111 4,027 Net cash used in financing activities (37,037) (55,883) (333,696) Effect of exchange rate change on cash and cash equivalents 2 (354) 18 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 69,968 58,704 630,399 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 182,870 124,261 1,647,625 Increase in cash and cash equivalents resulting from merger ― 122 ― Decrease in cash and cash equivalents resulting from exclusion of subsidiaries from consolidation (44) (218) (396) Cash and cash equivalents at end of period (Note 5) ¥ 252,795 ¥ 182,870 $ 2,277,637 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 98 99 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements f. Leased Assets k. Derivatives and Hedge Accounting Japan Airlines Co., Ltd. and Consolidated Subsidiaries Depreciation of leased assets is computed as follows: Derivatives positions are stated at fair value. Leased assets arising from finance lease transactions that transfer Gains or losses on derivatives designated as hedging instruments 1. BASIS OF PRESENTING FINANCIAL STATEMENTS b. Securities the ownership of leased assets to the lessee are depreciated are deferred until the gains or losses on the underlying hedged Japan Airlines Co., Ltd. (the “Company”) and its domestic Securities, except for investment securities of non-consolidated by the same method applied to assets arising from purchase items are recognized with any unrealized gains or losses reported Message from the President consolidated subsidiaries maintain their accounting records and subsidiaries and affiliates, are classified as trading securities, transactions. as a separate component of net assets, net of taxes. Foreign prepare their financial statements in accordance with accounting held-to-maturity securities or other securities. Trading securities Leased assets under finance lease transactions that do not transfer currency receivables and payables are translated at the applicable principles generally accepted in Japan, which are different in are carried at fair value. Held-to-maturity securities are carried the ownership to the lessee are depreciated to a residual value forward foreign currency exchange rates if certain conditions are certain respects as to the application and disclosure requirements at amortized cost. Marketable securities classified as other of zero by the straight-line method using the lease term as the met. of International Financial Reporting Standards. The accompanying securities are carried at fair value with any unrealized gain or useful life. consolidated financial statements have been compiled from the loss reported as a separate component of net assets, net of taxes. l. Revenue Recognition consolidated financial statements filed with the appropriate Non-marketable securities classified as other securities are carried g. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts Passenger and cargo revenues are recognized when the Local Finance Bureau of the Ministry of Finance as required by at cost or amortized cost. Cost of securities sold is determined General provision for doubtful accounts is provided by applying transportation services are rendered. the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act of Japan and include principally by the moving-average method. a reserve percentage to receivables based on experience from certain additional financial information for the convenience Investments in investment limited partnership and similar past transactions. When considered necessary, specific reserves are m. Income Taxes Business Activities and Strategy of readers outside Japan. Some supplementary information associations (those deemed as securities under Paragraph 2 of made based on the assessment of individual accounts. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for expected included in the statutory Japanese-language consolidated Article 2 of the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act of Japan) future tax consequences attributable to temporary differences financial statements, but not required for fair presentation, is not are stated at net amount equivalent to the Company’s equity on h. Accounting Method for Retirement Benefits between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing presented in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. the basis of the most recent financial statements available as of In calculating the retirement benefit obligation, the method assets and liabilities and their respective tax basis, and operating As permitted by the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act of the financial reporting date stipulated in respective partnership of attributing expected benefits to the accounting period is loss and tax credit carryforwards. Valuation allowance is recorded Japan, amounts of less than one million yen have been omitted. contracts. principally based on the benefit formula. to reduce deferred tax assets to their net realizable value if it is JAL REPORT 2019 As a result, the totals shown in the accompanying consolidated Actuarial gain and loss are amortized by the straight-line method more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax financial statements (both in yen and U.S. dollars) do not c. Inventories over a period ranging from 5 to 17 years, which is less than the assets will not be realized. necessarily agree with the sum of the individual amounts. Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realizable average remaining years of service of the active participants in the The Company and certain domestic consolidated subsidiaries file Certain amounts previously reported have been reclassified to value with cost determined principally by the moving-average plans. Amortization is computed from the fiscal year subsequent tax returns under the Japanese consolidated corporate tax system. conform to the current year’s classification. method. to the year in which the difference was recorded. ESG Management Past service cost is principally charged to income as incurred. n. Cash Equivalents 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES d. Tangible Fixed Assets (excluding leased assets) However, at certain subsidiaries past service cost is amortized Cash equivalents are defined as highly liquid, short-term a. Principles of Consolidation and Accounting for Investments Tangible fixed assets, excluding leased assets, are stated at cost, by the straight-line method over a period which is less than the investments with an original maturity of three months or less. in Unconsolidated Subsidiaries and Affiliates net of accumulated depreciation, and accumulated impairment average remaining years of service of the active participants in The accompanying consolidated financial statements include loss, if any, except as indicated in the following paragraph. the plans. 3. CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICY/CHANGES IN PRESENTATION the accounts of the Company and all significant subsidiaries Accumulated depreciation of tangible fixed assets on March For the year ended March 31, 2018 controlled directly or indirectly by the Company. Companies over 31, 2019 and 2018 amounted to ¥500,827 million ($4,512,361 i. Reserve for Loss on Antitrust Litigation Information about changes in accounting policy/changes in which the Company exercises significant influence in terms of thousand) and ¥436,907 million, respectively. Estimated future loss is accrued in order to provide for penalties presentation for the year ended March 31, 2018 is not applicable. Financial Data/ Corporate Information their operating and financial policies have been included in the Depreciation of tangible fixed assets is computed as follows: and compensation potentially arising from price cartels. For the year ended March 31, 2019 accompanying consolidated financial statements on the equity Flight equipment: The straight-line method based on its estimated (Changes due to application of “Partial Amendments to basis. useful life j. Foreign Currency Translation Accounting Standard for Tax Effect Accounting”) The balance sheet date of three of the consolidated subsidiaries Other: Principally the straight-line method based on the estimated Revenues and expenses in foreign currencies are translated The Company and its domestic subsidiaries adopted “Partial is December 31. Any significant differences in intercompany useful lives of the respective assets at the rates prevailing at the time of the transaction. Except Amendments to Accounting Standard for Tax Effect Accounting” accounts and transactions arising from intervening intercompany The estimated useful lives are principally as follows: as noted in “k. Derivatives and Hedge Accounting,” foreign (Accounting Standards Board of Japan (ASBJ) Statement No. 28, transactions during the period between the balance sheet date Flight equipment: From 12 to 20 years currency receivables and payables are translated into yen at the February 16, 2018 (hereinafter, “Statement No. 28”)) from the of each subsidiary and the consolidated balance sheet date Other: From 2 to 65 years applicable year-end foreign exchange rates and any gain or loss beginning of the current fiscal year and changed the presentation have been adjusted, if necessary. The differences between the on translation is included in current earnings. and related notes of deferred tax assets and deferred tax acquisition and the fair value of the net assets at the respective e. Software (excluding leased assets) Differences arising from the translation of assets, liabilities, liabilities, such that deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities dates of acquisition of the consolidated subsidiaries and Computer software intended for internal use is amortized by the revenues and expenses of foreign consolidated subsidiaries are classified as part of “non-current assets” and “non-current companies accounted for by the equity method are recorded as straight-line method based on its estimated useful life, which is and entities accounted for using the equity method into yen liabilities,” respectively. goodwill amortized by the straight-line method over a period of principally five years. at the applicable exchange rates at the year-end are presented five years. as foreign currency translation adjustment and non-controlling All significant intercompany accounts and transactions and interests in a component of net assets. unrealized gain or loss on intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated in consolidation. 100 101 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS As a result, in the consolidated balance sheet of the previous fiscal 4. U.S. DOLLAR AMOUNTS With respect to operating accounts receivable, the JAL Group Millions of yen year, “deferred tax assets” of ¥5,576 million ($50,238 thousand) Amounts in U.S. dollars are included solely for the convenience exercises due date management and outstanding balance As of March 31, 2019 Book value Fair value Difference classified in “current assets” and “deferred tax liabilities” of ¥230 of the reader. A rate of ¥110.99 = US$1.00, the approximate management in accordance with internal policies. The JAL Group Assets million ($2,072 thousand) classified in “non-current liabilities” exchange rate prevailing on March 31, 2019, has been used in makes its best efforts to identify and mitigate risks of bad debt (1) Cash and deposits ¥ 462,064 ¥ 462,064 ¥ − were presented in “non-current assets” of ¥66,036 million translation. The convenience translations should not be construed from major customers with financial difficulties by periodically (2) Notes and operating accounts 153,112 153,112 − receivable Message from the President ($594,972 thousand), and “deferred tax liabilities” classified as representations that the Japanese yen amounts have been, monitoring their creditworthiness. Securities and investment (3) Securities and investment in “non-current liabilities” were presented in non-current could have been or could in the future be converted into U.S. securities are composed mainly of shares of companies with which securities liabilities of ¥227 million ($2,045 thousand). dollars at this or any other rate of exchange. the JAL Group has business relationships. The JAL Group reviews (i) Investment securities of nonThe notes related to tax effect accounting additionally the fair values of such financial instruments and the financial consolidated subsidiaries 17,145 16,075 (1,069) and affiliates included those described in notes 8 (excluding total amount of 5. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS position of the issuers periodically in order to identify and (ii) Other investment securities 104,036 104,036 − valuation allowance) and 9 of the “Accounting Standard for The components of cash and cash equivalents in the mitigate risks of impairment. Most operating accounts payable Total 736,358 735,288 (1,069) Tax Effect Accounting,” which are required in paragraphs 3 to accompanying consolidated statements of cash flows on March are due within one year. As for derivatives, the JAL Group believes Liabilities 5 of Statement No. 28. However, that additional information 31, 2019 and 2018 were as follows: that the credit risks are extremely low, as it enters into derivative (1) Operating accounts payable 185,650 185,650 − corresponding to the previous fiscal year is not disclosed, transactions only with reputable financial institutions with a (2) Short-term loans payable 65 65 − Thousands of following the transitional treatments prescribed in paragraph 7 of Millions of yen U.S. dollars sound credit profile. (3) Bonds payable 50,000 50,568 568 Business Activities and Strategy Statement No. 28. As of March 31 2019 2018 2019 The Company utilizes derivatives in order to mitigate the risks (4) Long-term loans payable 86,811 86,811 − Cash and deposits ¥ 462,064 ¥ 417,842 $ 4,163,113 of fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange (5) Lease obligations 4,966 4,966 − Accounting Standards Issued but Not yet Effective rates on receivables and payables. The JAL Group utilizes currency (6) Long-term accounts payable— Securities 60,000 30,999 540,589 503 503 − installment purchase The following standard and guidance were issued but not yet Time deposits with a maturity options to reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange rate (269,268) (265,971) (2,426,056) Total 327,997 328,565 568 of more than three months adopted. fluctuations for specific foreign currency-denominated receivables Cash and cash equivalents ¥ 252,795 ¥ 182,870 $ 2,277,637 Derivatives* ¥ 2,412 ¥ 2,419 ¥ 7 -“Accounting Standard for Revenue Recognition” (ASBJ Statement and payables, mainly for fuel purchase payables. * Derivatives assets and liabilities are stated on a net basis, and net liabilities JAL REPORT 2019 No. 29, March 30, 2018) The JAL Group also utilizes commodity derivatives in order to are enclosed in parentheses. Transactions for which hedge accounting has not been applied are omitted -“Implementation Guidance on Accounting Standard for Revenue 6. INVESTMENT SECURITIES OF NON-CONSOLIDATED mitigate the risk of fluctuations in commodity prices of fuel and as they are not important. Recognition” (ASBJ Guidance No. 30, March 30, 2018) SUBSIDIARIES AND AFFILIATES stabilize such fuel costs. (1)Overview Investment securities of non-consolidated subsidiaries and There are internal policies for derivative transactions which Thousands of U.S. dollars The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and affiliates which were included in “investment securities” in set forth authorization levels and upper limits on transaction ESG Management As of March 31, 2019 Book value Fair value Difference Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) co-developed the consolidated balance sheets on March 31, 2019 and 2018 volumes, and the JAL Group enters into derivative transactions Assets a new comprehensive revenue recognition standard and amounted to ¥39,210 million ($353,275 thousand) and ¥37,477 in accordance with such policies. Moreover, monthly meetings (1) Cash and deposits $ 4,163,113 $ 4,163,113 $ − published “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” in May 2014 million, respectively. Bonds of affiliates which were included in are held with the attendance of Board members responsible for (2) Notes and operating accounts 1,379,511 1,379,511 − (International Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS) No. 15 in IASB, “investment securities” in the consolidated balance sheets on derivatives to determine methods and ratios for minimizing risks receivable Topic 606 in FASB). Considering IFRS No.15 will be applied from March 31, 2019 and 2018 amounted to ¥3,330 million ($30,002 as well as to report and confirm results of derivative transactions. (3) Securities and investment securities the fiscal year starting January 1, 2018 and Topic 606 from the thousand) and ¥3,330 million, respectively. Investments in other The fair value of financial instruments is based on the quoted (i) Investment securities of nonfiscal year starting December 15, 2017, the ASBJ developed the securities of non-consolidated subsidiaries and affiliates which market price, when it is available. When there is no market consolidated subsidiaries 154,473 144,832 (9,631) comprehensive Accounting Standard for Revenue Recognition were included in “investment securities” in the consolidated price available, fair value is reasonably estimated. Since various and affiliates Financial Data/ Corporate Information and published them together with implementation guidance. balance sheets on March 31, 2019 amounted to ¥1,679 million (ii) Other investment securities 937,345 937,345 − assumptions and factors are reflected in estimating the fair value, Total 6,634,453 6,624,813 (9,631) The fundamental policy for developing the Accounting Standard ($15,127 thousand). different assumptions and factors could result in a different fair Liabilities for Revenue Recognition by the ASBJ was that the accounting value. (1) Operating accounts payable 1,672,673 1,672,673 − standards would incorporate the fundamental policy of IFRS No. 7. FAIR VALUES OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The book value of financial instruments in the consolidated (2) Short-term loans payable 585 585 − 15 as the starting point from the perspective of comparability of The Company and its consolidated subsidiaries (the “JAL Group”) balance sheets, their fair value and the differences as of March (3) Bonds payable 450,491 455,608 5,117 financial statements, which is one of the benefits of achieving manage its financial instruments to raise funds, principally for 31, 2019 and 2018 were as follows: (4) Long-term loans payable 782,151 782,151 − consistency with IFRS No. 15. If there are matters to be taken into the purpose of flight equipment and facilities in accordance with (5) Lease obligations 44,742 44,742 − consideration in Japan in actual practice, etc., alternative handling management plans for air transportation, utilizing loans from (6) Long-term accounts payable— 4,531 4,531 − will be added within a range that would not impair financial financial institutions, issuance of bonds, finance lease transactions installment purchase statement comparability. and derivatives. Funds from short-term loans payable are utilized Total 2,955,194 2,960,311 5,117 Derivatives* $ 21,731 $ 21,794 $ 63 (2)Effective date for ordinary operations. Funds from long-term loans payable * Derivatives assets and liabilities are stated on a net basis, and net liabilities Effective from the beginning of the fiscal year ending March 31, and finance lease transactions are utilized for flight equipment are enclosed in parentheses. 2021. and facilities. Derivatives are utilized for the purpose of reducing Transactions for which hedge accounting has not been applied are omitted as they are not important. (3)Effects of the application of the standards the risk of fluctuations of interest rates and foreign currency The Company and its domestic consolidated subsidiaries are exchange rates, and not for the purpose of speculation. currently in the process of determining the effects of these new standards on the consolidated financial statements. 102 103 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Millions of yen Derivatives Millions of yen Millions of yen As of March 31, 2018 Book value Fair value Difference Derivatives are described further in “Note 9. DERIVATIVES AND More than More than Acquisition Carrying Unrealized Within one one year, five years, More than As of March 31, 2018 cost value gain (loss) Assets HEDGING ACTIVITIES.” year within five within 10 10 years Unrealized gain: (1) Cash and deposits ¥ 417,842 ¥ 417,842 ¥ − As of March 31, 2018 years years Stocks ¥ 15,410 ¥ 38,157 ¥ 22,747 (2) Notes and operating accounts (ii) Financial instruments for which the fair value is extremely Cash and deposits ¥ 417,842 ¥ − ¥ − ¥ − 151,262 151,262 − receivable 15,410 38,157 22,747 Message from the President difficult to measure Notes and operating 151,262 − − − (3) Securities and investment accounts receivable Unrealized loss: securities Investment securities: Stocks 499 474 (25) Thousands of − − − (i) Investment securities of nonShort-term investments 30,999 Millions of yen U.S. dollars Short-term investments 30,999 30,999 － consolidated subsidiaries 16,433 20,629 4,196 Held-to-maturity As of March 31 2019 2018 2019 − − − 3,330 31,499 31,474 (25) and affiliates securities Investment securities Total ¥ 46,910 ¥ 69,632 ¥ 22,721 (ii) Other investment securities 69,632 69,632 − Other securities of non-consolidated ¥ 22,065 ¥ 21,043 $ 198,801 − 2,091 − − with maturity date Total 655,170 659,366 4,196 subsidiaries and affiliates Proceeds from sales of securities classified as other securities for Liabilities Held-to-maturity securities 3,330 3,330 30,002 (1) Operating accounts payable 177,937 177,937 − The redemption schedule for short-term and long-term debt the year ended March 31, 2018 amounted to ¥1,496 million. For Other securities 14,711 11,318 132,543 (2) Short-term loans payable 3,150 3,150 − The above are not included in “(3) (ii) Other investment securities” in the subsequent to the consolidated balance sheet date is described in the year ended March 31, 2018, the aggregate gain realized on fair value of financial instruments because there is no market value and it is (3) Bonds payable 20,000 20,065 65 “Note 10. SHORT-TERM LOANS PAYABLE AND LONG-TERM DEBT.” those sales totaled ¥764 million, and the aggregate loss realized Business Activities and Strategy difficult to measure the fair value. (4) Long-term loans payable 95,252 95,252 − on those sales totaled ¥2 million. Neither of them was applicable (5) Lease obligations 6,708 6,708 − (iii) Redemption schedule for monetary claims and securities 8. INVESTMENT SECURITIES for the year ended March 31, 2019. (6) Long-term accounts payable— with maturity date subsequent to the consolidated balance No trading securities were held on March 31, 2019 and 2018. 666 666 − installment purchase sheet date Securities classified as other securities are included in “investment 9. DERIVATIVES AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES Total 303,715 303,780 65 securities” in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Certain consolidated subsidiaries utilize forward foreign currency Derivatives* ¥ 8,312 ¥ 8,307 ¥ (4) Millions of yen The components of unrealized gain or loss on marketable exchange contracts and currency options on a consistent basis * Derivatives assets and liabilities are stated on a net basis, and net liabilities JAL REPORT 2019 are enclosed in parentheses. More than More than securities classified as other securities on March 31, 2019 and 2018 to hedge certain foreign currency transactions related to Transactions for which hedge accounting has not been applied are omitted Within one one year, five years, More than as they are not important. year within five within 10 10 years were summarized as follows: foreign purchase commitments, principally for flight equipment As of March 31, 2019 years years and foreign accounts payable, and other items. The Company Cash and deposits ¥ 462,064 ¥ − ¥ − ¥ − (i) Methods of calculating the fair value of financial Millions of yen also enters into a variety of options in its management of risk Notes and operating instruments, including securities and derivatives transactions 153,112 − − − Acquisition Carrying Unrealized exposure related to the commodity prices of fuel. ESG Management accounts receivable As of March 31, 2019 cost value gain (loss) Investment securities: The Company and its consolidated subsidiaries enter into − − − Unrealized gain: Assets Short-term investments 60,000 these hedging transactions in accordance with the internal Stocks ¥ 15,095 ¥ 43,294 ¥ 28,199 Held-to-maturity (1) Cash and deposits and (2) Notes and operating accounts − − − 3,330 guidelines and strategies established by management. The securities 15,095 43,294 28,199 receivable Other securities Unrealized loss: routine operations of the department which is responsible − 1,027 − − The fair value equates to the book value due to the short-term with maturity date for hedging transactions are examined by other departments. Stocks 815 742 (72) nature of these instruments. Short-term investments 60,000 60,000 − Gains and losses on hedging instruments and the assessment of (3) Securities and investment securities 60,815 60,742 (72) hedge effectiveness, which are performed both at inception and Thousands of U.S. dollars The fair value of securities is determined mainly based on the Total ¥ 75,910 ¥ 104,036 ¥ 28,126 on an ongoing basis, are reported at meetings of the related Financial Data/ Corporate Information More than More than market price. These investment securities are described further in Within one one year, five years, More than department managers on a timely basis. year within five within 10 10 years “Note 8. INVESTMENT SECURITIES.” As of March 31, 2019 years years Thousands of U.S. dollars The contract amount and the estimated fair value of the open Cash and deposits $ 4,163,113 $ − $ − $ − Acquisition Carrying Unrealized derivatives positions on March 31, 2019 and 2018, which met the Liabilities Notes and operating As of March 31, 2019 cost value gain (loss) criteria required for the application of hedge accounting, are 1,379,511 − − − accounts receivable Unrealized gain: (1) Operating accounts payable and (2) Short-term loans payable summarized as follows: Investment securities: Stocks $ 136,003 $ 390,071 $ 254,067 − − − The fair value equates to the book value due to the short-term Short-term investments 540,589 136,003 390,071 254,067 nature of these instruments. Held-to-maturity − − − 30,002 securities Unrealized loss: (3) Bonds payable Other securities Stocks 7,343 6,685 (648) The fair value of bonds payable is determined based on the − 9,253 − − with maturity date Short-term investments 540,589 540,589 − market price. 547,932 547,274 (648) (4) Long-term loans payable, (5) Lease obligations and (6) LongTotal $ 683,935 $ 937,345 $ 253,410 term accounts payable—installment purchase The fair value of long-term loans payable, lease obligations and long-term accounts payable—installment purchase with fixed interest rates is based on the present value of future cash flows discounted using the current borrowing rate for similar debt of a comparable maturity. 104 105 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 10. SHORT-TERM LOANS PAYABLE AND LONG-TERM DEBT The aggregate annual maturities of long-term debt within five As of March 31, 2019 Contract amount Contract amount Certain The weighted-average interest rate for short-term loans years subsequent to March 31, 2019 are summarized as follows: Maturing Maturing payable outstanding on March 31, 2019 was 0.0%. Long-term Estimated Estimated Type of derivative Major hedged items Total after one Total after one Thousands of fair value fair value debt on March 31, 2019 and 2018 consisted of the following: Millions of yen year year Years ending March 31 U.S. dollars Forward foreign currency exchange contracts: 2020 ¥ 15,939 $ 143,607 Message from the President WeightedBuy: Thousands 2021 11,388 102,603 average Millions of yen of U.S. USD Operating accounts payable ¥ 55,926 ¥ 3,252 ¥ 687 $ 503,883 $ 29,299 $ 6,189 interest 2022 20,905 188,350 dollars EUR Operating accounts payable 2,513 34 (102) 22,641 306 (919) rate 2023 10,400 93,702 Others Operating accounts payable 1,287 − (27) 11,595 − (243) As of March 31 2019 2018 2019 2019 2024 19,088 171,979 Currency options: Long-term loans: 2025 and thereafter 64,558 581,656 Buy: Current portion of long-term loans ¥ 13,287 ¥ 14,555 $ 119,713 0.4% Total ¥ 142,281 $ 1,281,926 Call option Operating accounts payable 80,140 19,634 363 722,047 176,898 3,270 payable Sell: Long-term loans Assets pledged as collateral as of March 31, 2019 for long-term Put option Operating accounts payable 69,040 15,702 (134) 622,038 141,472 (1,207) payable (excluding 73,524 80,696 662,438 0.2% and short-term debt of ¥86,620 million ($780,430 thousand) are Commodity swaps: current portion) due 2020 to 2030 flight equipment and others totaling ¥162,738 million ($1,466,240 Business Activities and Strategy Received variable/pay fixed Aircraft fuel 81,055 21,049 1,624 730,291 189,647 14,631 Lease obligations: thousand). Assets pledged as collateral as of March 31, 2018 Method of hedge accounting: Special treatment Current portion of ( “Note 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES – k. Derivatives and Hedge Accounting”) 2,461 2,389 22,173 2.9% for long-term and short-term debt of ¥94,023 million are flight lease obligations equipment and others totaling ¥170,397 million. Forward foreign currency exchange contracts: Lease obligations (excluding current Also included as part of pledged assets are certain assets set aside Buy: 2,504 4,319 22,560 1.2% portion) due 2020 for revolving pledges on obligations accompanying syndicated USD Operating accounts payable 919 − 29 8,280 − 261 to 2032 loans taken out by an affiliate, Tokyo International Airport EUR Operating accounts payable 259 − (17) 2,333 − (153) Long-term accounts JAL REPORT 2019 Others Operating accounts payable 223 − (5) 2,009 − (45) payable—installment Terminal Corporation, for core business purposes. purchase: The Company entered into loan commitment agreements Total ¥ 2,419 $ 21,794 Current portion amounting to ¥50,000 million ($450,491 thousand) with three All derivative transactions were conducted as over-the-counter (OTC) transactions. Fair value is estimated based on prices quoted by of long-term financial institutions and others. accounts payable— 190 185 1,711 2.0% banks. There were no loan payables outstanding under these loan installment commitment agreements. ESG Management purchase Long-term accounts payable— 11. RETIREMENT BENEFIT PLANS installment Outline of Current Retirement Benefit System Millions of yen purchase 312 480 2,811 2.0% As of March 31, 2018 Contract amount (excluding current An employee whose employment is terminated is entitled, in most portion) due 2021 cases, to pension annuity payments or to a lump-sum severance Maturing Estimated Type of derivative Major hedged items Total to 2026 after one year fair value payment determined by reference to the employee’s basic rate Forward foreign currency exchange contracts: Bonds payable: of pay, length of service and the conditions under which the Buy: Bonds payable due 50,000 20,000 450,491 0.4% 2021 to 2038 termination occurs. Financial Data/ Corporate Information USD Operating accounts payable ¥ 41,055 ¥ 2,476 ¥ (1,450) Total ¥ 142,281 ¥ 122,626 $1,281,926 The Company and certain significant domestic consolidated EUR Operating accounts payable 2,673 64 (27) subsidiaries have established contributory defined benefit pension Others Operating accounts payable 1,594 2 (62) Currency options: plans such as corporate pension funds and lump-sum severance Buy: indemnity plans. In certain cases, additional severance payments Call option Operating accounts payable 69,659 17,343 449 may be provided. Sell: As of March 31, 2019, the Company and 38 consolidated Put option Operating accounts payable 61,946 14,691 (1,299) subsidiaries had adopted a lump-sum severance indemnity plan. Commodity swaps: Additionally, there were three corporate pension funds, including Received variable/pay fixed Aircraft fuel 67,883 17,908 10,702 the Japan Airlines Welfare Pension Fund. Certain foreign Method of hedge accounting: Special treatment ( “Note 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES – k. Derivatives and Hedge subsidiaries have also established contributory defined benefit Accounting”) pension plans. Forward foreign currency exchange contracts: The Japan Airlines Welfare Pension Fund also introduced an Buy: option similar to a cash-balance plan as well as other alternatives. USD Operating accounts payable 761 − (17) The JAL Group Pension Fund, which was established by certain EUR Operating accounts payable 258 − 15 consolidated subsidiaries, introduced a cash-balance plan option. Others Operating accounts payable 183 − (2) Some of the consolidated subsidiaries adopt the simplified Total Aircraft fuel ¥ 8,307 method for the calculation of retirement benefit obligations. All derivative transactions were conducted as OTC transactions. Fair value is estimated based on prices quoted by financial institutions and others. 106 107 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 (4) Reconciliation from retirement benefit obligations and plan (8) Plan assets 12. INCOME TAX a. Defined Benefit Plans assets to net defined benefit liability (asset) The significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities Years ended March 31 2019 2018 and the related valuation allowances on March 31, 2019 and 2018 (1) Balances of retirement benefit obligations, excluding plans Thousands of % % were as follows: Millions of yen U.S. dollars adopting the simplified method General insurance fund 91 91 Message from the President Years ended March 31 2019 2018 2019 Thousands Bond 4 4 Millions of yen of U.S. Funded retirement benefit Thousands of ¥ 373,012 ¥ 380,893 $ 3,360,771 Other 5 5 dollars Millions of yen obligations U.S. dollars As of March 31 2019 2018 2019 Plan assets (261,405) (248,801) (2,355,212) Total 100 100 Years ended March 31 2019 2018 2019 111,606 132,092 1,005,550 Current and target asset allocations, historical and expected returns Deferred tax assets: Balance at beginning of period ¥ 471,248 ¥ 477,584 $ 4,245,859 on various categories of plan assets have been considered in Unfunded retirement benefit Net defined benefit liability ¥ 64,380 ¥ 69,633 $ 580,052 Service cost 13,131 12,946 118,307 98,579 95,871 888,179 determining the long-term expected rate of return. obligations Operating accounts payable 11,020 11,790 99,288 Interest cost 3,482 3,527 31,372 Total net defined benefit 210,186 227,964 1,893,738 Accrued bonuses 7,735 355 69,690 Actuarial loss 2,280 1,363 20,542 liability (asset) (9) Actuarial assumptions Non-recurring depreciation 4,827 4,826 43,490 Benefit paid (24,323) (24,169) (219,145) Net defined benefit liability 212,672 230,084 1,916,136 Net defined benefit asset (2,486) (2,119) (22,398) Deferred liability on flight Other (1) (3) (9) 2,943 1,625 26,515 Years ended March 31 2019 2018 equipment Total ¥ 465,816 ¥ 471,248 $ 4,196,918 Total net defined benefit Business Activities and Strategy ¥ 210,186 ¥ 227,964 $ 1,893,738 % % Asset retirement obligations 2,482 1,194 22,362 liability (asset) Discount rate 0.4–1.2 0.4–1.2 Impairment loss 2,274 54 20,488 Long-term expected rate of return 1.0–2.0 1.0–2.0 Reserve for loss on antitrust 1,776 1,777 16,001 litigation (2) Balances of plan assets, excluding plans adopting the (5) Retirement benefit costs Deferred losses on hedges 880 675 7,928 simplified method b. Defined Contribution Plans Lease obligations ̶ 269 ̶ Thousands of Millions of yen The Company and its consolidated subsidiaries contributed a total Tax loss carryforwards*2 7,360 152,047 66,312 U.S. dollars Thousands of JAL REPORT 2019 Millions of yen Years ended March 31 2019 2018 2019 of ¥1,629 million ($14,676 thousand) and ¥1,614 million for the Other 9,728 9,203 87,647 U.S. dollars Years ended March 31 2019 2018 2019 Service cost ¥ 13,131 ¥ 12,946 $ 118,307 years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Subtotal of deferred tax assets 115,411 253,453 1,039,832 Balance at beginning of period ¥ 245,430 ¥ 242,402 $ 2,211,280 Interest cost 3,482 3,527 31,372 Valuation allowance for tax loss (567) — (5,108) carryforwards*2 Expected return on plan assets 3,749 3,698 33,777 Expected return on plan assets (3,749) (3,698) (33,777) Past service costs amortization (60) (49) (540) Valuation allowance for Actuarial gain 185 1,091 1,666 (4,605) — (41,490) deductible temporary differences ESG Management Contributions paid by the Net actuarial loss amortization 7,713 7,771 69,492 28,194 17,817 254,022 Subtotal of valuation allowances*1 (5,173) (174,066) (46,607) employer Retirement benefit cost based 400 343 3,603 Total deferred tax assets 110,238 79,386 993,224 Benefit paid (19,712) (19,579) (177,601) on the simplified method Balance at end of period ¥ 257,847 ¥ 245,430 $ 2,323,155 Other (697) (670) (6,279) Total ¥ 20,221 ¥ 20,169 $ 182,187 Deferred tax liabilities: Valuation difference on available8,548 6,854 77,015 for-sale securities Deferred gains on hedges 1,722 3,521 15,514 (3) Reconciliation from retirement benefit obligations and plan (6) Remeasurements of defined benefit plans in other Asset retirement obligations 629 336 5,667 assets to net defined benefit liability (asset), applying the comprehensive income Financial Data/ Corporate Information Leased assets ̶ 202 ̶ simplified method Other 2,882 2,662 25,966 Thousands of Millions of yen Total deferred tax liabilities 13,782 13,577 124,173 U.S. dollars Thousands of Millions of yen Years ended March 31 2019 2018 2019 U.S. dollars Years ended March 31 2019 2018 2019 Past service costs ¥ (60) ¥ (49) $ (540) Net deferred tax assets ¥ 96,455 ¥ 65,808 $ 869,042 Balance at beginning of period ¥ 2,146 ¥ 2,059 $ 19,335 Actuarial gains 5,619 7,499 50,626 *1 Valuation allowances decreased by ¥168,893 million ($1,521,695 Retirement benefit cost 400 343 3,603 Total ¥ 5,558 ¥ 7,449 $ 50,076 thousand). The main reasons for this are: (1) the valuation allowance for tax loss carryforwards has decreased since the tax loss carryforwards Contributions paid by the resulting from reorganization expired at the Company and (2) the (124) (106) (1,117) employer valuation allowance for deductible temporary differences, etc., based on Benefit paid (169) (149) (1,522) the estimated amount of future taxable income has decreased owing to (7) Remeasurements of defined benefit plans in accumulated the JAL Group’s stable performance. Decrease due to partial *2 Tax loss carryforwards and the deferred tax assets for that by deadline termination of retirement (31) ― (279) other comprehensive income of carry forward: benefit plans Other (4) (0) (36) Thousands of Balance at end of period ¥ 2,216 ¥ 2,146 $ 19,965 Millions of yen U.S. dollars As of March 31 2019 2018 2019 Past service costs that are yet to ¥ (259) ¥ (320) $ (2,333) be recognized Actuarial losses that are yet to 62,538 68,157 563,456 be recognized Total ¥ 62,278 ¥ 67,837 $ 561,113 108 109 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Millions of yen certain conditions are met, but neither additional paid-in capital 14. OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 15. IMPAIRMENT LOSS ON NON-CURRENT ASSETS 2025 nor the legal reserve is available for distribution by resolution of Reclassification adjustments for each component of other Assets are attributed or allocated to cash-generating units As of March 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 and Total the Board of Directors. comprehensive income including tax effect for the years ended which generated largely independent cash flows for calculating 31, 2019 beyond A company may, by a resolution of its board of directors, March 31, 2019 and 2018 were as follows: impairment loss. Assets to be sold and idle assets are written Tax loss ¥ 7,156 ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ 204 ¥ 7,360 carryforwards (a) designate an amount not exceeding half of the price of new down to their respective recoverable amounts. Message from the President Valuation shares as additional paid-in capital, which is included in capital Thousands The Company and its consolidated subsidiaries estimated (363) — — — — (204) (567) Millions of yen of U.S. allowance surplus. The maximum amount that a company can distribute dollars recoverable amounts at the higher of fair value less costs to sell Deferred tax ¥ 6,792 ¥ 6,792 ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ ― as dividends is calculated based on its unconsolidated financial Years ended March 31 2019 2018 2019 and value in use. Fair value is based on reasonable estimates made assets (b) statements in accordance with the Act. Valuation difference on availableby the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries in accordance for-sale securities, net of taxes: At the annual shareholders’ meeting held on June 18, 2019, the with the contract amounts of sales for the years ended March 31, Thousands of U.S. dollars Unrealized holding gains arising shareholders approved dividends of surplus amounting to ¥19,189 ¥ 5,562 ¥ 3,722 $ 50,112 2019 and 2018, respectively. during the period 2025 As of March 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 and Total million ($172,889 thousand). Such appropriations have not been Less: Reclassification adjustment The Company and certain consolidated subsidiaries have ̶ — ̶ 31, 2019 beyond accrued in the consolidated financial statements as of March 31, 2019. included in profit recognized impairment loss on the following groups of assets Tax loss Pre-tax amount 5,562 3,722 50,112 $ 64,474 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 1,838 $ 66,312 The total number and changes in the total number of shares of in the accompanying consolidated statements of income and carryforwards (a) Tax expense (benefit) (1,693) (1,131) (15,253) stock authorized and in issue and common stock in treasury for comprehensive income for the year ended March 31, 2019: Business Activities and Strategy Valuation Valuation difference on available(3,270) — — — — (1,838) (5,108) 3,868 2,590 34,849 allowance the year ended March 31, 2019 were as follows: for-sale securities, net of taxes Deferred tax $ 61,194 Deferred gains (losses) on hedges, $ 61,194 $ — $— $ — $ — $ ― Assets utilized in the Companyʼs assets (b) Thousands of shares net of taxes: and consolidated subsidiariesʼ Groups of assets Locations (a) Tax loss carryforwards are the amount resulting from multiplying Year ended March 31, On April On March Deferred gains (losses) arising operations Increase Decrease 5,835 12,595 52,572 the statutory rate. 2019 1, 2018 31, 2019 during the period (b) As taxable income against which tax loss carryforwards can be Number of shares of Assets to be sold or disposed of Flight equipment ― utilized is likely to be earned in the next year, the Company has Less: Reclassification adjustment stock authorized: (12,252) (2,702) (110,388) determined that deferred tax assets for the tax loss carryforwards included in profit Narita are recoverable. Common stock 700,000 — ̶ 700,000 JAL REPORT 2019 Pre-tax amount (6,417) 9,892 (57,816) Equipment International Preferred stock 50,000 — ̶ 50,000 Assets to be disposed of (Including asset Airport A reconciliation between the Japanese statutory income tax rate Tax expense (benefit) 1,912 (2,923) 17,226 Total 750,000 ̶ ̶ 750,000 retirement obligation) Maintenance Deferred gains (losses) on and the Company’s and the consolidated subsidiaries’ effective Number of shares of (4,505) 6,969 (40,589) district hedges, net of taxes tax rates for the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 were as stock in issue: Foreign currency translation Common stock 353,715 — 4,687 349,028 follows: adjustment: An impairment loss of ¥7,898 million ($71,159 thousand) was ESG Management Total 353,715 ̶ 4,687 349,028 Translation adjustment arising recognized as non-operating expenses in the accompanying Number of shares 25 (308) 225 Years ended March 31 2019 2018 during the period of common stock in consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income treasury: Less: Reclassification adjustment % % (0) 11 (0) for the year ended March 31, 2019. The main breakdown is flight included in profit Common stock 2,555 2,333 4,687 201 Statutory rate 29.9 30.2 Foreign currency translation equipment of ¥477 million ($4,297 thousand) and equipment Total 2,555 2,333 4,687 201 25 (296) 225 Share of loss of entities accounted for using adjustment (0.3) (0.5) including removal costs corresponding to asset retirement equity method Remeasurements of defined benefit The increase in common stock in treasury of 2,333 thousand plans: obligation in the Narita International Airport Maintenance Changes in valuation allowance (including the (30.8) (14.3) shares is due to the share repurchase. district scheduled for reorganizations of ¥7,421 million ($66,861 tax loss carryforwards expired) Remeasurements of defined The decrease in common stock and common stock in treasury of benefit plans arising during the (2,094) (271) (18,866) thousand). The recoverable amount of assets to be sold or Financial Data/ Corporate Information Other 1.9 (2.2) period 4,687 thousand shares is due to the retirement of treasury shares. disposed of is measured by the net realizable value based on Effective tax rate 0.7 13.2 Less: Reclassification adjustment The total number and changes in the total number of shares of 7,653 7,721 68,952 a sales agreement (assets that cannot be sold are evaluated as included in profit Income taxes in Japan applicable to the Company and its domestic stock authorized and in issue and common stock in treasury for Pre-tax amount 5,558 7,449 50,076 zero), or calculated by discounting future cash flows measured by consolidated subsidiaries consist of corporation tax, inhabitants’ the year ended March 31, 2018 were as follows: Tax expense (benefit) (1,712) (1,968) (15,424) value in use by 5.0%. taxes and enterprise tax. Income taxes of foreign consolidated Remeasurements of defined The Company and certain consolidated subsidiaries have 3,845 5,481 34,642 Thousands of shares benefit plans subsidiaries are based generally on the tax rates applicable in recognized impairment loss on the following groups of assets Year ended March 31, On April On March Share of other comprehensive their countries of incorporation. Increase Decrease in the accompanying consolidated statements of income and 2018 1, 2017 31, 2018 income of entities accounted for Number of shares of using equity method: comprehensive income for the year ended March 31, 2018: stock authorized: Share of other comprehensive 13. NET ASSETS Common stock 700,000 — ̶ 700,000 income of entities accounted 71 70 639 The Companies Act of Japan (the “Act”) provides that an for using equity method arising Assets utilized in the Companyʼs Preferred stock 50,000 — ̶ 50,000 during the period and consolidated subsidiariesʼ Groups of assets Locations amount equal to at least 10% of the amount to be disbursed Total 750,000 ̶ ̶ 750,000 Total other comprehensive income ¥ 3,305 ¥ 14,814 $ 29,777 operations as distributions of capital surplus (except for distributions from Number of shares of stock in issue: Assets to be sold Flight equipment ― additional paid-in capital) and retained earnings (except for Common stock 353,715 — ̶ 353,715 distributions from the legal reserve) be appropriated to additional Total 353,715 ̶ ̶ 353,715 paid-in capital and the legal reserve, respectively, until the sum of Number of shares An impairment loss of ¥1,209 million was recognized mainly on of common stock in additional paid-in capital and the legal reserve equals 25% of the flight equipment as non-operating expenses in the accompanying treasury: capital stock account. Such distributions can be made at any time Common stock 199 2,356 ̶ 2,555 consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income by a resolution of the shareholders, or by the Board of Directors if Total 199 2,356 ̶ 2,555 for the year ended March 31, 2018. 110 111 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 16. LEASES The following table sets forth the computation of basic earnings 19. ASSET RETIREMENT OBLIGATIONS 20. SEGMENT INFORMATION As Lessee per share of common stock for the years ended March 31, 2019 a. Asset Retirement Obligations Recognized in the The reportable segments of the Company and its consolidated Depreciation equivalent is calculated by the straight-line method and 2018: Consolidated Balance Sheets on March 31, 2019 and 2018 subsidiaries are components for which discrete financial on the assumption that the useful lives of the related assets are The Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, in connection information is available and whose operating results are regularly Thousands the same as the lease term and the residual value is zero. with some buildings and land, have entered into real estate lease reviewed by the Board of Directors to make decisions about Millions of yen of U.S. Message from the President Interest expenses equivalent is calculated on the assumption dollars contracts with terms ranging from 1 to 46 years for the years resource allocation and to assess performance. Air transportation that the difference between aggregate lease rentals and the Years ended March 31 2019 2018 2019 ended March 31, 2019 and 2018. Asset retirement obligations includes international and domestic passenger operations, cargo acquisition cost of leased assets is deemed to be the interest Earnings (allocable to) available have been recognized in light of the obligation of the Company operations and other transportation services. for shareholders of common portion and is apportioned over the term of the lease by the stock: and its consolidated subsidiaries to the owners of the buildings The accounting policies of the segments are substantially the interest method. Profit attributable to owners and land to remove the facilities from leased real estate at the same as those described in [the significant accounting policies in ¥ 150,807 ¥ 135,406 $ 1,358,744 of parent Future rental expenses under non-cancelable operating leases end of those contracts. The liabilities on March 31, 2019 and 2018 “Note 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES.” Appropriations for payment of outstanding on March 31, 2019 and 2018 were as follows: ̶ ̶ ̶ have been calculated with expected useful lives ranging from 1 to Inter-group sales are recorded under the same conditions used in preferred dividend ¥ 150,807 ¥ 135,406 $ 1,358,744 46 years and discount rates ranging from 0.1% to 2.5%. transactions with third parties. Thousands of Millions of yen The following table summarizes the changes in the aggregate U.S. dollars carrying amount of asset retirement obligations for the years Business Activities and Strategy As of March 31 2019 2018 2019 Thousands of shares Within one year ¥ 14,368 ¥ 12,278 $ 129,453 ended March 31, 2019 and 2018: Years ended March 31 2019 2018 Over one year 66,802 55,188 601,874 Weighted-average number of shares of 349,006 353,334 Total ¥ 81,170 ¥ 67,466 $ 731,327 common stock outstanding Thousands Millions of yen of U.S. dollars 17. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Net assets per share are computed based on the net assets Years ended March 31 2019 2018 2019 On March 31, 2019 and 2018, contingent liabilities for guarantees available for distribution to the shareholders of common stock Balance at beginning of period ¥ 3,988 ¥ 3,788 $ 35,931 JAL REPORT 2019 for bank loans of employees amounted to ¥81 million ($729 and the number of shares of common stock outstanding on each Increase due to purchases of tangible 2 0 18 thousand) and ¥107 million, respectively. fixed assets balance sheet date. Increase due to changes in estimated On March 31, 2019 and 2018, contingent liabilities for guarantees 5,031 143 45,328 obligations* yen U.S. dollars for lease obligations of Jetstar Japan Co., Ltd. amounted to ¥3,680 Accretion due to the passage of time 58 56 522 Years ended March 31 2019 2018 2019 million ($33,156 thousand) and ¥4,042 million, respectively. Decrease due to settlement (423) (0) (3,811) ESG Management Net assets per share of The Company guarantees for damage resulting from a breach of ¥ 3,340.15 ¥ 3,019.52 $ 30.09 Balance at end of period ¥ 8,657 ¥ 3,988 $ 77,998 common stock the obligation, assertion or guarantee on the contract regarding * Regarding the buildings in the Narita International Airport Maintenance district, ¥5,001 million ($45,058 thousand) is recognized as the total stock transfer reservation concluded between Fukuoka Airport cost and the timing of the obligation to restore them to their original Holdings Co., Ltd. (transferor), in which the Company holds an condition have become estimable for the year ended March 31, 2019. investment, and the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism Civil Aviation Bureau (transferee), capped at ¥7,867 b. Asset Retirement Obligations Not Recognized in the million ($70,880 thousand) on March 31, 2019 and 2018. Consolidated Balance Sheets as of March 31, 2019 and 2018 The Company and its consolidated subsidiaries have rented lots Financial Data/ Corporate Information 18. AMOUNTS PER SHARE and buildings from domestic service airports based on permission Basic earnings per share is computed based on the earnings for national property use and a real estate rental contract for available for distribution to or allocable to the shareholders of national property, and have an obligation to remove the facilities common stock and the weighted-average number of shares of from leased real estate. The Company and its consolidated common stock outstanding during each year. Diluted earnings per subsidiaries have an important role in public traffic, and depend share are computed based on earnings available for distribution on the trends of the aviation administration of each country. to the shareholders and the weighted-average number of shares For this reason, the time of building removal and withdrawal of common stock outstanding during each year after giving cannot be determined at the discretion of the Company and its effect to the potentially dilutive securities to be issued upon the consolidated subsidiaries alone in regard to rented airport-related conversion of convertible bonds. However, diluted earnings per facilities. Moreover, since there is also no schedule for building share have not been presented for the years ended March 31, removal and withdrawal at present, asset retirement obligations 2019 and 2018 since the Company had no equity instruments cannot be reasonably estimated. Therefore, the asset retirement issued that had a dilutive effect on earnings per share. obligations corresponding to the debt concerned have not been calculated. yen U.S. dollars Years ended March 31 2019 2018 2019 Earnings per share of common stock: Basic ¥ 432.10 ¥ 383.23 $ 3.89 112 113 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Changes due to application of “Partial Amendments to (3) Total purchase price of shares Millions of yen Accounting Standard for Tax Effect Accounting”) ¥20 billion (maximum) Air Other Total Eliminations Consolidated From the beginning of the current fiscal year, the Company and its (4) Purchase period Year ended March 31, 2019 transportation domestic consolidated subsidiaries adopted “Partial Amendments May 7, 2019 to September 30, 2019 Operating revenue: to Accounting Standard for Tax Effect Accounting” (ASBJ (5) Other External ¥ 1,234,497 ¥ 252,764 ¥ 1,487,261 ¥̶ ¥ 1,487,261 Message from the President Statement No. 28, February 16, 2018) and changed the method The Company plans to retire all of the acquired treasury shares Intersegment 123,105 35,425 158,531 (158,531) ̶ of presentation. Segment assets are indicated using converted by the meeting of the Board of Directors in accordance with Total 1,357,603 288,190 1,645,793 (158,531) 1,487,261 figures that reflect changes to the method of presentation on the Companies Act Article 178. Segment profit 162,316 13,880 176,196 (36) 176,160 March 31, 2018. Assets 1,971,986 189,582 2,161,569 (131,240) 2,030,328 Information by Geographical Area Depreciation and amortization 121,863 2,249 124,113 (9) 124,104 Operating revenue from overseas operations, which include Impairment loss 7,898 ̶ 7,898 ̶ 7,898 international passenger and cargo services of domestic Investments in entities accounted for using equity 8,246 23,323 31,570 ̶ 31,570 consolidated airline subsidiaries rendered during the years ended method March 31, 2019 and 2018, export sales of domestic consolidated Business Activities and Strategy Increase in tangible fixed assets and intangible assets ¥ 221,708 ¥ 1,768 ¥ 223,477 ¥ ̶ ¥ 223,477 subsidiaries and sales of consolidated subsidiaries outside Japan for the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 were as follows: Thousands of Thousands of U.S. dollars Millions of yen U.S. dollars Air Other Total Eliminations Consolidated Years ended March 31 2019 2018 2019 Year ended March 31, 2019 transportation JAL REPORT 2019 Operating revenue: Asia and Oceania ¥ 274,167 ¥ 237,359 $ 2,470,195 External $ 11,122,596 $ 2,277,358 $ 13,399,954 $ ̶ $ 13,399,954 North America 236,802 209,263 2,133,543 Intersegment 1,109,153 319,172 1,428,335 (1,428,335) ̶ Europe 100,944 89,247 909,487 Total 12,231,759 2,596,540 14,828,299 (1,428,335) 13,399,954 ESG Management Total ¥ 611,914 ¥ 535,871 $ 5,513,235 Segment profit 1,462,438 125,056 1,587,494 (324) 1,587,170 Assets 17,767,240 1,708,099 19,475,349 (1,182,448) 18,292,891 Depreciation and amortization 1,097,963 20,263 1,118,235 (81) 1,118,154 21. RELATED-PARTY INFORMATION Impairment loss 71,159 ̶ 71,159 ̶ 71,159 There are no material transactions that need to be presented for Investments in entities accounted for using equity 74,294 210,136 284,440 ̶ 284,440 the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018. method Increase in tangible fixed assets and intangible assets $ 1,997,549 $ 15,929 $ 2,013,487 $ ̶ $ 2,013,487 22. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS Financial Data/ Corporate Information Share Repurchase The Company resolved to purchase treasury shares at the meeting of the Board of Directors held on April 26, 2019, in accordance Millions of yen with the Companies Act Article 156, Paragraph 1, applied by Air replacement under Article 165, Paragraph 3 of the same Act. Other Total Eliminations Consolidated Year ended March 31, 2018 transportation Operating revenue: As a result, the following was implemented. External ¥ 1,140,333 ¥ 242,923 ¥ 1,383,257 ¥ — ¥ 1,383,257 Intersegment 116,931 32,386 149,318 (149,318) — 1. Reasons for share repurchase Total 1,257,265 275,310 1,532,575 (149,318) 1,383,257 To improve capital efficiency and expand shareholders’ return Segment profit 161,261 13,401 174,662 (96) 174,565 2. Details of repurchase Assets 1,800,285 172,840 1,973,126 (119,128) 1,853,997 (1) Type of shares to be purchased Depreciation and amortization 108,236 2,635 110,872 (11) 110,860 Common shares of the Company Impairment loss 1,184 25 1,209 — 1,209 (2) Total number of shares to be purchased Investments in entities accounted for using equity 7 million shares (maximum) 8,475 22,192 30,668 — 30,668 method (2.0% of total number of issued shares excluding treasury Increase in tangible fixed assets and intangible assets ¥ 209,541 ¥ 1,263 ¥ 210,804 ¥ — ¥ 210,804 shares) 114 115 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES (As of March 31, 2019) Paid-in Capital Ratio of Voting Rights Paid-in Capital Ratio of Voting Rights Corporate Name Corporate Name (Millions of yen) Direct(%) Indirect(%) Total(%) (Millions of yen) Direct(%) Indirect(%) Total(%) Message from the President Air Transport Business Segment Other Segments Air Transport Business Maintenance JAPAN TRANSOCEAN AIR CO., LTD. 4,537 72.8 — 72.8 JAL AIRTECH CO., LTD. 315 66.6 3.4 70.0 JAPAN AIR COMMUTER CO., LTD. 300 60.0 — 60.0 Cargo J-AIR CO., LTD. 200 100.0 — 100.0 HKD1,000 JUPITER GLOBAL, LTD. 46.4 4.6 51.0 ZIPAIR TOKYO CO., LTD. 490 100.0 — 100.0 1,960 HOKKAIDO AIR SYSTEM CO., LTD. 490 57.3 — 57.3 Passenger Sales RYUKYU AIR COMMUTER CO., LTD. 396 — 74.5 74.5 JALPAK CO., LTD.*1 80 96.4 1.2 97.7 Airport Passenger Handling JAL SALES CO., LTD. 460 100.0 — 100.0 JAL SKY CO., LTD. 100 100.0 — 100.0 JAL JTA SALES CO., LTD. 30 16.7 83.3 100.0 Business Activities and Strategy JAL SKY AIRPORT OKINAWA COMPANY., LTD. 33 66.7 33.0 100.0 JALPAK INTERNATIONAL USD 1,000 — 100.0 100.0 JALSKY OSAKA CO., LTD. 30 100.0 — 100.0 HAWAII, INC. 1,000 — JALPAK INTERNATIONAL EUR 1,000 JALSKY KYUSHU CO., LTD. 30 100.0 100.0 — 100.0 100.0 (EUROPE) B.V. 1,600 JALSKY SAPPORO CO., LTD. 30 100.0 — 100.0 JALPAK INTERNATIONAL EUR 1,000 — 100.0 100.0 JALSKY KANAZAWA CO., LTD. 10 100.0 — 100.0 (FRANCE) S.A.S. 160 JALSKY SENDAI CO., LTD. 10 100.0 — 100.0 EURO-CREATIVE TOURS (U.K.) GBP 1,000 — 100.0 100.0 LTD. 100 Ground Handling JAL REPORT 2019 JALPAK INTERNATIONAL ASIA SGD 1,000 JAL GROUND SERVICE CO., LTD. 100 99.8 0.2 100.0 — 100.0 100.0 PTE. LTD. 146 JAL GROUND SERVICE OSAKA CO., LTD. 10 — 100.0 100.0 JAL SATELLITE TRAVEL CO., HKD 1,000 — 100.0 100.0 JAL GROUND SERVICE KYUSHU CO., LTD. 10 — 100.0 100.0 LTD. 750 JAL GROUND SERVICE SAPPORO CO., LTD. 10 — 97.7 97.7 IDR 1,000 PT. TAURINA TRAVEL DJAYA*2 — 49.0 49.0 500,000 Maintenance ESG Management Airport-Related Business JAL ENGINEERING CO., LTD. 80 100.0 — 100.0 JAL MAINTENANCE SERVICE CO., LTD. 10 100.0 — 100.0 JAL ABC, INC. 100 51.0 — 51.0 Cargo Others JAL KANSAI AIRCARGO JAL INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY CO., LTD. 702 100.0 — 100.0 100 69.2 — 69.2 SYSTEM CO., LTD. AXESS INTERNATIONAL NETWORK, INC. 700 100.0 — 100.0 JAL CARGO SERVICE CO., LTD. 50 100.0 — 100.0 JAL CARD, INC. 360 50.6 — 50.6 JAL CARGO HANDLING CO., LTD. 50 — 100.0 100.0 JAL FACILITIES CO., LTD. 180 85.0 — 85.0 JAL CARGO SERVICE KYUSHU CO., LTD. 20 40.0 40.0 80.0 JAL PAYMENT PORT CO., LTD. 390 16.5 68.5 84.9 Financial Data/ Corporate Information Passenger Sales JAL Digital EXPERIENCE CO., 140 51.0 — 51.0 JAL NAVIA CO., LTD. 50 100.0 — 100.0 LTD. JAL AGRIPORT CO., LTD. 100 49.0 — 49.0 JAL MILEAGE BANK CO., LTD. 40 100.0 — 100.0 Airport-Related Business JAL BRAND COMMUNICATIONS 100 100.0 — 100.0 CO., LTD. JAL ROYAL CATERING 2,700 51.0 — 51.0 JAL BUSINESS AVIATION CO., CO., LTD. 75 51.0 — 51.0 LTD. JTA INFORMATION & COMMUNICATION CO., LTD. 50 — 100.0 100.0 JAL SBI FINTECH CO., LTD. 45 51.0 — 51.0 JAL SUNLIGHT CO., LTD. 20 100.0 — 100.0 OFFICIAL FILING CO., LTD. 10 50.0 4.0 54.0 JPRO CO., LTD. 10 — 100.0 100.0 JLC INSURANCE COMPANY USD 1,000 100.0 — 100.0 LIMITED 2,000 *1 O perating revenue (excluding operating revenue between consolidated subsidiaries) of JALPAK CO., LTD. accounts for over 10% of consolidated operating revenue. *2 Although JAL’s ownership is 50% or less, the company is a considered subsidiary because JAL has substantial control. 116 117 ESG DATA Governance Data (Japan Airlines Co., Ltd.) (G) Corporate governance-related items Formulation of Fundamental Policies of Corporate Governance Yes Topics discussed (As of July 1, 2019) Organization Form Company with Audit & Supervisory Board Directors Environmental Data (E) Term of Office Stipulated 1 year Chairperson of the Board Chairman FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Unit Number of Directors (of which, External Directors) 10 (of which, three External Directors) Environment Number of Board of Directors meetings 19 (Fiscal year 2018) CO2 Emissions External Director attendance at Board of Directors meetings 96% (Fiscal year 2018) Scope 1 Aircraft 840 854 875 907 933 10,000 tons Audit & Supervisory Board Members Ground *1*2 1.5 1.5 1.4 1.3 1.3 10,000 tons Number of Audit & Supervisory Board Members (of which, External Members) Five (of which, three External Members) Message from the President Scope 2 *1*2 6.4 6.0 5.7 5.4 5.0 10,000 tons Scope 3 — — 44.4 46.0 47.3 10,000 tons External Audit & Supervisory Board Member attendance at Board of Directors meetings 100%(Fiscal year 2018) CO2 Emissions/RTK (Comparison with FY 2005) 86.6 85.1 84.6 82.2 80.6 ％ Key meetings attended by Audit & Supervisory Board Management Committee, Group Council for Safety Enhancement General Meeting, Risk Management Members Council, Group Earnings Announcement Session, Management Liaison Committee NOx (LTO cycle) 6.12 5.78 5.30 5.02 5.10 1,000 tons Number of Audit & Supervisory Board meetings 13 (Fiscal year 2018) CO (LTO cycle) 4.38 4.43 4.24 3.87 3.95 1,000 tons External Audit & Supervisory Board Member attendance at Audit & HC (LTO cycle) 0.70 0.72 0.71 0.63 0.63 1,000 tons Supervisory Board meetings 100% (Fiscal year 2018) Appointment of independent External Directors and External Audit & Electricity Use*1 125 120 113 110 102 Million kWh Supervisory Board Members Six (three External Directors, three External Audit & Supervisory Board Members) Heat Use (crude oil equivalent)*1 48,494 46,770 44,936 43,512 41,717 1,000 liters Water Use*1 445 430 426 435 485 1,000㎥ Accounting Auditor KPMG AZSA LLC Internal Auditing Audit General Waste (Aircraft) *1*2 — — — 4,368 4,285 tons Business Activities and Strategy General Waste (Ground) *1*2 — — — 1,772 1,689 tons Composition Number of meetings Industrial Waste *1 3,415 3,475 3,436 3,266 3,912 tons Establishment of Committee (number of members) The Chairperson (Fiscal year 2018) Ratio of Final Disposal 1.2 1.2 1.1 1.0 1.0 ％ Corporate Governance Committee 4 Eizo Kobayashi (Lead Independent External Director) 3 Nominating Committee 5 Masatoshi Ito (Independent External Director) 7 Compensation Committee 5 Eizo Kobayashi (Lead Independent External Director) 3 Social Data (Japan Airlines Co., Ltd. and 51 Consolidated Subsidiaries) (S) Personnel Committee 5 Yuji Akasaka (Representative Director, Executive President) 2 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Unit Officers Disciplinary Committee 5 Eizo Kobayashi (Lead Independent External Director) 2 Human Resources JAL REPORT 2019 Consolidated Staff Headcount*3 31,534 31,986 32,753 33,038 34,003 Persons Ground Staff 23,093 23,367 24,055 23,828 24,295 Persons Bodies directly Number of Cockpit Crew 2,446 2,519 2,570 2,629 2,690 Persons meetings controlled by Topics discussed Composition (Fiscal year Cabin Attendants 5,995 6,100 6,128 6,581 7,018 Persons the President 2018) Management The Management Committee is a body established by the A forum for discussion attended by the President, Vice President, Senior Managing Average age 38.3 37.4 38.2 38.6 39.1 Years old Committee Company for the purpose of contributing to appropriate and ESG Management flexible decision-making by the Board of Directors and the Executive Officers, Managing Executive Officers, other Directors, and Audit & 40 Ground Staff 38.7 37.7 38.6 38.9 39.5 Years old Supervisory Board Members. President. Cockpit Crew 42.7 41.1 43.8 44.1 44.0 Years old Group This body is tasked with ensuring safe flight operations across Cabin Attendants 35.1 35.0 34.9 35.6 35.4 Years old Council the Group and promoting safety management, in line with Safety General Manager for Japan Airlines, chairperson, vice chairperson, council for Safety the Group’s principles and policies. The council determines key members. The chairperson (president) can call Full-time Adviser and Related 12 Ratio of Men 53.2 52.3 52.5 51.6 50.2 ％ Enhancement policies related to safety management, clarifies the status of Managers and ask for opinions. Audit & Supervisory Board Members can attend ％ General management systems and regularly overhauls those systems, and express opinions. Ratio of Women 46.8 47.7 47.5 48.4 49.8 and addresses day-to-day flight safety issues. Meeting Managerial Staff 15.9 16.0 15.9 15.8 15.5 ％ Risk President, Vice President, General Manager of Managing Division Route Marketing, Management General Manager of Product / Service Planning, General Manager of Managing Division General Staff 84.1 84.0 84.1 84.2 84.5 ％ Council Passenger Sales, General Manager of Cargo & Mail, General Manager of Corporate The Council takes responsibility for overall risk management Ratio of Disabled Staff*4 2.04 2.28 2.56 2.69 2.69 ％ Safety & Security, General Manager of Operations, General Manager of Flight Operations, — Financial Data/ Corporate Information to stabilize Group-wide management activities. It also Ratio of Female Managers 15.1 15.6 16.3 16.3 16.8 ％ General Manager of Engineering & Maintenance, General Manager of Cabin Attendants, (Established makes decisions in relation to establishing the JAL Group General Manager of Airport Operations, General Manager of Corporate Control, General Basic Policies on Risk Management, conducts regular risk from Manager of Finance & Accounting Division, General Manager of Human Resources, investigations, takes measures when risks eventuate, and Training Period per Person*2 60.2 62.8 66.4 64.7 70.8 Hours/Person manages BCP. General Manager of Procurement, General Manager of Corporate Planning, General FY2019) Training Cost per Person*2 318,249 380,997 403,519 422,187 470,698 Yen/Person Manager of Innovation Promotion, General Manager of IT Planning, General Manager of Communication Division, General Manager of Secretary’s Office, General Manager of General Affairs. Audit & Supervisory Board Members also attend the Council. Childcare Leave Applicants*5 779 782 781 843 789 Persons Corporate The Corporate Brand Promotion Council is tasked with Nursing Care Leave Applicants*5 51 42 65 89 68 Persons Brand improving corporate brand (corporate value) based on the President, Brand Communication / Tokyo 2020 Olympic and Paralympic Promotion Promotion JAL Group Corporate Policy and strategies, clarifying the Department Director, Executive Officers and Presidents of Group airlines nominated status of corporate activities, managing the progress of by the chairperson. The chairperson can call the suitable person according to the 12 Ratio of Local Hires at Overseas Offices 90.8 90.4 89.9 88.4 89.8 ％ Council each measure, and sharing information to strengthen the agenda. Ratio of Locally Hired Managerial Staff at Overseas Offices 62.8 60.8 61.9 58.4 64.0 ％ corporate brand. JAL Chairman, President, Vice President, General Manager of Managing Division Route Average Years of Continuous Service 14.4 13.9 14.2 14.5 14.7 Years Philosophy Marketing, General Manager of Managing Division Passenger Sales, General Manager of Council JAL Philosophy Council is tasked with promoting the JAL Cargo & Mail, General Manager of Flight Operations, General Manager of Engineering Philosophy. It is responsible for developing basic policies for & Maintenance, General Manager of Cabin Attendants, General Manager of Airport Community Contribution initiatives, planning and implementing related measures and Operations, General Manager of General Affairs, General Manager of Human Resources, 4 Participation in Voluntary Activities*2 — 1,705 2,169 6,826 8,140 Persons evaluating the impact of those measures. General Manager of Corporate Control, General Manager of Communication Division, Total Hours of Voluntary Activities*2 — 30,000 14,063 59,551 68,288 Hours General Manager of Safety & Security Division, General Manager of Operation Division. The chairperson (president) can call the suitable person according to the agenda. *1 A irports, Offices, Maintenance Centers (Japan) Group Earnings The purpose of The Group Earnings Announcement Directors, Honorary advisor, Chairman, Vice Chairman, President, Executive *2 Past data have been revised in accordance with improvements made in the accuracy of data collection. Announcement Session is to share the“performance” of each company and department of the JAL Group and to consider ways to Officers, Area Managers, Presidents of major subsidiaries, Audit & Supervisory 12 *3 The number of employees until fiscal year 2016 excluded employees planning to retire as of the end of March that fiscal year, but since fiscal year 2017, the number Session Board Members. Members can include the suitable person as needed. of employees has included these employees and excluded temporary employees (from temporary staffing companies). improve the performance. *4 As of June 1 of the year following each fiscal year. Combined data for Japan Airlines Co., Ltd. and its special subsidiary JAL Sunlight Co., Ltd. Management Chairman, President, Vice President, Senior Managing Executive Officers, Managing The Management Liaison Committee monitors the progress *5 Japan Airlines Co., Ltd. only Liaison of management projects and shares information. Executive Officers, Executive Officers (excluding group airline charge and district charge). 22 Committee The chairperson (president) can call the suitable person according to the agenda. 118 119 INTERNATIONAL ROUTE MAP (As of June 28, 2019) Flight destinations overseas: 350 cities (Including code-share flights) Message from the President Walla Walla Hamburg Stockholm Wenatchee Edmonton Des Moines Reykjavik Prince George Oklahoma City Newcastle Billund Copenhagen Kaliningrad Kittila Kelowna Calgary Omaha Kansas City Dublin Whitehorse Dusseldorf Gothenburg Bellingham Spokane Minneapolis Tulsa Manchester Luxembourg Ivalo Terrace Wichita Madison Belfast Oslo Ketchikan Amsterdam Rovaniemi Juneau Milwaukee Oulu Pullman Great Falls Glasgow Brussels Tallinn Fairbanks Kalispell Chicago Toledo Moscow Bozeman Edinburgh St. Petersburg Yellowknife Missoula Peoria Jackson Detroit Helsinki Bloomington Aberdeen Riga Toronto Anchorage Grand Rapids Vilnius Salt Lake City Cleveland Khabarovsk Kalamazoo Ottawa Nizhny Novgorod Denver Buffalo Winnipeg Rochester Warsaw Montreal Yekaterinburg Burlington Business Activities and Strategy Berlin Hannover Ufa Chelyabinsk Novosibirsk Syracuse London Prague Samara Perm Omsk Columbus Paris Budapest Volgograd Irkutsk Shenyang Pittsburgh Basel Nizhnekamsk Vladivostok Vancouver Portland Vienna Rostov Lyon Kazan Victoria Newark Frankfurt Dalian Seoul Boston La Coruna Krasnodar Hartford Munich Sochi Seattle Santiago de Bucharest Yantai Yakima New York Compostela Baku Fuzhou Pasco Philadelphia Istanbul Beijing Vigo Xiamen Harrisburg Portland Oviedo Stuttgart Ankara Xi'an Tianjin Japan Baltimore Chongqing Redmond Porto Zagreb Qingdao Busan Dayton Eugene Lisbon Dubrovnik Chiang Rai Boise Washington JAL REPORT 2019 Jeju Madrid Malta Athens Medford Reno Richmond Mandalay Kunming Nanjing Indianapolis Venice Amman Chiang Mai Wuhan Shanghai Sacramento Chengdu Cincinnati Tenerife Milan Santa Rosa Bologna Nay Pyi Taw Norfolk Nice San Francisco Lexington Gran Canaria Rome Kolkata Hangzhou Geneva Mammoth Lakes Evansville Doha Dubai Delhi Guangzhou Marseille Zurich Shenzhen Taipei Palm Springs San Jose Las Vegas Raleigh Durham Sevilla Fresno Greensboro Burbank Dallas Barcelona Ahmadabad Yangon Hanoi Tainan ESG Management Los Angeles Louisville Sao Paulo Toulouse Mumbai Ontario Knoxville Malaga Kaohsiung Charlotte Pune Long Beach Bilbao Hong Kong Santa Ana Greenville Hyderabad Chennai Guam San Diego Columbia Bangkok Manila Phoenix Orlando Bangalore Charleston Luang Prabang Addis Ababa Colombo Phuket Tucson Nashville Vientiane Hermosillo Atlanta Male Siem Reap Da Nang Lihue Nairobi Albuquerque Savannah Langkawi Phnom Penh Honolulu Ciudad Obregon St. Louis Ho Chi Minh City Los Mochis Miami Penang Kahului Huntsville Kuantan El Paso Fort Lauderdale Kota Kinabalu Kona Ciudad Juarez San Juan Jacksonville Kuala Lumpur West Palm Beach Birmingham Dar es Salaam Samui Hilo Chihuahua La Paz Fort Myers Memphis Krabi San Jose del Cabo Culiacan Singapore Jakarta Tampa North West Arkansas Fortaleza Paris Financial Data/ Corporate Information Durango Yogyakarta Little Rock Monterrey Frankfurt Denpasar Cancun Surabaya Puerto Vallarta Salvador Kuching Nadi Pensacola Recife London Johannesburg Guadalajara Cairns Merida Manzanillo Brasilia Durban New Orleans Manaus Aguascalientes Cape Town Brisbane Papeete Nuevo Laredo Belo Horizonte Leon Reynosa Campeche Lima Gold Coast San Luis Potosi Ciudad del Carmen Campo Grande Queretaro Londrina Perth Auckland Ixtapa Zihuatanejo San Antonio Iguazu Sydney Tampico Austin Santiago Mexico City Houston Tapachula Melbourne Acapulco Villahermosa Veracruz Tuxtla Gutierrez Oaxaca Port Alegre Curitiba Sao Paulo Rio De Janeiro • The routes above include code-share flights. • The map has been altered to highlight the cities on JAL’s route network. • Broken lines ( ) are one-way routes. 120 121 DOMESTIC ROUTE MAP STOCK INFORMATION / CORPORATE INFORMATION (As of June 28, 2019) (As of March 31, 2019) Flight destinations in Japan: 56 cities Stock Information (Including code-share flights) • Stock Exchange The First Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange • Total number of shares to be issued 750 million (Common stock) (700 million) • Stock Code 9201 • The routes below are operated as code-share flights with Fuji Dream (Class 1 Preferred stock) (12.5 million) Airlines Co., Ltd. (FDA) using FDA aircraft and crew: Sapporo (New • Number of Shares Per Unit 100 shares (Class 2 Preferred stock) (12.5 million) Chitose) = Yamagata, Sapporo (New Chitose) = Matsumoto, Sapporo • Account closing date March 31 (Class 3 Preferred stock) (12.5 million) Rishiri (Okadama) = Matsumoto, Sapporo (Okadama) = Shizuoka, Yamagata (Class 4 Preferred stock) (12.5 million) = Nagoya (Komaki), Sendai = Izumo, Niigata = Nagoya (Komaki), • Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders June each year Message from the President Niigata = Fukuoka, Matsumoto = Fukuoka, Shizuoka = Izumo, Shizuoka Asahikawa • Date of Finalizing Shareholders Eligible to Exercise Voting Rights • Outstanding Issued Shares = Fukuoka, Shizuoka = Kitakyushu, Shizuoka = Kagoshima, Nagoya (Center of Hokkaido) Memanbetsu at the Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders March 31 Common stock 349,028,700 (Number of shares per unit: 100) (Komaki) = Izumo, Nagoya (Komaki) = Kochi, Nagoya (Komaki) = Number of Shareholders 144,308 Fukuoka, and Nagoya (Komaki) = Kumamoto. Sapporo Kushiro • Date of record for dividend September 30 and March 31 (Okadama) Obihiro (Tokachi Obihiro) (Tancho Kushiro) * T he total number of shares issued as of May 23, 2018 was • The routes below are operated as code-share Sapporo • Shareholder Registry Administrator 349,028,700 shares, a decline of 4,687,100 shares due to retirement of (New Chitose) flights with Amakusa Airlines Co., Ltd. (AMX)  Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation treasury stock as resolved at the meeting of the Board of Directors held using AMX aircraft and crew: Fukuoka = Amakusa • Date of record for dividend  September 30 and March 31 on April 27, 2018 and Kumamoto = Amakusa. Okushiri Hakodate * Some flights on the Osaka (Itami) = Kumamoto • Shareholder Registry Administrator • Major Shareholders route are also code-share flights with AMX.  Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation * Some routes are not operated in certain Percentage of Shares seasons. Aomori • Contact Number of Shareholders Name Against Total Number Stock Transfer Agency Department shares Misawa of Issued Shares (%) Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation Business Activities and Strategy 1-1, Nikko-cho, Fuchu-shi, Tokyo, Japan The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. Akita 22,807,800 6.53 Hanamaki Mailing address: ShinTokyo Post Office Post-office box no.29 (Trust account) (Iwate Hanamaki) Phone: 0120-232-711(toll free (Only within Japan)) Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. Open: 9:00 am to 5:00 pm except Sat, Sun and public holidays 17,048,300 4.88 Yamagata (Trust account) (Oishii Yamagata) (Japan time) Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. Website: www.tr.mufg.jp/daikou/ (only in Japanese) 11,320,600 3.24 Niigata Sendai (Trust account 9) • Method of official announcement Kyocera Corporation 7,638,400 2.18 Electronic public notice at: URL www.jal.com/ja/corporate/publicnotices/ (only in Japanese) Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. 6,803,600 1.95 JAL REPORT 2019 Provided, however, that if the electronic notice cannot be made due (Trust account 5) Oki (Oki Island Global Geopark) Komatsu Matsumoto to an accident or any unavoidable reason, the public notice shall be STATE STREET BANK AND TRUST Tokyo (Shinshu Matsumoto) (Narita) published in the Nihon Keizai Shimbun. 5,067,600 1.45 Tajima COMPANY 505001 (Kounotori Tajima) Tokyo • Limitation on listing or recording of Citizens of Foreign Izumo (Haneda) Daiwa Securities Group Inc. 5,000,000 1.43 (Izumo Enmusubi) Nagoya (Komaki) Countries and Other Persons in Register of Shareholders and Nagoya Shizuoka Register of Beneficial Shareholders Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. Osaka 4,529,400 1.29 ESG Management Okayama (Chubu) (Mt.Fuji Shizuoka) (Okayama Momotaro) (Itami) The Articles of Incorporation lay down the following provision (Trust account 1) Hiroshima Osaka(Kansai) Yamaguchi Ube concerning the Civil Aeronautics Act, Article 120-2. Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. Takamatsu Tokushima 4,203,000 1.20 Matsuyama (Tokushima Awaodori) Article 12. Limitation on listing or recording of Citizens of Foreign Countries and Other Persons (Trust account 2) Fukuoka Kitakyushu in Register of Shareholders and Register of Beneficial Shareholders 12.1 If the Oita Kochi Nanki Shirahama Company receives from a person, who falls into one of the categories listed in the Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. Kumamoto (Kochi Ryoma) items below, a request for listing or recording his or her name and address in the 3,904,000 1.11 Nagasaki (Aso Kumamoto) (Trust account 7) register of shareholders (including the register of beneficial shareholders; hereinafter Amakusa the same), and if the acceptance of such request causes the total voting rights owned by persons, who fall into one of the categories listed in the items below, to Miyazaki (Miyazaki Bougainvillea) represent one-third or more of the Company’s total voting rights, the Company shall Kagoshima refuse such listing or recording. (1) A person who does not have Japanese citizenship (2) A foreign country, foreign public body or similar entity (3) A corporation or other organization established under foreign laws and regulations Company Profile Financial Data/ Corporate Information Tanegashima (Cosmoport Tanegashima) 2.When the Company intends to list or record all shares held by any of the shareholders listed in the items of the following paragraph, upon notification from Corporate Name Japan Airlines Co., Ltd. Yakushima a book-entry institution in accordance with Article 151. Paragraph (1) or (8) of the Act on Book-Entry Transfer of Company Bonds, Shares, etc., and thereby the total Headquarters Nomura Real Estate Bldg., 2-4-11 number of voting rights held by such persons listed in the items of the preceding Higashi-Shinagawa, Shinagawa-ku, Tokyo paragraph will account for more than a third of the Company’s voting rights, the Company shall list or record such shareholders in the register of shareholders in 140-8637, Japan accordance with measures provided for in the Ordinance of the Ministry of Land, Amami-Oshima Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism to list or record only a part of the shares so Phone: +81 (0)3-5460-3121 Kikaijima that the total number of voting rights held by such shareholders in the items of the Website: www.jal.com/en Tokunoshima preceding paragraph accounts for less than a third of the Company’s voting rights. (Tokunoshima Kodakara) • Transition of share price and trading volume Established August 1, 1951 Okinoerabu （Yen） Representative (Erabuyurinoshima) Share price Trading volume (Million shares) Yoron 5,000 (Left axis) (Right axis) 100 Director, Yuji Akasaka Kita-Daito Executive President Kumejima Okinawa (Naha) Minami-Daito 4,000 80 Capital 181,352 million yen Employees Consolidated Employees 34,003 people Tarama 3,000 60 Employees 12,750 people Miyako Yonaguni Ishigaki (Painushima Ishigaki) 2,000 40 Capital and 355,845 million yen Paid-in Capital (Amount is rounded down to the nearest million yen) 1,000 20 Businesses 1. Scheduled and non-scheduled air transport services 0 0 2. Aerial work services April April April April April 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 3. Other related business 122 123 日本航空株式会社 Japan Airlines Co., Ltd. 財務部 Finance・ブランドエンゲージメント推進部 Department, Brand Engagement Promotion Department 〒140-8637 Nomura Real Estate Building, 2-4-11 Higashi-Shinagawa, Shinagawa-ku, Tokyo 140-8637, Japan 東京都品川区東品川二丁目4番11号 Tel.: +81 (0)3-5460-3121 野村不動産天王洲ビル TEL:03-5460-3121 Corporate website ホームページ https://www.jal.com/en/ www.jal.co.jp Corporate 企業情報 information https://www.jal.com/en/outline/ www.jal.com/ja/outline/ CSR information www.jal.com/ja/csr/ CSR情報 https://www.jal.com/en/csr/ 投資家情報 Investor Relationswww.jal.com/ja/investor/ https://www.jal.com/en/investor/
