ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Temenos AG Overview Welcome WHAT’S INSIDE THIS REPORT OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Chairman’s statement 02 Business and financial review 34 Report of the statutory auditor Our market opportunity 04 Principal risks and uncertainties 42 on the consolidated financial statements 122 Our investment case 06 Consolidated statement of profit or loss 126 Consolidated statement Highlights of the year 07 OPERATING RESPONSIBLY of other comprehensive income 127 Industry recognition 08 Consolidated statement Acquisitions in 2018 09 of financial position 128 Message from the CEO 52 Software 10 Consolidated statement Our CSR approach 54 of cash flows 129 Our solutions 11 Achieving business excellence 57 Consolidated statement Products 12 Operating responsibly 59 of changes in equity 130 Technology 16 Investing in our people 66 Notes to the consolidated Sectors 18 Enabling access to financial services 75 financial statements 131 Insights – thought leadership 20 Investing in our communities 76 Report of the statutory auditor on Research and development 22 the unconsolidated financial statements 177 About this report 80 Delivering client success 28 Unconsolidated balance sheet 179 Independent assurance report 81 Insights – 11th annual banking survey 31 Unconsolidated income statement 180 UN Global Compact index 82 Notes to the unconsolidated GRI content index 83 financial statements 181 Financial highlights 187 GOVERNANCE Information for investors 188 APPENDIX Board of Directors 90 Executive Committee 92 Temenos worldwide offices 189 Corporate governance 94 Sources 193 Compensation Report 104 Report of the statutory auditor on the Compensation Report 119 Read more on our website Read more in our CSR Report Read more in our Annual Review Read more on our website Read more on See the separate www.temenos.com page 50 book Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements TEMENOS AT A GLANCE 500m end customers rely on Temenos software OUR VISION To provide financial institutions, of any size, anywhere in the world, the software to thrive in the digital banking age 150+ countries with Temenos clients HOW WE ACHIEVE IT 3,000+ We do this by building, delivering and supporting the world’s best packaged, continuously upgradeable end-to-end banking software which is both cloud native and cloud agnostic; through design led thinking, financial institutions use Temenos software we orchestrate all our customers’ touchpoints to create a frictionless customer journey TEMENOS IS THE BANKING SOFTWARE COMPANY Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 01 Overview Chairman’s statement 25 YEARS OF INNOVATION IN TECHNOLOGY It is with great pleasure that we We continued to win most, if not all, the strategic deals in the market and continued to demonstrate present our Annual Report for unparalleled progress and success with our “We will continue to have a sense 2018 to our shareholders. implementations. Our superior growth, as well as of purpose and do business while the scale of our business, allows us to invest more In November 2018 Temenos celebrated its 25th aggressively than our competitors, providing our clients we help our world become a anniversary. Temenos became 25 years old, or with a superior platform and a partnership model better place.“ rather young as we prefer to think about it. In the that has stood the test of time based on upgradeable past 25 years we established Temenos as the leader packaged software. in banking software and made it synonymous with banking software. We support more than 3,000 banks During 2018 we focused our effort and investments We will continue to have a sense of purpose and do worldwide in conducting their daily business and amongst other things on strengthening our digital front business while we help our world become a better servicing their customers and other stakeholders. office product with the acquisition of Avoka, a leading place. Whether it is helping the two billion people that US-based software company in the area of customer are unbanked to access banking services, or helping It has been 25 years full of successes, full of passion for onboarding for banks and financial institutions. With the our communities where we do business, while providing what we do, industry firsts in product and technology support of the Avoka team we will be able to compete equal opportunity for all and creating an environment and relentless growth in revenues and of course more effectively and deliver more complete and exciting that promotes human endeavor and assists our people profitability. In the 25 years we have had our fair share solutions to our clients. to achieve their aspirations. of challenges and disappointments, but even those events have only served to strengthen our resolve and I feel that the business opportunity ahead of us is more Our business is about building relationships, with all our character with key learnings that remain with us today. significant than it has ever been, our target market stakeholders, our clients, our Partners, our shareholders In those 25 years, we navigated three of the largest is estimated to be USD 57 billion and we are in the and between us Temenosians. The fundamental trust financial crises the world has ever experienced – the dot enviable position of leading our market and therefore we have created between our clients and Temenos com crisis in 2001, the financial crisis in 2008 and the have the chance to deliver against this opportunity. will continue to be the cornerstone of how we conduct Euro crisis in 2011/2012, only for Temenos to come Technology is rapidly changing consumer behavior and business. Our passion for innovation and for seeing out of each one of those periods stronger and better in turn this changes the way people would like to interact things differently will ensure that we continue to develop placed to compete in the marketplace. with their banks. The customers of banks increasingly winning products for our clients. Our determination, demand a full digital experience, innovative services resolve, integrity, commitment, people focus and Application software companies that make it to 25 years with instant gratification and a user experience equal never-give-up attitude will ensure we remain the and are able to keep growing their revenues at the to the standards already set by the global technology leading banking software company and overcome any pace we do, usually continue to become the giants of companies. Open Banking initiatives, starting in challenges that may lie ahead of us. At Temenos, even their target markets. There are two or three key reasons Europe, are already resulting in a far more competitive after 25 years, we have the energy and enthusiasm of a why this is the case. Technology cycles are incredibly market place for banking services. Fintech companies, start-up and we deal with every day as if it is our first day fast. Building business functionality to run the worlds’ banks and technology players are now able to take in the Company. premier organizations takes much longer to do. This advantage of Open Banking initiatives to deliver real means that software companies that are not able to time, personalized services to their customers that are Influencing the way banking is carried out for the 21st dramatically change their technology while protecting relevant and contextual. Banks all over the world are century continues to be our end goal, one that guides business functionality, usually run out of steam and stop scrambling to take advantage of the opportunities that our daily endeavors. With more than 3,000 banking growing after 10 years or so. As a result, they cannot technology provides and put their customers’ trust to clients in over 150 countries worldwide, we are well continue to invest aggressively, build client successes work for the next generation and they expect us to be on our way to doing so. With a local investment mindor Partner ecosystems. In fact we can only think of less their partner in this journey. set, we hope we also successfully contribute to the than ten software companies that after 25 years could economies of the world where our clients do business. still exhibit our level of growth and each one of those As market leaders we see ourselves as the catalyst for The success of all who are involved with Temenos, be it companies ended up taking the lion’s share of their the acceleration in this conversion. We do have the clients, shareholders, Partners or employees, will always target market. best software in the world and would like to ensure that underpin the positive development of our business. our clients deploy this software rapidly, predictably and As Max explains in his report, we had another efficiently for their use. We will increasingly bring 25 outstanding year with record growth in our revenues years of Temenos functionality to different consumption and profitability. Our revenue continues to accelerate. models, developing in the morning and deploying in the 2018 was particularly exciting as we saw broad based afternoon, whether this is on premise or in the cloud, and demand for our products, from the largest to the smallest we are well on our way towards achieving this. By the banks, across all regions, whether in core, wealth, time you read this, we will have launched our two new payments, front office or fund management. Software as products Temenos T24 Transact for the back office and Andreas Andreades a service and cloud deployment is starting to come of Temenos Infinity for the front office which I expect will Executive Chairman age in the banking world and we have now started to become the standard in banking software for the next see spectacular growth in this segment. 25 years. 02 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements OUR VALUES We see things differently from We believe in the power We operate responsibly to build everyone else of people a sustainable business Average people see difficulties, People make things happen. People We walk the extra mile to build strong exceptional people see opportunities. define our destiny. and lasting relationships with our stakeholders and create sustainable Read more on page 20 Read more on page 66 value for them. Read more on page 50 We inspire, through living up We place clients at the core of to our full potential what we do We dream big and pursue our Everything starts and ends with our goals fearlessly. clients’ goals. Read more on page 24 Read more on page 28 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 03 Overview Our market opportunity A GLOBAL OPPORTUNITY OFFICES IN THE TOTAL REVENUE TOTAL SOFTWARE EUROPE REGION LICENSING REVENUE 22 45% 44% ASIA PACIFIC 19 19% 18% AMERICAS 15 19% 21% MIDDLE EAST AND AFRICA 04 8 17% 17% Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements KEY INDUSTRY TRENDS CLOUD A number of technology trends BIG DATA The use of remote computing resources to host software are driving change across Banks have vast quantities of uniquely valuable data on and data is driving down the total cost of ownership and their customers, however they are only just starting to use reducing risk for incumbents as well as lowering barriers the banking landscape and analytics to leverage this as a competitive advantage. to entry for new entrants to banking. influencing the approach banks Banks have the potential to improve customer service, take to their IT renovation. increase product penetration and reduce risk. AI/MACHINE BLOCKCHAIN LEARNING The rise of new technologies such as distributed ledgers The move to utilizing AI and Machine Learning in both may present an important opportunity for banks in the interacting with customers, for example through robofuture. Banks need to ensure they are using modern, advisors and chat bots, and in risk and compliance, open IT platforms in order to take advantage of improves customer service and satisfaction whilst also emerging technologies. reducing cost and risk. APIs MOBILE The move to Open Banking is both a risk and an Banking has seen exponential growth in the number opportunity for banks. There is increasing pressure on of interactions and transactions taking place through banks to support interfaces that allows third parties to mobile devices. Banks need to ensure they can provide access their customer data, equally banks with modern, their customers a complete banking service with minimal open IT platforms are better able to take advantage of friction. Those banks with the best mobile service will be third party innovation to improve their customer service. able to better attract, retain and cross-sell products to their clients. Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 05 Overview Our investment case WHAT MAKES TEMENOS UNIQUE SAME SOFTWARE, ANY BANK, ANYWHERE IN THE WORLD Software We supply the same software to all of our clients – regardless of their size and location. There are optional modules within this which a bank can choose from, but we produce the same software for all our clients. PACKAGED, INTEGRATED & INDEPENDENT Product We make our products packaged, integrated and upgradeable. Our products are designed to work separately and together and, once installed, be upgraded as new versions of the software are released. This means that our clients benefit from our ongoing investment in the product which has created the richest banking functionality in the market. STABLE BUSINESS MODEL ; WE BELIEVE THAT THERE COMMITTED COMMUNITY ARE FIVE KEY AREAS THAT Stability MAKE TEMENOS UNIQUE Temenos has a stable business model, shown in the strength of our financial results and also by the long tenure of the management team. We benefit from a strong and committed ecosystem of Partners working closely with us. CONTINUOUS & FASTER DEPLOYMENT Implementation With advanced and automated tools and methodology, the testing and deployment of change means banks can reduce their release cycles from months to hours enabling them to roll-out new applications at speed. Temenos invests both in its own staff and implementation tooling, as well as working with its Partners to build a large ecosystem of implementation capability outside of the Group. RELENTLESS FOCUS ON INNOVATION Innovation Temenos has a long history of investing in its products. This has ensured our position as the leading solution in our sector and, together with the upgradeability, means that clients can continue to enjoy the benefits of our industry leading investment in the future. 06 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Highlights of the year ANOTHER YEAR OF SUCCESS TOTAL SOFTWARE LICENSING 2018 NON-IFRS FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS Read more USD 383m > Total software licensing revenue growth of 21% on page 38 2018 2017 USD 316m > Maintenance revenue growth of 12% > Total revenue growth of 15% +21% > Services margin of 11.5%, improvement of 1.9 percentage points > EBIT margin of 31.5%, up 1.1 percentage points > Operating cash flows of USD 365 million, up 22% MAINTENANCE > Operating cash conversion of 117% with DSOs down five days in the year 2018 USD 308m > Strength of cash flows and growth in profit support 2018 dividend of CHF 2017 USD 275m 0.75 per share, an increase of 15% (2017: CHF 0.65 per share). +12% 2018 OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS Read more > Outstanding performance in 2018 with broad based demand across on page 34 TOTAL REVENUE geographies and tiers > Digital and regulatory pressures and move to Open Banking are driving 2018 USD 847m market growth 2017 USD 737m > Strong incremental growth in demand for SaaS and cloud adoption, +15% exceeding our expectations > Temenos sees growing appetite for large institutions to optimize delivery through cloud EBIT MARGIN > Strong momentum in the US market with two strategically important deals 31.5% signed with a top tier US bank for visionary front office replacement and 2018 30.3% PayPal, Inc. for loan management in the cloud 2017 > Temenos won a total of 76 new clients in 2018 with competitive deals 31.5% > contributing 40% of total software licensing in the year Continued high levels of activity with Tier 1 and 2 banks which contributed 53% of total software licensing in 2018 OPERATING CASH FLOW CONVERSION > Temenos is the market leader, raising barriers to entry and pulling ahead 2018 USD 365m of the competition 2017 USD 300m > We started 2019 with very high levels of revenue visibility and a strong pipeline, driven by recurring revenue, committed spend and our installed base 117% > There are now over 5,000 third party Temenos consultants, with a critical mass of experts available to support clients across implementation, testing and training. EARNINGS PER SHARE 2018 USD 2.96 2017 USD 2.45 +21% DIVIDEND PER SHARE 2018 CHF 0.75 2017 CHF 0.65 +15% Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 07 Overview Industry recognition A MARKET LEADER 9 th Gartner1 > Recognized as a Leader for the 9th consecutive time in ‘Magic Quadrant for Global Retail Core Banking.’ Forrester 2 > Leader in Forrester Wave for global digital banking platforms and digital banking engagement platforms. > Classed “Global Power Seller” for new business for Recognized as a Leader nine consecutive the 13th consecutive year and “Top Global Player” times1 in Gartner Magic Quadrant for for new and existing business deals for Global Retail Core Banking 7th consecutive year. 13 yrs Ovum3 > “Market Leader” in core banking and “Market Leader” in digital banking platforms. > “Market Challenger” in Anti-Financial Crime solutions. IBS Intelligence4 > Ranked bestselling core banking system for the Classed “Global Power Seller” for new last seven years and top two positions for the past business2 19 consecutive years. > Ranked bestselling digital banking and channels 7 system. Celent5 > Awarded ‘2018 XCelent Award’ for Client Service and Client Base’ for CRM Technology Vendors for Wealth management. yrs International Data Corporation6 > Recognized as a ‘Leader’ for Know Your Customer (KYC) Solutions in Financial Services and as a ‘Major Ranked best selling core banking system4 Player’ for Anti-Money Laundering (AML) Solutions in Financial Services. Recognized as a Leader in global core banking, European mobile banking and wealth management front and middle office. FS Tech Awards 20187 > Awarded “Payment Innovation of the Year”. 1 The Gartner Report(s) described herein, (the “Gartner Report(s)”) represent(s) research opinion or viewpoints published, as part of a syndicated subscription service, by Gartner, Inc. (“Gartner”), and are not representations of fact. Each Gartner Report speaks as of its original publication date (and not as of the date of this Annual Report) and the opinions expressed in the Gartner Report(s) are subject to change without notice. Gartner, ‘Magic Quadrant for Global Retail Core Banking’, Gartner, Vittorio D’Orazio, Don Free, June 2018. Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in its research publications, and does not advise technology users to select only those vendors with the highest ratings or other designation. Gartner research publications consist of the opinions of Gartner’s research organization and should not be construed as statements of fact. Gartner disclaims all warranties, expressed or implied, with respect to this research, including any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. 08 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Acquisitions in 2018 STRATEGIC ACQUISITIONS AND INVESTMENTS 245 m 2018 was a very exciting year Avoka has more than 85 customers that are largely served through a SaaS model hosted in the cloud, for Temenos, with one strategic and serves all key banking segments including retail, investment and one acquisition corporate and wealth. Founded in Australia, its customer completed, both of which have base has grown most rapidly with both top tier and mid-market banks with clients in the US, Europe and a material impact on our R&D Australia. With over 270 employees in offices across roadmaps and ability to provide the US, UK and Australia, Avoka is purpose-built Avoka purchased for USD 245 million our clients with cloud native, for creating omni-channel customer acquisition and 85 onboarding solutions that enable banks to create simple cloud agnostic products. customer-friendly experiences that improve conversion rates. Avoka customer successes include a top tier bank In November, Temenos announced it had taken a which increased new account openings by 60% and minority stake in NuoDB, an enterprise-class distributed shortened customer time to onboard by nearly 70%, SQL database provider, as well as entering into a while another major bank created an advisor-assisted, Technology Partner Agreement. This partnership gives tablet-based loan application, from kickoff to launch in the global banking community greater choice of 60 days. next generation cloud & Container-Native database technologies that are able to run the Temenos banking Digital customers accustomed to a one-click retail Avoka customers software products. It also further strengthens Temenos 270 experience expect the same from their bank and through open strategy to work with all database vendors that are Avoka, banks have been able to create fast and simple able to answer the demands of scalability in the cloud. account opening and onboarding experiences resulting Banks of all sizes around the globe are migrating more in significant reductions in abandon rates and increased of their banking applications to the cloud and benefiting cross-sales. Avoka’s innovative technology has won from significant speed, agility and performance numerous awards, including the 2018 Celent Model improvements. Temenos and NuoDB have both been Bank for Commercial Account Onboarding with HSBC, at the forefront of cloud innovation and this partnership The Banker’s Tech Project Awards 2018 with HSBC will make it significantly easier for banks to migrate for the compliance category, The Banker’s Tech Project critical applications to the cloud while maintaining their Awards 2018 with Citi for delivery channels, the 2017 Avoka employees across end-user experience and benefiting from significant Banking Technology Awards as well as the Australian US, UK and Australia operational cost savings. Business Banking Awards 2017 with Bankwest. In December, Temenos acquired Avoka, a US-based leader in digital customer acquisition and onboarding. The Avoka platform has been integrated with Temenos Infinity, our market-leading digital front office which provides banks with a comprehensive single solution for their omni-channel digital banking needs. Temenos purchased Avoka for USD 245 million. Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 09 Overview Software COMPREHENSIVE, CLOUD NATIVE, CLOUD AGNOSTIC OPEN TEMENOS CORE BANK BANKING PRODUCTS ECOSYSTEM Digital Front Office Third party developers TEMENOS INFINITY Bank Peripheral APIs APIs APIs Systems Core Banking Third party providers TEMENOS T24 TRANSACT Client runs software Temenos runs software On-premise Cloud Temenos SaaS Temenos’ software solutions TEMENOS INFINITY TEMENOS T24 TRANSACT are centered around two main Temenos Infinity is an independent digital banking solution which focuses on customer engagement across Temenos T24 Transact is the market leading core banking solution which incorporates the broadest and packages; Temenos Infinity and all channels by means of an integrated “conversational deepest set of functionality available in the market. Temenos T24 Transact. banking” customer engagement module, cutting edge Temenos has invested in expanding the functionality digital customer acquisition and onboarding functionality of the product for over 25 years which, when allied Both of these are available as independently deployable and an integrated product origination capability. with policy of producing standard packaged software, solutions, together with several other more specialist provides a functional footprint which is without parallel packages described in the following pages. Their value It can be deployed on any combination of back office in the industry. to clients is, however, increased when they are deployed systems by means of its open API framework and definitions in a quick and cost effective manner, allowing This functional richness is further supported by an together to form and end-to-end digital banking solution. extensive set of country model banks. This combination All of the software solutions enjoy the benefit of continuing access to all of the underlying product manufacturing and servicing capabilities which those platforms offer. of global product capability, off-the-shelf regional functional investment by Temenos, ensuring that Temenos’ functionality and the underlying flexibility of the product clients can access the latest banking functionality as well Even greater benefit can be gained when the solution is deployed with Temenos T24 Transact as the bank enables banks to implement the solution in a cost effective as the legacy of many years of functional enhancements manner and to continue to innovate, and to deploy these which have been packaged into the products. can then make use of the end-to-end product design and distribution capabilities to gain large benefits in innovations, at speed and on an efficient economic basis. All of Temenos’ software packages can be deployed the areas of customer insight and new product The cloud native and cloud agnostic capabilities which natively on the main commercial cloud platforms; go-to-market agility. underpin the product also enable banks to operate it at this means that they take the full benefit of the lower scale in an elastic and agile manner. operating costs and elastic scalability of these services, as well as enjoying in-built operational resilience. They are also available on a continuous deployment basis which enables banks to reduce the cost of implementation and maintenance by the use of modern DevOps approaches and technology, as well as making it faster for banks to deploy innovations into their live operating environments and hence to enjoy a shorter time to market. 10 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Our solutions Temenos software forms an end-to-end digital banking solution which is cloud native and SOLUTIONS cloud agnostic. It is comprehensive in its coverage and includes a huge depth and breadth of functionality. Temenos organizes PRODUCTS its products into six Read more page 12 key areas reflecting the needs of its customers. Technology is strategy. We say this because our Technology products and frameworks make banks TECHNOLOGY more agile, competitive Read more page 16 and profitable, and help them thrive in complex, margin-pressured environments. Temenos offers software SECTORS solutions to banks and Read more page 18 financial institutions of all types and sizes. Temenos AG Temenos Annual Report AG Annual 2018 Report 2018 11 11 Overview Our solutions continued PRODUCTS Temenos focuses its products into six main solutions. Although each of these is independently deployable, they are based around a common set of TEMENOS INFINITY capabilities and design principles Temenos Infinity has revolutionized our current offering delivering a new independent digital banking solution. aimed at increasing analytic It can be sold and deployed on any combination Temenos Infinity has insight and product agility, and of back office systems, including non-Temenos core revolutionized our current reducing the cost of operation banking systems as well as Temenos T24 Transact. Temenos Infinity is deployed using the Temenos Banking offering delivering a new and ownership. Even though Platform. It incorporates Temenos channels and real-time independent digital banking solution. they often are implemented on marketing, our market leading onboarding capability as an independent basis, Temenos well as a simple product origination process. clients gain progressively more More complex product origination, such as lending, benefit when multiple solutions is provided by the new origination architecture, developed as a way to enable banks to future proof are deployed in an end-to-end their digital experience through providing tools to manner. The extent to which support their lending products. All of these capabilities this is done, and the speed are enhanced by Temenos Analytics to support a datadriven digital banking experience. and sequencing of deployment are all selectable by the client, Digital transformation programs can be long and thus ensuring that the software complex. Acquiring new customers in a competitive digital banking market, even more so. Temenos Infinity supports their business and enables banks to deliver short to medium term gains commercial goals in an in digital sales and service performance by identifying and addressing customer experience issues. A key optimal manner. requirement of any digital transformation is to deliver growth as well as new channels of revenue generation. > A standalone software container built using the Temenos Platform which can be deployed independently from Temenos T24 Transact and can communicate with multiple core/back office systems > Omni-channel capability across Mobile, Web, Customer Contact Centre and more > A user experience platform that enables business Temenos T24 Transact is the users to deliver change independent of IT processes market-leading core banking > Real-time Marketing engine for delivering targeted, solution which incorporates the personalized offers and messaging broadest and deepest set of > Customer onboarding and account opening functionality available. > Product Quotation and Origination > Account Aggregation to enhance product innovation and Open Banking > Published list of Open APIs to support integration and lower Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) > Money Management (PFM) to empower customers to take control of their finances. 12 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements TEMENOS T24 TRANSACT TEMENOS PAYMENTS TEMENOS WEALTHSUITE Temenos T24 Transact is the market leading core Our Payments product is a uniquely flexible payment Temenos WealthSuite is designed to empower a wealth banking solution. Designed to operate in a truly offering that not only gives banks full, real-time control manager’s business. The solution helps wealth managers packaged manner, and with a consistent policy of but also a harmonized customer service experience to industrialize the investment process, allowing for the maintaining a single functional base, the breadth and and is a centralized for cost efficiencies and risk efficient management of investments for large numbers of depth of the products capabilities have grown over management. Our Payment Hub is designed to process complex portfolios whilst achieving maximal investment the years. With more than 25 years of investment in domestic and international payments in one solution in performance. the product functionality, the product contains massive any region as defined by analysts as ‘a vision for the functional capabilities, all of which can be accessed by payment architecture.’ Combining back office efficiency with front office any Temenos client who uses the software. The policy of differentiation, the product offers support for all wealth including all enhancements back into the base product It was designed in collaboration with a leading sectors from the U/HNWI to the Mass Affluent. This continues, ensuring that any bank which licenses the international bank to meet a gap in the market and latter sector has, in particular benefited from a renewed software can continue to enjoy the future investment with its rule and data driven approach, allows instant focus as the financial services industry identifies the which Temenos makes into the product. changes. segment as one key to growth; enhancements in this area include Robo-Advisor and Goal Based Investing T24 Transact also benefits from the underlying Our auto-repair solution allows banks to reach STP rates capabilities. functionality centered around data and analytics of 97% and higher. and the evolving support of the underlying Temenos WealthSuite offers: technology platform which now includes cloud native, Our Payments clients benefit from increased efficiency cloud agnostic and open API capabilities as well as and profitability through: > Increased performance and revenue growth support for a DevOps approach to implementation and > Multi-sector capabilities ongoing continuous deployment of new software and > A complete, single solution > Stronger customer loyalty configurations. > Transparent, 360° view of transactions > Advanced digital capabilities > Unique weight based processing supporting payment > Cost and risk reduction. The product offers support to almost all sectors of prioritization banking, including Retail, SME, Corporate and Inclusive > Agile, parameter driven platform flexibility banking segments. The functionality is designed to be > Full operational and technical control used on a global basis, which is then enhanced by the > Conditional rules; avoiding the complexity of multiple growing number of country model banks maintained by connections and high risk programming; and Temenos which provide packaged support for regional > Stand alone or fully embedded within Temenos banking requirements. T24 Transact. Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 13 Overview Our solutions continued Products continued FUND ADMINISTRATION TEMENOS SAAS The solution covers the full spectrum, supporting all Temenos has offered its software on a cloud-hosted product types and all asset classes on our unique, single basis since 2011, being an early adopter of this platform. Clients choose us because they know we can approach to delivering software. Since then, the range support all their fund administration requirements, both and scope of the offering has grown, with various SaaS now and in the future. offerings being available. 2019 sees the introduction of further SaaS offerings which build on the success and We provide the best functionality, flexibility and uptake of the solutions sold since 2011. extensive capability in our industry to deliver significant operational efficiency gains by replacing fragmented SaaS is a key change which permeates the financial legacy systems and manual processes with a single, services technology industry, and Temenos is enthusiastic global platform. Typically, our clients enjoy efficiency about continuing to invest in this area to ensure that improvements in excess of 30% by migrating to Temenos. banks can continue to benefit from the functional investment made by Temenos into its products, however As software dedicated specialists, our goals are aligned they wish to consume the capabilities. The underlying with those of our clients in providing market-leading structure of investing in global functionality and country products and transforming clients’ fund administration model banks ensures that Temenos’ SaaS solution activity with sophisticated workflow, production and supports the widest range of banks in different sectors control techniques. and geographies. Global Accounting Transform fund administration activity with sophisticated workflow and production control techniques. Drive dramatic increases in operational efficiency via advanced global operating models and integrated investment book and general ledger capability. Global Investor A single, global investor servicing and transfer agency platform, offering the most extensive capability in the industry, to deliver a step-change in efficiency, oversight and control. 14 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Temenos’ main products are supported by a common Temenos solutions are supported set of functional capabilities and support which by industry-leading capabilities enable them to provide excellent solutions to their clients, wherever they are located and whichever in the following areas: market segments they focus on. ANALYTICS FINANCIAL CRIME MITIGATION RISK AND COMPLIANCE Unlocking the power of banks’ data to become A uniquely flexible range of intelligent, versatile solutions Enabling financial institutions to navigate the complex analytically driven and drive profitability and efficiency for banks, large and small, to combat financial crime. regulatory landscape in order to remain focused on improvements throughout their entire organization. serving customers, creating innovative products and Temenos analytics enables banks to harness a The Financial Crime Mitigation product family is a improving profitability. wealth of data and transform it into valuable business range of intelligent, analytical detection engines that intelligence to support better decision-making across are accurate, fast, easy to configure and simple to use. The Risk and Compliance product family offers the enterprise and to enrich all interaction with their Its sophisticated approach ensures increased efficiency software and services for: customers. by saving time and lowering data-mining costs for enhanced decision-making and improved collaboration, > Compliance advice By using banking specific, high-value, analytical ultimately completely mitigating against risk. Banks > Audits applications in every department from Finance, choose the solution they need, whether it be to combat > Social media monitoring Marketing, Operations, Treasury to Risk Management, money laundering, accurately screen against sanctions > Vendor management banks are able to transform their business. This gives lists or ensure enhanced customer due diligence. > IFRS 9 banks a significant competitive edge in this new banking > CRS landscape and digital world. Our Financial Crime Mitigation clients benefit from > Enterprise risk management increased efficiency and profitability through: > FATCA compliance. By using Temenos Analytics, our clients are able to: > Safe and accurate algorithms With our solutions, organizations are able to reduce > Empower business users with self-service access to > Complete control and clarity exposure to risk and minimize losses while complying accurate data providing a single version of the truth > 25 years of experience fully with regulatory mandates. In this challenging driving smarter decision-making faster with better > Full automation environment, there is tremendous pressure to maintain business outcomes > Intelligent analysis and grow profit margins despite challenges associated > Gain deep customer insight into behavior and buying > Ready and easy integration with new consumer demands, non-traditional trends to build a customer-centric approach to > Stand alone or integrated into Temenos T24 Transact competitors, and heavy regulatory burdens. Proper delivering products and services > Real time as well as offline solutions. compliance practices, supplemented by products and > Embed intelligent analytics into core systems to enrich services from Temenos, can help financial institutions every customer interaction and boost customer With our solutions, organizations are able to reduce avoid penalties, fines, and reputational risk, ultimately engagement with a superior user experience exposure to risk and minimize losses while complying ensuring profitability and success. > Integrate real-time data and embed predictive fully with regulatory mandates. analytics to enable real-time risk and marketing activities > Provide customers with contextual, relevant product offers and advice at a time when they are most likely to buy – improving cross-selling, customer value and customer loyalty > Integrate analytical capabilities directly into core banking and other applications, making those COUNTRY MODEL BANKS applications, and the users of them, smarter and With our extensive experience of client implementations more efficient we have packaged all country specific localizations, > Better understand and predict performance to including compliance with regulations and local build strategies for improving operational efficiency payments systems, into reusable country platforms, to and financial processes to minimize risk and drive provide our clients with software that fully supports local profitable growth. requirements. We currently offer country model platforms for over 30 major countries. Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 15 Overview Our solutions continued TECHNOLOGY CLOUD NATIVE AND CLOUD AGNOSTIC Temenos has now started the program to make all of its solutions be both “cloud native” and “cloud agnostic”. This means that the software can run on cloud infrastructures using the features found in them which enable dynamic scalability and built-in INTEGRATION INTERACTION resilience. This has the effect of materially reducing Be more agile and competitive Opening banking platforms to the operational cost of running the technology that with real-time event based accelerate the pace of innovation the software uses, and also allowing the operations to scale out and in as needed. The cloud agnostic integration. around services. capabilities mean that this is true for all major cloud platforms. This is important as it allows banks to Temenos’ Integration offering makes banks more Temenos’ Interaction offering accelerates the pace of choose to deploy the software on any mainstream agile by enabling them to integrate systems much innovation around banks’ services by enabling them cloud platform and realize the cost, scale and faster and more cost efficiently, and be more to easily expose their services to innovation Partners resilience benefits automatically, and it also make competitive by enabling real-time, highly scalable, and to any User-Interface (UI). It also lets the bank Temenos’ own cloud and SaaS propositions more self-assisted and multi-channel banking 24x7. create innovative combined services and efficiently commercially attractive. manage UIs across multiple channels/devices/ Temenos’ Integration framework is the basis for roles/languages. Temenos support for PSD2 based on ISO 20022 OPEN APIs messages being exchanged between banks and Temenos’ Interaction framework is the basis for Integration is often an expensive and time consuming third party payment providers in near-real-time. Temenos support for APIs whether for banking mobile activity which can impact the ability of banks to both agents or for Open Banking. The framework enables deploy new solutions and to create innovations This technology enables banks to offer a superior the API to be mapped to the underlying enterprise around existing solutions. Temenos has a published customer experience, one that is much more timely services whether provided by Temenos, the bank, set of Open APIs which enables clients and other as well as more easily attuned to evolving customer or third parties. participants in the Temenos technology ecosystem needs, even when business is growing fast. The key to integrate the solutions into existing operational business benefits of our Integration products are: This technology enables our clients to easily environments and to design, test and deploy build and maintain an outstanding digital customer innovatory extensions around Temenos’ products. > Agility: the ability to integrate any business system experience that can evolve fast and cost-efficiently. up to 3x faster, without detailed vendor-specific The key business benefits of our Interaction The APIs can be accessed via a development portal coding work, enabling banks to respond much products are: for documentation and testing purpose, and allow faster to evolving business needs banks to rapidly make changes to their solutions and > Competitiveness: the ability to provide multi> Innovation: the ability to make banking services overall operational environment in an insulated and channel banking services in near-real-time 24x7, readily available in a standard way to innovation clearly defined way using modern technology and enabling banks to be competitive in the era of Partners and to any third-party UI of their choosing, design approaches which shorten the time needed real-time digital business which will accelerate the pace of innovation to accomplish this. > Profitability: the ability to sustainably reduce the around services costs of performing and maintaining integration, > Competitiveness: the ability to efficiently distribute CONTINUOUS DEPLOYMENT and the ability to exploit cloud-based applications; innovative services, including combined (banking Temenos Continuous Deployment is a DevOps > Scalability: the ability to preserve the performance and/or non-banking) services, via outstanding UIs based technology service which helps banks of integrated business services and straight through and via multiple channels/devices to increase the speed at which changes to their processing as business volumes grow > Flexibility: make it much easier to evolve UIs at application environments can be tested and rolled > Reliability: reduce the risk of batch processing a faster pace than underlying business systems out to production. This has the effect of both reducing glitches and provide protection against regulatory without incurring substantial costs (from ‘ripping the time needed to introduce new products and scrutiny and reputational damage. out’ and ‘rewiring’) services to their customers, but also to reduce > Cost-efficiency: reduce dependence on vendorthe cost and risk of implementation of new systems. specialized experts and on lengthy coding cycles This latter benefit also extends to the implementation to make banks services readily available and to of changes to existing system deployments and build their own UIs; enhance the re-usability of configurations. APIs and UIs that they create, and pre-empt data openness regulatory requirements. 16 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements PLATFORM DATA DESIGN Reduce the cost of growth and Turn the lead weight of data into Adapt banking system complexity with a highly scalable, a golden opportunity: manage it, functionality and business efficient and flexible platform. unlock it and extract value from it. processes better, faster and more frequently. Temenos’ Platform offering helps banks run and Temenos’ Data products provide banks with a unified scale their business systems much more efficiently data platform that helps them deal with the massive Temenos’ Design offering boosts banks’ and to minimize TCO. It does this by letting banks data volumes of the digital banking era by efficiently responsiveness to changes in business requirements run their core banking system in an application managing their data, unlocking and better accessing while reducing cost-per-change, by enabling banks server and, when required, in a multi-tenant or cloudtheir data, and extracting value from their data. to adapt the functionality of their Temenos business based set-up. In all cases, business functionality is systems and to adapt their business processes in a totally preserved. Temenos’ Data framework lets changes made by productive, cost-efficient and low-risk manner. any Temenos product to be available in near-realThis technology enables banks to deliver outstanding time to any configured reporting database. This data This technology enables banks to easily make high service to their customers and business users. The federation enables multi-tenant and multi-region quality adaptions to systems’ functionality to stay key business benefits of our Platform products and operation without loss of real-time query. abreast with evolving business requirements and framework are: customer journeys. The key business benefits This technology enables banks to strengthen their of our Design products are: > Scalability: enables banks to preserve the customer-centricity and support business decisions performance of their core banking system at even when the volume of business data is growing > Responsiveness/Productivity: the ability to respond all stages of growth, while keeping operating fast. The key business benefits of our Data products to evolving business requirements by adapting expenses in check, by fully exploiting application and framework are: functionality and processes much faster and much server technology and the possibility of using more frequently, possibly multiple times a week or a virtually unlimited number of app server instances > Scalability: the ability to efficiently process massive even per day, without increasing costs arranged to work together (clustering); and the volumes of both transactions and reporting queries > Quality: the ability to build and run a highly ability to undertake comprehensive reviews of their without increasing costs, thereby preserving industrialized and institutionalized change-thesystem’s health without impacting performance the quality of the customer and business user bank process which encourages high quality > Cost-efficiency: the ability to significantly reduce experience as the business grows development work and eliminates the risk of faulty infrastructure and administrative costs of running > Productivity: the ability to support advanced changes affecting business operations and growing a complex organization by letting reporting capabilities that provide business > Cost-efficiency: reduce dependence on vendormultiple entities (‘tenants’) share a same instance of decision-makers with value-adding perspectives, specialized experts, legacy in-house tools and the core banking system on a single set of platform and to provide customers with fast responses complex coding cycles, and maximize the level resources; and the ability to automate multito online queries of automation of the change-the-bank process. tenancy management to a large extent > Competitiveness: the ability to exploit business > Flexibility: at an operational level, the ability to analytics solutions to their fullest capabilities, choose which operating system and application enabling banks to action valuable insights server a bank wishes to use to run their banking and offer highly tailored and proactive systems; and, at a strategic level, the ability to products and services to customers. easily create and manage new tenants in the system, increasing business agility. Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 17 Overview Our solutions continued SECTORS RETAIL BANKING CORPORATE BANKING WEALTH MANAGEMENT The Temenos Retail Banking solution is an integrated The Temenos Corporate Banking solution, with its Temenos has a long-standing focus on the Wealth banking software solution for retail banks of all sizes scalable innovative technology, provides superior Management sector. The solution covers all parts of the across the globe. features for corporate banks, supporting profitability, industry, from the U/HNWI to the Mass Affluent and customer acquisition and retention. Now, bank is designed to be deployed by all participants in the It combines a modern, agile core with powerful analytics customers can benefit from quality digital solutions sector, ranging from Private Banks to Wealth Managers and a single platform for distribution across all digital to equal their retail experiences, for all their business to Retail Banks for the mass affluent sector. and assisted channels. It enables a bank to provide banking needs. convenience and choice to their customers in how they The solution contains sophisticated portfolio want to bank and manage their finances. It will extend Our corporate banking customers continue to see the management tools which cover most instrument the bank’s reach to customers using any device, today benefit of our advanced modules. Temenos’ corporate classes and which allow for maximized investment and in the future. The bank will be able to harness the banking customers benefit from increased efficiency and return. Supporting this core capability are digital wealth of its data to better understand its customers and profitability through: CRM capabilities specifically designed for the sector, develop products and services they want and need automation tools around goal-based planning and quickly and easily. > A full complete, single solution automated advice capability for the mass affluent > Transparent, single view offering a 360° sector and highly comprehensive back office The solution will address the banking technology, view of accounts functional support. regulatory and market challenges of today and > Agile, parameter driven platform flexibility tomorrow. Through Temenos a bank can leverage > A product builder to quickly create segment If a wealth manager is looking for a single vendor technology innovation to drive competitor differentiation customer level products solution, with the associated benefits of centralized and advantage, increase operational efficiencies, > Full control support, Temenos promises to transform their business. reduce costs and boost profitability. > Insight into customer profitability, loyalty, attrition The Wealth Management solution offers: risk and number of products for targeting activity Whether a bank is a new start-up looking for its first > A massively scalable, straight through-processing > Increased performance and revenue growth solution, or a large-scale multi-country bank, the solution > Stronger customer loyalty software provides a solution which will enable it to scale, > Comprehensive business functionality and a modern, > Advanced digital capabilities onboard, reduce attrition and deliver a market-leading advanced, secure, open, modular architecture > Cost and risk reduction. service to its customers. > An automated, electronic solution without the need for cumbersome paper based processes. 18 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements FUND ADMINISTRATION ISLAMIC BANKING INCLUSIVE BANKING With Temenos’ Fund Administration solution, clients Temenos’ Islamic Banking solution services the Islamic Temenos’ Inclusive Banking offering is an integrated have the capability to manage all asset classes and banking community with Shari’ah compliant, flexible banking software solution that helps community jurisdictions, both now and in the future, from a single solutions that have been specifically designed to support banks and Financial Institutions (FI) of all sizes, active accounting and investor servicing platform: wealth, retail, corporate and treasury bank needs. This in both (group and individual) lending and (member) range of highly scalable, established solutions means deposit holding. > Delivers long-only control and efficiency with that banks can now easily and efficiently create new alternatives flexibility on one platform, to support Islamic banking products, offering world class services It provides community financial institutions with convergence between long-only and alternative that rival Islamic or conventional counterparts. world-class banking capabilities that usually are only funds accessible to larger commercial banks with significant > Reduces total cost of ownership by consolidating Temenos’ Islamic Banking customers benefit from IT budgets. Inclusive Banking, which can be deployed functions and systems on one platform across multiple increased efficiency and profitability through: in the cloud on a SaaS basis, provides a modern, agile geographies, asset classes, jurisdictions and highly scalable core banking system, as well as > Delivers increased efficiency through sophisticated > Full automation and increased straight a single platform for distribution across all digital and workflow and exception management through processing rates assisted channels, and powerful business analytics. > Syndicates analysis/product development across > 31% higher return on assets clients, so that development costs are shared and all > -8.6 point lower cost-to-income ratio For community banks, it offers dividend point tracking, clients benefit from changes made to one code base > 36% higher return on capital provisions therefore and parameterized dividend > Supports both middle office and back office, and > Reduced development time by 40% processing functionality. delivers the Investment Book Of Records (IBOR) > Quality customer products and services and Accounting Book Of Records (ABOR) from available quickly and cost effectively Inclusive Banking enables community financial institutions one platform. > Growth at double target rate to significantly reduce operating costs even when their > Adopting a pre-configured solution based business is growing fast, and to pass on these efficiencies on Shari’ah industry standard to their end-customers in the spirit of financial inclusion. > Offering advanced Shari’ah wealth At the same time, it enables them to clearly differentiate management services. themselves with highly responsive service, tailored products and a truly customer-centric experience – giving every customer, regardless of their financial worth, the same quality service anywhere. Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 19 Overview Insights – thought leadership SEEING AND THINKING DIFFERENTLY OPEN BANKING AND BANKS HAVE TO BREAK THE ROAD TO INSTANT PAYMENTS; AN AWAY FROM LEGACY CONVERSATIONAL ESSENTIAL PARTNERSHIP THINKING BANKING Banks and fintechs are working together to unlock the According to the World Bank, an estimated two billion Customer interaction and channels preferences have full potential of Open Banking. But does the real benefit adults across the globe do not have a basic bank experienced significant changes over time and are lie in leveraging real-time payments? account. In addition, 200,000 formal micro-, smalland constantly evolving and expanding across all industries, medium-sized enterprises in emerging economies do not including banking. To consolidate customer satisfaction Darryl Proctor have access to the financing they need to grow. and cultivate customer advocacy, banks must endeavor Managing Director, Temenos Infinity to continue to meet these changing needs through use Murray Gardiner of innovative and progressive technology. Product Director, Temenos Inclusive Banking Dharmesh Mistry Chief Digital Officer, Temenos 20 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements THE DIGITAL WEALTH FIVE KEY ELEMENTS THE FUTURE OF FINTECH MANAGER: SEIZING THE ESSENTIAL TO UNLOCKING ISN’T WHAT IT USED TO BE ROBO OPPORTUNITY THE SECRETS OF DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION When new technology companies began developing innovative business models and applications in the Wealth management is booming. PwC predicts that world of finance, many commentators suggested that the global assets under management will double by 2025 We asked many banks what kind of digital industry was heading for a revolution. Banking was, after to USD 145.4 trillion, with much of the growth coming organizations they aspired to be. The response all, ripe for disruption. from the mass-affluent market. from most was: Amazon. Ben Robinson Jeremy Boot Kam Chana Head of Temenos MarketPlace Senior Product Manager, Temenos Senior Digital Strategist, Temenos Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 21 Overview Research and development INVESTMENT TO INNOVATION The Temenos software investment THE VIRTUOUS CYCLE OF TEMENOS SOFTWARE INVESTMENT approach forms a virtuous cycle in which our clients TEMENOS INVESTMENT APPROACH influence Temenos’ investment INVEST C.20% OF REVENUES IN R&D and therefore benefit from the improved product. This in turn contributes to their success. Respond to Revolutionary Evolutionary Our clients then advocate for investment in investment changing Respond to our solutions enabling us to technology and in banking industry specific client regulation and requirements attract new clients continuing architecture functionality trends the cycle. RE LE TE ST AS E Continued CONTINUOUS advocacy and DELIVERY commitment DE D P LO IL Y BU SoftwareOn cloud or as-a-Service on premise Improved Reduced customer operational risk experience Improved Reduced operating Reduced time customer costs to market intimacy HOW OUR CLIENTS BENEFIT 36% INCREASE IN ROE 22 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Revolutionary investment in technology Continuous delivery Reduced time to market and architecture Temenos builds, deploys and tests software on a Today, digitalization and the rise of new, specialized In order to keep pace with the rapid rate of change in daily basis. We use this as the foundation for the and highly agile competitors are driving banks to information technology, Temenos continues to invest continuous release of upgrades to clients, which are then respond ever more quickly to customers’ individual significantly to ensure that its software takes advantage accumulated into one Annual Maintenance Release needs. Temenos’ software enables banks to respond of the latest innovations. The technology changes each year. All releases are cumulative enabling clients quickly, flexibly and securely to these business needs required to support the growing business and regulatory to upgrade when they want. The upgrade process is as it is highly parameter-driven, and delivered with interest in Open Banking are a prime example of this. designed to operate with minimal disruption to a bank’s pre-configured, re-usable content, as well as What is revolutionary at one point becomes standard staff and customers. user-friendly configuration, design and testing tools. in the following years, and this is why it is important to continue with this investment approach. Examples Reduced operating costs Improved customer intimacy can be seen in recent years in the adoption of mobile Banks spend an average of 14.3% of their operating A modern, digital bank requires sophisticated analytics banking technology and the increasing desire to provide costs on IT. Moreover, less than 30% of this is on growth to understand customer needs, to service regulators software solutions which are hosted on the cloud. and innovation; the remainder is spent on business as and to make optimal business decisions in a timely Temenos offers updated software based on the latest usual activities. In contrast, Temenos clients spend only and efficient manner. The Temenos analytics product technology to clients seamlessly through simple, 5.7% of their total costs on IT, of which 53.7% is on set is tightly embedded within the overall front-to-back regular upgrades. innovation. The result of lower and innovation-focused solution, providing real-time, predictive and integrated expenditure is an ROE (Return On Equity) ratio for analytics based on a single version of the truth sourced Evolutionary investment in banking functionality Temenos clients which is 36% higher than banks using from both transactional and contextual data from all Banking functionality changes more gradually than legacy systems. areas of the solution. This enables bank staff to take information technology, with evolutionary advances customer service and business strategic decisions being made in banking products, industry practice and Improved customer service on the basis of up to date information. regulation. Temenos’ investment in functionality over Customers expect banks to provide the same level of the past 25 years reflects this. Recent examples have seamless, personalized service which they receive from included the embedding of analytics across the entire leading online service companies such as Amazon portfolio to support decision making by our clients and or Uber. In the past, banks’ abilities to provide such incremental investments in AI capabilities in areas such service has been hampered by legacy technology as the robo-advisor in wealth. We enable our existing and business issues. Temenos provides a modern clients to add new functionality to what they use already front-to-back digital and integrated solution, allowing through regular updates, whilst releasing the latest seamless customer journeys across all areas of a bank’s software for new clients monthly. service and product portfolio. A single rules engine driven by embedded analytic capabilities, enables a Respond to changing industry regulation bank to proactively tailor the experience to a customer’s and trends individual needs based on a single 360° lifetime view Banking, being a highly regulated industry, is subject to of the customer. the continuous changing of requirements by regulatory agencies. At Temenos, we actively follow changes in Reduced operational risk banking regulation, in order to build relevant solutions Legacy IT landscapes are inherently risky because into the software and thus support our clients using the of the many interfaces which are required between regular upgrade mechanism. We also anticipate other different functionality and delivery silos; the number significant industry trends such as open and digital of “islands” of functionality and the resulting complexity banking, and incorporate them proactively into of connections between them increase the number our software. of points where a process or technology failure can occur. As a result, banks can face outages in mission Respond to specific client requirements critical operations with resulting reputational damage. As we enter new markets or work with new clients, it is These risks are increased if the bank is still relying on possible that our software may require enhancement. obsolete technology where there is often a shortage of We invest in our products to close these functional suitably skilled resources. The end-to-end integration gaps, but also in such a way so as to make the new offered by Temenos’ software, with its configurable and functionality of widest benefit possible to our existing and sophisticated workflow, access control and security future clients. We do this by ensuring that flexibility is built features, allows our clients to benefit from the lowest into the design, and that the software is incorporated levels of IT operational risk, and to future-proof their IT into the standard product. Our wide geographic reach architecture by means of the regular software release across all banking segments means that enhancements mechanism. developed for a specific client are often relevant in other markets and to other clients. Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 23 Overview Research and development continued R&D % OF REVENUE SPENT ON R&D USD 1.9bn Cumulative R&D investment 1990-2018 25 20 Temenos average spend 15 TEMENOS of revenue on R&D % of revenue 10 5 OUR PEERS 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 R&D at more than twice the We also support partial upgrades, allowing our Proud record of innovation clients to upgrade the parts of their solution which Our philosophy could be summed up as constant level of our competitors plus they need to. This means that all of our clients can functional evolution delivered on innovative deep domain knowledge continue to benefit from the ongoing investment we technology. We are proud of the record of means that our software make in our products. innovation which we have established, being, for example, the first banking software vendor to run on never becomes legacy. Core principles open systems, to have a truly 24x7 platform, the first Temenos has always produced software according to run core banking software in the public cloud and Investing more than our peers on R&D to a set of core principles. We believe in re-use, the first to have all services exposed as RESTful APIs. Temenos has consistently invested over 20% of its openness and being agnostic about technology Temenos has recently announced the next stage in revenues in R&D. This is more than twice the level platforms. This means that all developments are its technology investment and innovation with the of investment made by our closest competitors. made available to all clients. It also means giving our migration of all of our products to “cloud native” Furthermore, since we only produce software for clients choice over which technology they run and and “cloud agnostic” platform capabilities. banking and finance, all of this investment is targeted never locking them into a particular provider. The at our concentrated product portfolio. openness means that third parties can develop on our platform to accelerate innovation thus ensuring Channeled continuously into product releases that our clients always have access to the best Our software is fully packaged and upgradeable. technology and functionality. We produce new software on a continuous basis which has traditionally been available on a monthly release cycle. This will continue to be available, together with an annual release, for clients which wish to consume our software on this basis. Going forwards, we will also make more of our software available on a continuous deployment basis, with DevOps support, for banks to help them to shorten the innovation cycle. 24 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements OPEN BANKING The pace of innovation is A new strategic imperative OPEN BANKING READINESS The move to Open Banking, however, will be extremely accelerating at the same time lucrative to those banks that embrace the paradigm Banks were asked “To what extent do you agree/ as competitive boundaries are shift. To do so, they will need to abandon the old disagree with each of the following statements about Open Banking?” (%), 2015-2017. blurring. model of mass distribution and distribution and instead 89 % open themselves to working with a network of Partners, The strong barriers to entry that existed in banking are becoming a concentration point for information flows disappearing, creating a greater need to innovate to so that they can learn faster and give the best customer stay ahead. But it’s now not enough to just innovate experience at scale. faster; firms must keep up with best-in-class innovators regardless of what sector they might operate in today. Digitization won’t be enough, only a true platform This calls not just for technology investment, but to play will significantly boost returns on equity. A recent harness technology to continually adapt business study by McKinsey showed that by digitizing existing models to the imperatives of the day. Today, that processes and products, banks could boost return on IT IS MORE OF AN OPPORTUNITY equity by around 2.5 percentage points. In contrast, imperative is for companies to open up; to build THAN A THREAT competitive advantage by leveraging their position opening a true ecosystem play, where banks would to put themselves at the heart of an ecosystem; aggregate products and services from third parties, 2017 89% to influence rather than control. This is true for could see banks boost return on equity by as much 2015 52% Temenos. It is true for banks. It is true for fintechs. as 6.3 percentage points. 57 Banks are starting to appreciate this. A survey from % Recognizing the broad need for collaboration across financial services is why we created the Temenos Cognizant and Temenos found that a clear majority MarketPlace; an ecosystem for growth. of bankers (89%) now see Open Banking as more of an opportunity than a threat with 57% of bankers saying that they would be prepared to distribute third-party Opening up is unavoidable services over their platform. The effects of technology and regulation are selfreinforcing and pushing to much greater openness. This change in banking sentiment coincides with an increasing realization on the part of many service So many technologies are opening up the banking WE ARE HAPPY TO DISTRIBUTE THIRD PARTY providers, especially fintech companies, that using market: mobile phones have opened up a new PRODUCTS THROUGH OUR PLATFORM banks as a route to market – given their large customer distribution channel; cloud has lowered infrastructure numbers, compliance and capital – might well be easier costs and opened the market to new entrants; APIs have 2017 57% than going it alone. In a recent poll we conducted with opened up the flow of information; and blockchain is 2015 29% fintech companies, 87% told us that they would like to decentralizing trust. work with incumbent banks. Now, regulatory forces are also pushing in the same And so the scene is now set for greater collaboration. direction. Open Banking legislation, which started in Europe, is fanning out across the globe, forcing banks to share customer data as well as share their payment infrastructure with third parties. As such, the move to Open Banking appears inevitable, whether banks like it or not. Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 25 Overview Research and development continued FINDING THE BEST FINTECH According to some estimates, there are as many as 25,000 fintech companies in operation today. The Community The Temenos MarketPlace community is vibrant and multi-sided. Our goal is to do more than just connect banks and fintech firms, but to catalyze the future of Open Banking. To do so requires us to bring together a diverse set of stakeholders. In 2018, we added several new relationships with innovation centers – such as B-Hive in Belgium and AUC Venture Lab in Cairo – which plug us into the best fintech providers from around the world. But most important has been the close collaboration with our customers and their innovation teams, who work with us to uncover the best fintech players. Innovation Jams And, of course, our own scouting continues. In 2018, over 20 MarketPlace events were held in 12 different cities, of which more than half were hosted by community members – accelerators and banking clients. And, in 2018, we held nine different Innovation Jams to give a platform to companies not already on the MarketPlace to demonstrate their solution to our community members. We held these Jams in Hong Kong, Shanghai, Abu Dhabi, Miami, Amsterdam, London, Geneva, Dublin and Luxembourg. And the winners of the Innovation Jams took part in a global final, which was held at TCF in Dublin in May. The winners were Belleron, which provides protection against enterprise-level cyber attacks, and SONECT, which provides a solution for democratizing cash distribution. Both firms are now on MarketPlace. The power of the crowd Thanks to the efforts of the team working together with our community, we have now assessed over 1,200 fintech firms, of which just over 65 firms are now live on MarketPlace. Our selection criteria is tough, but that’s because we only want the best. 26 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements THE TEMENOS MARKETPLACE Catalyzing the future of At the start of 2019, we opened up our MarketPlace for banking services, meaning that our customers Open Banking. can now access both a curated set of pre-integrated applications as well as a curated set of pre-integrated Overwhelmingly, banks and fintech companies complementary services. The first of these was Raisin, want to work together. The challenge is that there is the Europe platform for deposits and we will be adding no established model for doing so. This is what the several more during the course of the year. Temenos MarketPlace solves. In 2018, we conducted two surveys. The first, together with Cognizant, was a survey of banks. The other was a survey of fintechs. Both are interesting in their own right, CATALYZING THE FUTURE OF OPEN BANKING but even more so when they are put together. When asked about working with fintech companies, 89% of banks are in favor. When asked about working with cker procur banks, 87% of fintechs are in favor. Underlying these trust, qui eme answers is a desire on the part of banks to get greater ater nt.. access to innovation and, on the part of fintechs, to gain a Gre . route to market for their services. It is therefore a symbiotic BANKS relationship to which both sides want to be party. So why are there not more bank/fintech partnerships? Because it’s not easy to get these two groups to work together. Consider the issue from the fintech angle. Banks are large, complex organizations to navigate with necessarily strict procurement processes. Even though 81.1% of our fintech respondents told us that banks willingness to work with them had improved over the last three years, only 45% of banks said their ability to work with fintech companies had improved. From the banks’ side, there are so many fintech companies out there – something like 25,000 – that it is difficult to understand what they do and how they could MARKETPLACE add value. In addition, it takes a long time (18 months CURATION on average) to steer these small companies through CERTIFICATION their procurement, legal and IT security processes and INTEGRATION typically another 18 months to be able to test and integrate their solutions. This is where we come in. The Temenos MarketPlace is curated. We work with our community to screen the market and find the very best solutions. Our clients can be sure that every solution on Temenos MarketPlace is best-in-class. Then, in order to speed up procurement cycles, we provide two solutions. The first is certification. Working with our partners at Fin5Lab, we are able to provide an independent, authoritative stamp of quality for the fintech solutions that go through the program, assessing the financial viability of the companies and the robustness of their solutions. The second is preFINTECHS integration and remote testing. Temenos clients can use ...more transactions a sandbox environment to test fintech solutions, allowing them to quickly and thoroughly test the solutions before deciding whether to buy and install into their production environment. Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 27 Overview Delivering client success A STRATEGY FOR ALL CLIENTS Temenos and our network of For larger more complex programs, a Spine team of “My focus is all about delivering senior Temenos implementation consultants are assigned Partners took 233 clients live to work alongside the Partner and client providing on our promises. If we aren’t with Temenos software in 2018 specific expertise on implementing products across the able to implement our software continuing the tremendous track entire Temenos portfolio and for the various streams smoothly and efficiently, within a major transformation program. record of successful delivery that the pipeline will dry up. we have seen over recent years. In addition to being certified to deliver implementation Implementation is fundamental programs, Temenos also provides the training for our to our ability to sell. Of course, The strength of the Temenos Partner Program, where our selected Partners operate as a critical member of Partners to become certified in a number of specialist functions to further support our clients in the development, it is rarely as simple as ‘flicking a the Temenos Community, allows for agile scale and migration, upgrade and training with regard to switch’ but our deep understanding coverage supporting our clients globally and allows Temenos products. of our product, our clients and the Temenos to focus on its chosen role as a product company. relationships we share with our As the evolution of the cloud becomes critical to the future of the Banking and Financial Services industry Partners means that we do get it The Temenos delivery strategy of supporting our Partners the value of our Technology Partners, who provide right. In 2018, 233 banks went through the Temenos Project Consulting Service and the platforms certified to host Temenos products, is live on our software – that’s an working alongside them through the deployment of becoming ever more important. We offer our own Spine teams on more complex programs continues SaaS service to our clients and also in conjunction average of almost one go-live to deliver a record of regular and timely go lives and with our Technology Partners to deliver solutions to our every working day of the year ultimately a high level of customer success. clients. Temenos Services division along with our services – a staggering achievement.” Partners ensures there is the correct level of trained and The Spine Team comprises Program and Project certified consultants on any project when implementing Management resources experienced in major banking Temenos solutions in the cloud to continue to drive Alexa Guenoun, transformations and Expert Consultants assigned to each future client success. Chief Client Officer of the key streams within the program working alongside the Partner teams providing specialist knowledge of the specific products being deployed. The carefully chosen Partners within the Temenos Partner Program commit to developing delivery practices of trained and certified consultants able to successfully deliver Temenos implementation projects. This commitment has seen the growth of both the capacity and capability within the Temenos Partner ecosystem during 2018, supported by the increased and continuously improved training content made available through the Temenos Learning Community. Temenos provides Project Management and Architectural support through the Temenos Project Consulting Services (TPCS) to help guide both clients and Partners when running a project to deploy Temenos software. The TPCS services provide access to expert support who can recommend best practice with regard to the implementation and use of Temenos software and how to optimize the use of the Temenos Implementation Methodology. 28 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements THE FOCUS FOR TEMENOS SERVICES The clarity of the Partner strategy Productized services for live clients To allow our live clients to continue to gain the maximum allows Temenos to focus on value from the Temenos products they have deployed, the delivery of a portfolio our focus has been on delivering the Productized of Productized Services for Services most required by our clients. our clients. These Productized Services offer a short duration, pre-defined package delivered by an experienced The strength of the Temenos Partner Program provides resource. both global capacity and capability for our clients to be able to implement and upgrade the full portfolio Covering Performance Heathchecks, Data Lifecycle of Temenos products. Management and Upgrade Assessment, these service products offer a cost effective approach to improving This allows the Temenos Services consultants to performance, managing risk and supporting clients who focus on specific roles and responsibilities supporting wish to enjoy the benefits of staying on the latest release implementation and upgrade projects in addition to of Temenos software. providing a portfolio of Productized Services for live clients to optimize the use of the Temenos products they Most recently and to support the latest Temenos have deployed. products we have created a Cloud Readiness Service which will guide clients looking to use a cloud based Project consulting for implementing platform to deploy Temenos products. or upgrading clients Temenos has two types of delivery models to support both implementation projects as well as large transformation programs. Our partnering strategy denotes that most implementation and upgrade projects are primed by Partners. To support this Temenos offers Project Consulting Services to clients (TPCS). The assigned Project Manager and Expert Consultant work with both the client and the Partner to ensure adoption of the Temenos Implementation Methodology (TIM), optimal use of the project team and ultimately drive a successful go live of the project. All Temenos projects in 2018 have been converted to an online, 24x7 cloud based governance tool allowing immediate access to project status and position allowing Temenos to ensure delivery success for the client. In the case of large banking transformation programs, Temenos will deploy a full time Spine team to work alongside the Partner. Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 29 Overview Delivering client success continued TEMENOS LEARNING COMMUNITY Two years ago Temenos set out TLC Engine Our second product in the TLC family arrived at the to restructure and modernize its beginning of 2018. TLC Engine is our complete digital training and learning model in transformation tool able to train, test and certify a client’s answer to the increasing demand team. for Temenos experts, by making TLC Engine brings a business-process led learning TLC ONLINE the process of knowledgeexperience that provides the ability for our clients transfer easier, faster and more to shape and document their own unique standard operating processes. Beyond addressing our clients Cloud based, individual subscription learning platform, providing unlimited, 24x7 access cost effective for our clients and training needs, TLC Engine is a comprehensive day to official Temenos training and certification Partners. The Temenos Learning to day operational tool with smart impact analysis programs and our global expert community and rich auditing capability. Community (TLC) was created to answer those demands, and We are very proud to have already implemented during 2018 we have driven our first two clients at Byblos Bank and Al Masraf (Arab Bank for Investment and Foreign Trade) where continued growth, cementing TLC they are now using TLC Engine to support their own as the number one provider for transformation programs. all Temenos’ educational needs, creating experts at the heart TLC Classroom TLC ENGINE The TLC Classroom is still a very popular product with of the Temenos Ecosystem. our clients and Partners alike and in 2018 we evolved The digital learning and communications our offering and made it more accessible with new platform, that is able to capture and TLC Online componentized content, improved course structures maintain bank specific operating procedures We are excited to report that membership of TLC Online and offering virtual courses and relaunched our public and content, in order to rapidly upskill and has grown some 180% to more than 2,000 subscribers access courses. certify their teams in 2018. TLC Online is our approach to provide accessible knowledge-transfer to the entire Temenos To further enhance this accessibility, a new, flexible ecosystem including clients, Partners and independent blended learning approach was launched to allow a consultants. Subscribers enjoy access to our latest combination of classroom training with remote training content, sandboxes, learning paths and to the only via our online subscription service TLC Online. This recognized Temenos certification available. blended approach can save a client significant time and money through reduced travel and expense. In the past year we have seen substantial increases in the activities enjoyed by our members, including an 86% increase in examinations taken, an 88% improvement in Temenos Learning Community TLC CLASSROOM the number of members who increased their certification has established a new approach levels, and around 3,000 logins to the TLC sandboxes. for Temenos to engage with all Virtual or instructor-led classroom training of our expanding ecosystem that provided by highly experienced, certified puts the knowledge-sharing and trainers in standard or bespoke formats, delivered both onsite or via public access learning of Temenos products and classrooms technologies at the heart of our clients’ and Partners’ learning strategies. 30 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Insights 11 ANNUAL TH BANKING SURVEY An industry in transition And banks are prepared to put up the money GROWING CHALLENGE: UPGRADING This year’s survey, conducted together with Cognizant, The delta between banks expecting higher IT spending CYBERDEFENCES AS FAST AS BUSINESS shows an industry in transition. The specter of the and those expecting lower IT budgets going into 2019 IS DIGITIZING* financial crisis and its aftermath – in terms of winning stood at 60%, the second highest level in the last 11 back trust and coping with the raft of new regulation – years. Furthermore, the money is not just being directed 2018 14% seems to be fading. In its place, banks are focusing on towards front office areas, such as channels. Core 2017 10% what it will take to adapt to, and succeed in, the new era banking replacement (cited by 23% as top investment 2016 5% of digitization and Open Banking. area) is still the top priority, suggesting banks recognize the importance of end-to-end system replacement to Open Banking is an opportunity delivering the highest quality customer experience at Banks might not have wanted Open Banking legislation, scale. MANAGING THE IMPACT but they can now see how it could benefit them. 89% of OF TOUGHER REGULATIONS* respondents (up from 79% in 2017 and 52% in 2015) Cloud goes mainstream 16% 2018 now see Open Banking as more of an opportunity than As we’ve observed consistently for the last ten years, 2017 17% a threat, although many worry about the increased banks see fewer barriers to adopting the public cloud; threat of cyber criminality that could result (15% see this just 26% see regulatory hurdles (compared to 40% in 2016 18% as their biggest challenge vs. 10% in 2017). 2009) and just 22% cite data confidentiality concerns 2015 17% (compared to 50% in 2011). In keeping with this, the 2014 25% Fintechs are definitely friends use of the cloud is moving quickly from peripheral 2011 29% As banks have warmed to Open Banking, so they areas, such as testing, to full production and from small 2010 30% have become ever more disposed to working with institutions to the largest banks, with little discernible difference across bank tiers and segments when it comes 2009 32% fintech firms. Today, 9 in 10 banks want to work with fintech companies although there are still challenges to willingness to deploy cloud technology. in making these partnerships happen quickly enough. And banks don’t just want to work with fintech firms to HOW CAN FINTECHS ADD VALUE?* boost productivity, with most wanting to work with firms that can help improve digital engagement (21%) and 21% 18% 15% 14% 13% 12% 9% provide complementary services (18%). Challenger banks are definitely not For the second year running, banks see challenger banks as their biggest competitive threat. The threat from large incumbent banks, with big brands and balance sheets, remains strong (19% cite as biggest threat) and the risk from the consumer tech giants making a bigger foray into banking is still present (20%), but it is challenger banks that top the list (cited by 23% vs Digital engagement Alternative Big data/Analytics Security/Fraud Payments RegTech/Compliance Automation/Operations/ 22% the previous year). Their ability to combine new technology and business models with a banking license is what has banks worried. banking services Infrastructure Business model change is the top priority Top of banks’ minds in this year’s poll is business model change, cited by 21% of banks as their top priority compared to 14% the previous year. Most banks seem Growing top line to realize that to prosper in the digital age will require Boosting efficiency a different business than in the past and are considering A mix of both becoming aggregators (23%), infrastructure players (14%), specialists (38%) as well as starting challenger * % of respondents. banks of their own (24%). Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 31 Performance PERFORMANCE 32 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements PERFORMANCE Business and financial review 34 Principal risks and uncertainties 42 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 33 Performance Business and financial review CEMENTING OUR POSITION AS MARKET LEADERS “We have delivered another BUSINESS REVIEW outstanding set of results for the INTRODUCTION 2018 was an outstanding year for Temenos, as we “Our new cloud native, cloud full year 2018, with excellent continued to pull ahead of the competition and take agnostic product set means performance across all of our market share. Our very strong performance was across we have a very compelling geographies and segments. The all of our KPIs, both financial and operational, and offering in this space that has demonstrates we are able to consistently execute at a growth was broad based with very high standard over multiple years, delivering strong put us significantly ahead of the strong demand from banks of all growth and returns for our shareholders. competition in terms of our cloud sizes and across all regions. Banks capabilities, and we expect this We have been able to do this by focusing on our are under increasing pressure winning business model and strategy. We build to drive strong incremental from digitization, regulation and and sell the best packaged, upgradeable banking growth in the future.” the move to Open Banking. Our software in the world. We invest more in Research and Development than any other vendor. We have end market is clearly accelerating built an ecosystem of Partners around Temenos across and we are capitalizing on this technology, fintech and systems integrators. And we are a global company that operates locally, working momentum to drive significant with our clients on the ground to deliver success for their From a competitive perspective, we maintained very growth in our business. businesses. high win rates in 2018, and are continuing to take market share. We have consistently generated at least We continue to benefit from multiple structural growth 50% of our revenue from tier 1 and tier 2 banks over We achieved several important drivers in our end market. The pace of adoption of the last few years, and did so again in 2018. The milestones in 2018, with key digital services by bank customers is accelerating and opportunity for us to grow in these institutions is very significant and will be a key focus for us going forward wins including Paypal, Inc. and placing ever-increasing demands on banks to be as we aim to increase our penetration and strengthen fully digital, from front-to-back. Banks must be able to a top 30 US bank for Temenos meet their customer needs in real time, and move from our position as the leading vendor to the world’s Infinity, our independent digital transaction processors to becoming trusted advisors, largest banks. front office product, as well as the recommending next-best-product and fulfilling customer To capture the market opportunity we continued demands instantaneously. There have been a significant acquisition of Avoka in the US to number of new entrants to the banking market across investing in the business, in particular in Sales and enhance our customer onboarding neo-banks, fintechs and other technology players, that Marketing and R&D. We grew our sales force by over 20% in 2018, through a mix of experienced hires as and acquisition capabilities. We are aiming to take market share from banks by offering well as attracting some of the best graduate talent in exactly these type of services. are leading the market globally the market to join the Temenos Sales Academy. This intensive training program gives an excellent grounding among both traditional banks The move to Open Banking is also accelerating across banking, software and sales, and has produced as well as neo-banks and new demand. This started in Europe but is now rapidly moving into all regions globally, where banks and other some of our top performing salespeople in recent years. entrants. We also have seen a players are sharing customer data to offer customers In terms of innovation, we continued to spend at least 20% of revenue on R&D in the year, with a particular significant increase in demand the best possible service. This presents both a threat and focus on digital, analytics, and cloud and SaaS. The an opportunity for banks, one that Temenos can help from banks to run our products in them take advantage of. These structural drivers are launch of our revolutionary cloud native, cloud agnostic the cloud and to take advantage underpinning growth in spend on third-party banking products in January 2019 is a significant milestone in the history of Temenos and moves our product years of our SaaS offering.” software and will continue to do so for decades. ahead of the competition. We expect SaaS and cloud to drive significant incremental growth going forward and believe we have a highly compelling product and technology proposition to meet this demand. 34 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements 76 53 6x % OUR OPERATING HIGHLIGHTS 76 new customers in 2018 Tier 1 and 2 banks contributed 6x growth in SaaS bookings 53% of total software licensing revenue Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 35 Performance Business and financial review continued 2018 IN REVIEW Our 3 year plan – update on strategic initiatives Delivering customer success Sales – broad based demand across We made excellent progress on our strategic initiatives 2018 was another outstanding year of customer geographies and segments in 2018. We last outlined these initiatives in our 2018 success. A total of 233 banks went live on our software In 2018 our growth was driven by broad based Capital Markets day as follows: in the year, of which 95 were going live for the very first demand across all segments, tiers and geographies, time. We are able to deliver such outstanding results with digital and regulatory pressures continuing to be > Enhancing our award-winning Suites. for our clients by working very closely with our Partners, top of mind for banks, as well as the adoption of and We are focused on the openness of our platform, who provide the bulk of the implementation team with disruption from Open Banking. using API layers to allow banks to build their own our Services organization acting in a quality control innovation or plug in third party applications. Our and governance role on all our projects. We have also API layers also allow banks to run T24 Transact or promoted our Chief Client Director, Alexa Guenoun, We had significant momentum in the US, with the to the Executive Committee, as of February 2019, with Temenos Infinity independently, or as an integrated signing of a strategically important deal with a top responsibility for our global delivery and governance, front-to-back offering tier US bank for Temenos Infinity, our independent and reflecting the importance of our client success to the > Product development to open up new digital front-office product. We also signed a deal ongoing success of our business. markets. We have continued to invest heavily with PayPal, Inc. for loan management in the cloud. in new innovation to accelerate our growth and We are demonstrating we can beat the domestic US penetration in key markets as well as opening up OUR PRODUCT REVOLUTION competition and are gaining recognition across the new ones. For example in January 2019 we signed At the start of 2019, we launched our two new market as well as showing that the leading technologya partnership with Bloomberg to offer contingency products – T24 Transact, our leading core banking led entrants to the banking market want to partner NAV calculations to the buy-side, which moves us product, and Temenos Infinity, our independent digital with Temenos based on the breadth and depth of our into the Capital Markets space with a low-cost and front office product. product functionality, as well as the strength of our highly scalable model innovation road map. > Market development to capture faster These new products combine the most complete growth. We are focused on driving growth in banking functionality in the market, leveraging 25 years We also had very strong performance in a number of key markets where we have a strong competitive of functionality from 3,000 banks in over 150 countries other geographies. Europe continues to see significant positioning and the ability to capture market share. with the most advanced cloud native, cloud agnostic, momentum and a strong runway for growth, with banks Particular highlights in 2018 were Australia, where API first technology and design led thinking. focused on digitization and cost reduction. We had an we signed deals with top institutions, the Middle East excellent performance in the Middle East and Africa and Africa where we had very strong growth, and Through APIs, both products can be implemented in 2018, with demand from top tier banks across both the US with two strategically important deals signed independently or integrated. Clients will be able to sub-regions. We won a significant number of new in the year roll-out new applications in hours utilizing advanced name clients, as well as having strong sales into our > Readying the organization for sustained continuous deployment tools and methodologies. existing client base. Lastly in Asia, we saw demand faster growth and changing deployment models. The conversion from Temenos’ existing Digital Front for our wealth product from retail banks seeking to We launched our revolutionary products, T24 Office and T24 Core Banking products are automatic enhance their mass-affluent offering, and demand in Transact and Temenos Infinity, in January 2019. and upgrades for existing clients to the new cloud Australia from banks across all tiers, and in particular These are cloud native, cloud agnostic and API-first native, cloud agnostic Temenos products are available for SaaS and cloud. and a major milestone both for Temenos and the from April 2019. All Temenos SaaS products run on the market. We see growing demand from banks of all new Temenos platform. sizes to run our software in the cloud, sometimes with More broadly, there has been a significant increase in a SaaS model, and these products give us marketTemenos Infinity is the major next step in the award demand for SaaS and cloud adoption in 2018, with leading cloud and SaaS capabilities. To sustain winning Temenos Digital Front Office product, which total contract value increasing by over six times in 2018 faster growth, we also need to continue scaling has over 300 banking clients. Temenos Infinity is an to reach USD 59 million of order book signed in the our third party partner relationships. We reached independent omni-channel digital banking product year, very little of which has yet flowed through our 5,000 skilled third party consultants in 2018 and will which helps banks transform multiple siloed banking P&L. This demand is incremental, bringing new banks continue to grow this number through the Temenos channels and legacy applications into a fast, consistent, to market and driving incremental growth for Temenos. Learning Community frictionless customer journey. Through design-led > Complementing organic growth with thinking, user journeys and multi-country onboarding We continue to see very good demand from tier 1 and acquisitions. Acquisitions such as Avoka can capabilities, Temenos Infinity enables banks to 2 banks, which contributed 53% of the mix in the year. accelerate our product road map, bring us expertise orchestrate all their customers’ touchpoints These banks are undertaking multi-year projects with for example in digital front office, and increase and interactions. Temenos as their trusted partner and are a key part of our presence in key markets like the US. We will our revenue visibility and pipeline going forward. continue to use M&A to enhance and accelerate our organic growth in our core markets. We had robust growth across both our installed base and with new clients with a record total of 76 new customers in the year. 36 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements With its open API-first design, Temenos Infinity enables banks to connect with a wider ecosystem of financial and non-financial providers as well as the developer community to innovate and bring products to market faster. Temenos Infinity also integrates the recently purchased Avoka platform, the leading product in digital customer acquisition and onboarding. Temenos Infinity can be easily implemented through APIs as an independent front office platform on a third-party core banking system or integrated with the market-leading Temenos T24 Transact product. Temenos T24 Transact is the most complete core banking product leveraging the most advanced cloud native banking technology. Temenos T24 Transact takes the deep and extensive banking capabilities of Temenos T24 Core Banking, the world’s #1 core banking product supporting over 700 banks across all banking segments; and re-platforms them onto a new, cloud native and cloud agnostic platform. The isolation of the banking functionality from the technology platform has been a hallmark of Temenos products and has allowed Temenos T24 for the past 25 years to remain the most technologically advanced and functionally rich core banking product in the world. Temenos Infinity and Temenos T24 Transact can be deployed on-premise, in a customer cloud or managed by Temenos Cloud. All products run on Microsoft Azure, AWS and the Google Cloud platform. We will be demonstrating both of these products at our 2019 Temenos Community Forum, under the theme ‘Digital Banking Reloaded’, taking place in the Hague in April. Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 37 Performance Business and financial review continued “We had an outstanding financial FINANCIAL REVIEW REVENUES INTRODUCTION IFRS performance in 2018, with total IFRS (IFRS 15) group revenues were USD 840.9 million Opening thoughts software licensing growth of 21% We had an outstanding performance in 2018, which for 2018. IFRS (IAS18) group revenues were USD and total revenue growth of 15%. continues the momentum we built over the previous 846.6 million an increase of 15% versus 2017 on a reported basis. We also grew profit by 19% five years. We exceeded the top end of our guidance range, which we had increased at the time of our Q3 and delivered margin expansion results on the back of strong sales momentum. Our IFRS (IAS 18) total software licensing grew 22% in the of 111bps year-on-year. The business model of packaged, upgradeable software year on a reported basis, with broad based demand and strong growth across all geographies. We had investments we have made in with industry-leading R&D investment is enabling us to our strongest ever year in the US with two strategically consistently drive revenue, profit and cash generation. our products and our sales and important deals signed in 2018. We also saw marketing are clearly paying Our DSOs continued to decline to reach 114 days by strong growth in demand for SaaS and cloud which exceeded our expectations. SaaS total contract value off, and our clients recognize our year end and we closed the year with USD 287 million (TCV) increased over six times in 2018 to reach of cash on our balance sheet and leverage of 1.6x net relentless focus on innovation debt to Non-IFRS EBTIDA. USD 59 million by year end. which they benefit from when IFRS (IAS 18) maintenance revenues grew 12% on a working with us to transform their IFRS vs non-IFRS reported basis, and IFRS (IAS 18) services revenues To ensure that the presentation of results reflects the IT platforms. underlying performance of the business, Temenos grew 7% on a reported basis. publishes its key metrics on a non-IFRS basis as well Non-IFRS (IAS 18) The strength of our cash flows as on an IFRS basis. For transparency purposes, Temenos also publishes full reconciliations between Total non-IFRS (IAS 18) group revenue in 2018 was means we are recommending a IFRS and non-IFRS measures. Full definitions of non-IFRS USD 846.7 million, an increase of 15% compared 2018 dividend of CHF 0.75 per adjustments can be found on page 41. to 2017 on a reported basis, with minimal difference between IFRS (IAS 18) and non-IFRS (IAS 18). share, an increase of 15% on Highlights 2017. The outlook for 2019 is Full year highlights (non-IFRS) include: COST BASE very strong, and this is reflected in > Total software licensing growth of reported IFRS (21% constant currencies) Full year costs on an IFRS (IFRS 15) basis were USD our guidance for the year. We are > Maintenance growth of reported 622.1 million. Full year IFRS (IAS 18) costs were guiding for non-IFRS total software (12% constant currencies) USD 626.8 million, up from USD 557.1 million in licensing growth of 17.5% to > Total revenue growth of reported 2017. The majority of the cost increase was driven (14% constant currencies) by our continued investment in Sales and Marketing 22.5% and non-IFRS total revenue > Services margin of 11.5%, representing a margin and product as well as some contribution from the growth of between 16% and 19%. expansion of 1.9 percentage points acquisition of Rubik in May 2017. Services costs We are guiding for 2019 non> EBIT of USD 266.3 million and margin of 31.5% increased less than revenue as we continue to > EPS of USD 2.96, an increase of 21% successfully leverage our third party Partners to IFRS EBIT of USD 310 million to > Operating cash flow of USD 365 million with cash deliver the majority of our projects. USD 315 million, which implies a conversion of 117%, significantly ahead of our margin of c.31.7%. Our revenue guidance of 100% > DSOs reduced by five days to 114 days visibility is very high, driven by our > Recommended annual dividend of CHF 0.75 per pipeline growth and committed share an increase of 15%. spend.” 38 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Key Figures 31 December We ended 2018 with a leverage ratio of 1.6x net debt to non-IFRS EBITDA, and have significant capacity USDm, except EPS 2018 2017 to pursue inorganic growth opportunities to accelerate our organic growth in line with our M&A strategy Non-IFRS Revenue 846.7 736.7 if they arise. Non-IFRS EBIT 266.3 223.5 Non-IFRS EBIT margin 31.5% 30.3% DIVIDEND We have announced a dividend of CHF 0.75 per Cash generated from operations 365.1 299.7 share for 2018, representing an increase of 15%. Total assets 1,648.3 1,275.3 This is subject to shareholder approval at the AGM Non-IFRS earnings per share USD 2.96 USD 2.45 on 15 May 2019. The shares will trade ex-dividend on 17 May 2019, and the dividend record date will be set on 20 May 2019. The dividend will be Non-IFRS (IAS 18) CASH FLOWS paid on 21 May 2019. As with previous years, the Full year costs on a non-IFRS basis were USD 580.4 We generated USD 365 million of operating cash 2018 dividend will be paid as a distribution of capital million, up from USD 513.1 million in 2017. Of the in 2018, representing a cash conversion of 117% of contribution reserves and therefore be exempted of USD 46.4 million difference between the IFRS and nonEBITDA. We have maintained our guidance for 100%+ withholding tax. Temenos’ policy is to distribute a IFRS cost base, USD 37.2 million is due to adjustments conversion of EBITDA into operating cash flow in sustainable to growing dividend. made for the amortization of acquired intangibles costs 2019, as our recurring maintenance and SaaS revenue 114 and USD 9.2 million is due to adjustments made for continue to grow as well as continuing to focus on restructuring costs and acquisition-related charges. increasing our wallet share in our tier 1 and tier 2 clients. EBIT AND EARNINGS PER SHARE (EPS) DSOs decreased by nine days organically, however the DAYS IFRS acquisition of Avoka added four days of DSOs such that Full year IFRS (IFRS 15) EBIT was USD 218.8 million. we ended the year at 114 days. This is in line with our Full year IFRS (IAS 18) EBIT was USD 219.8 million target of reducing DSOs by five to ten days per annum compared to USD 178.3 million in 2017. Our business which we have maintained for 2019. We continue to model of selling packaged, upgradeable software target DSOs to reach 100 days in the medium term. DSOs continues to deliver strong revenue and profit growth. We generated free cash flow of USD 280 million, Days IFRS (IAS 18) EPS for 2018 was USD 2.32, compared an increase of 23% on 2017. to USD 1.90 in 2017. 31/12/18 114 114 BALANCE SHEET AND FINANCING 31/12/17 119 119 Non-IFRS (IAS 18) Temenos is highly cash generative with a strong balance 31/12/16 127 127 EBIT on a non-IFRS basis was USD 266.3 million, up sheet which enables: 31/12/15 154 154 from USD 223.5 million in 2017, an increase of 19% on a reported basis. EPS was USD 2.96, up from > The servicing of our debt obligations USD 2.45 in 2017, an increase of 21%. > Investment in the business, including industry leading R&D spend CASH CONVERSION Non-IFRS EBIT margin was 31.5%, up from 30.3% > Funding for targeted acquisitions USDm in 2017, as we continued to leverage our cost base > The payment of an annual dividend in particular across G&A and Services. Our Services > Returning additional value to shareholders through 313 operating margin was 11.5% for the year, up from 9.7% share buybacks. 2018 365 117% in 2017. With the launch of the Temenos Learning 263 Community, we have been able to industrialize our We continue to actively pursue acquisition opportunities 2017 114% 300 Partner training program, and reached over 5,000 third as a driver of shareholder value creation, as well as 225 party Temenos consultants by the end of the year. investing in the business to position ourselves for the 2016 114% 258 market opportunity. 171 2015 133% 227 EBITDA Operating cash flow Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 39 Performance Business and financial review continued Non-IFRS (IAS 18) IFRS USDm, except EBIT 2018 2018 2017 margin and EPS 2018 2017 Change IFRS 15 IAS 18 IAS18 Change Software licensing 307.4 248.5 24% 341.6 307.4 248.5 24% SaaS and subscription 75.6 67.5 12% 31.3 75.5 66.2 14% Total software licensing 383.0 316.1 21% 372.8 382.9 314.8 22% Maintenance 307.5 274.8 12% 314.4 307.5 274.8 12% Services 156.2 145.8 7% 153.7 156.2 145.8 7% Total revenues 846.7 736.7 15% 840.9 846.6 735.4 15% EBIT 266.3 223.5 19% 218.8 219.8 178.3 23% EBIT margin 31.5% 30.3% 26.0% 24.2% EPS (USD, fully diluted) 2.96 2.45 21% 2.31 2.32 1.90 22% LOOKING FORWARD MEDIUM TERM TARGETS Guidance for 2019 15% 5-10 Our 2019 non-IFRS guidance is as follows (in constant currencies): > Non-IFRS total software licensing growth at At least constant currency of 17.5% to 22.5% (implying total software licensing revenue of USD 438 million Total software licensing (CAGR) DSO reduction (days) to USD 457 million) > Non-IFRS total revenue growth at constant 10-15% 100%+ currency of 16% to 19% (implying total revenue of USD 975 million to USD 1,000 million) > Non-IFRS EBIT at constant currency of USD 310 million to USD 315 million (implying non-IFRS EBIT margin of 31.7% or c.130 bps Total revenue (CAGR) of EBITDA (cash conversion) expansion organically excluding the impact of Avoka) 100-150 17-18% > 100%+ conversion of EBITDA into operating cash flow > Tax rate of 15% to 16%. Medium term targets p.a. EBIT margin expansion (bps) Tax rate We have reconfirmed our medium term targets, which are as follows: At least 15% > Non-IFRS total software licensing growth of at least 15% CAGR > Non-IFRS total revenue growth of 10-15% CAGR > Non-IFRS EBIT margin improvement of 100 to 150 bps on average per annum EPS (CAGR) > Non-IFRS EPS growth of at least 15% CAGR > Cash conversion of over 100% of EBITDA p.a. > DSOs reducing by five to ten days per annum > Tax rate of 17% to 18%. 40 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Drivers of growth in 2019 and the medium term USDm 2018 2017 We continue to benefit from multiple structural drivers of growth which we will capitalize on to deliver our IFRS EBIT (IFRS 15) 218.8 178.3 medium term targets. IFRS 15 adjustment 1.0 – The total global spend we can address today with Deferred revenue write-down 0.1 1.3 our products is estimated to be USD 57 billion, of Amortisation of acquired intangibles 37.2 35.0 which only c.20% is spent with third party vendors. The spend with third parties is estimated to be growing at Restructuring 3.3 6.9 an 8% CAGR as banks are under increasing pressure Acquisition-related charges 5.9 2.0 from digitalization, changing customer expectations, Non-IFRS EBIT (IAS 18) 266.3 223.5 regulation and new competition and are moving away from spending in-house on maintaining legacy systems to buying best-in-class third party packaged software. We had our best ever year in the US, with the signing Banks running in-house legacy software spend an of multiple deals across large incumbent banks, neoaverage of 80% of their budgets on maintaining their banks and new entrants such as Paypal Inc. With the systems, with limited capacity to invest in innovation. By acquisition of Avoka, we now have c.450 people in moving to packaged, upgradeable software, banks are the US and are demonstrating our commitment to this able to significantly lower their Total Cost of Ownership, market and our ability to win deals and drive revenue increase their spending on innovation and dramatically growth. reduce speed to market for new innovation and product. This enables them to better understand and service FINAL REMARKS their customers, ultimately driving customer acquisition, I am delighted with our performance in 2018. We retention and profitability. have proven our ability to deliver sustainable, long term growth in revenue and profit through the strength Temenos’ business model makes us the leader in our of our business model. As the leader in our market we market. We have the highest rate of investment in are confident in continuing to capture significant market R&D in the industry, with a rich product road map that share, as demonstrated by our achievements in 2018 gives clients the confidence to select Temenos as their as well as the strength of our revenue visibility and strategic partner. pipeline generation at the start of 2019. I am confident in delivering our guidance for 2019 and the medium Tier 1 and 2 clients contributed 53% of total software term. On a personal note, I was honored to become licensing revenues in 2018, yet to date we have only CEO of Temenos in March 2019. We have incredible captured around 4% of the addressable wallet in our strength and depth in our management team and we average tier 1 or 2 client. This is a significant focus for will continue executing our winning strategy to drive our us going forward as our dedicated account managers growth and deliver returns for our shareholders. focus on expanding our relationships in these clients. Max Chuard Our installed base continues to represent 60% of total Chief Executive Officer software licensing revenues, and we expect revenues Temenos AG from the installed base to grow at a CAGR of 15-20% in the medium term driven by cross-selling, progressive renovation and relicensing. We have seen very strong growth in demand for SaaS and cloud from banks across all tiers in 2018, which exceeded our expectations. Total Contract Value increase over 6 times in the year to reach USD 59 million, and we expect our SaaS revenue to double in 2019 through strong organic growth and the impact of the Avoka acquisition. In the medium term we expect our SaaS revenue to grow at a CAGR of c.35% organically. Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 41 Performance Principal risks and uncertainties RESPONSIBLE RISK MANAGEMENT RISK MANAGEMENT ECONOMIC, POLITICAL AND SOCIAL Temenos Risk management policy is aligned with ENVIRONMENT RISK ISO: 31000 Risk management – Principles and Temenos derives all of its licensing, SaaS, maintenance FRAMEWORK guidelines. It defines the methodology, roles and responsibilities, reporting and monitoring for key risks. and services revenues from banks and other financial institutions. The banking industry is sensitive to changes Temenos’ operational management is responsible for in global economic conditions, financial markets and managing day-to-day risks. Periodical risk assessments is highly susceptible to unforeseen external events, are performed within business units and summarized such as political instability, terrorist attacks, recession, results reported to management along with mitigation inflation or other adverse occurrences that may result IDENTIFY plans where appropriate. The Audit Committee oversees in a significant decline in the use and/or profitability of the program and reviews key risks of the Group. financial services. Any event that results in decreased consumer or corporate use of financial services, or We have implemented a robust internal control and cost-cutting measures by financial services companies, risk management system for financial reporting that may negatively affect the level of demand for Temenos goes beyond statutory requirements. All relevant risks products and services. ASSESS are identified, formally assessed and documented. For each risk we have implemented specific controls In recent years, there have been substantial changes in and mitigation plans. Their effectiveness is regularly the banking industry, including continuing consolidation evaluated through a self-assessment process which is among market participants, the introduction of wide independently tested by internal and external auditors. ranging regulatory changes and extensive technological PRIORITIZE The following sections outline the risks that we innovation. These changes have inter alia resulted in increased IT spending by banks and driven market have identified and track. They represent an participants to replace legacy systems, leading to aggregated view. increased demand for Temenos’ solutions. If the pace of change were to decrease, demand for Temenos’ products and services may decrease, which could have RESPOND a material adverse effect on Temenos’ business, financial condition and results. Temenos’ global presence, comprehensive product offering and market leadership help to mitigate this risk. REVIEW AND MONITOR 42 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements LAW AND LITIGATION Temenos legal teams are aligned to business operations IP PROTECTION Temenos operates in various legal jurisdictions and and are involved early in any decisions which may Temenos relies upon a combination of copyright, as such is subject to various legal and regulatory incur legal implications. The legal team reviews and trademark and trade secrecy laws, trade secrets, requirements. Temenos may have legal proceedings or provides guidance on complex client contracts to ensure confidentiality procedures, contractual provisions litigious actions brought against it. The outcome of these contractual agreements align to local commerce laws and license arrangements to establish and protect proceedings or actions are intrinsically uncertain and the and regulations. Whenever possible, Temenos tries its proprietary rights and Temenos’ ability to do so actual outcomes could differ from the assessments made to contractually limit its liabilities. This is covered further effectively is crucial to its success. Temenos enters into by management in prior periods, resulting in increases in Foreign Operations. agreements with its employees, Partners, distributors and in provisions for litigation in the accounts of Temenos. clients that seek to limit the distribution of and otherwise Adverse outcomes to legal proceedings or litigious More broadly, the risk of potential breach of legislative protect its proprietary information. However, Temenos actions could result in the award of significant damages or regulatory requirements through general operations, cannot give full assurances that the steps taken will be or injunctive measures that could hinder Temenos’ ability such as breach of listing requirements or group level adequate to prevent misappropriation of its proprietary to conduct business and could have a material adverse legal requirements are managed through group level information as all of the protection measures afford effect on its reputation, business, financial position, profit, controls, compliance policies and procedures. only limited protection. Temenos’ proprietary rights and cash flows. could be challenged, invalidated, held unenforceable Policy compliance requirements are periodically or otherwise affected. Certain proprietary technology Litigation of intellectual property infringement claims may assessed through Risk Management processes and may be vulnerable to disclosure or misappropriation increase as a result of Temenos acquiring companies reviewed by Internal Audit to provide comfort over by employees, Partners or other third parties and third which rely on third-party code including open source adequacy of policies, processes and compliance. parties might reverse-engineer or otherwise obtain and code, Temenos expanding into new areas of the use technology and information that Temenos regards banking industry resulting in greater overlap in the as proprietary. Accordingly Temenos might not be able functional scope of products, and increasing assertion to protect its proprietary rights against unauthorized of intellectual property infringement claims by nonthird-party copying or utilization, which may undermine practicing entities that do not design, manufacture, Temenos’ market position and deprive it of revenues. or distribute products. Temenos may not be able to detect unauthorized use Although Temenos has implemented controls and of its intellectual property, or take appropriate steps to believes that its products do not infringe upon the enforce Temenos’ intellectual property rights. Temenos’ intellectual property rights of others, and that Temenos products are used globally and are therefore subject has all the rights necessary to utilize the intellectual to varying laws governing the protection of software property employed in its business, Temenos is still subject and intellectual property in each of these jurisdictions. to the risk of claims alleging infringement of third-party Temenos cannot guarantee that its software and intellectual property rights, including in respect of intellectual property will be afforded the same level of intellectual property that has been developed by third protection in each jurisdiction, as some jurisdictions may parties and acquired by Temenos in business or asset offer no effective means to enforce Temenos’ rights to its purchase transactions. Responding to such claims, proprietary information, which could result in competitors regardless of whether they are with or without merit and offering products that incorporate features equivalent negotiations or litigation relating to such claims could to Temenos’ most technologically advanced features, require Temenos to spend significant sums in litigation which could have a material adverse effect on Temenos’ costs, payment of damages and expend significant business, results of operations and financial condition. management resources. Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 43 Performance Principal risks and uncertainties continued IP PROTECTION CONTINUED UNDETECTED DEFECTS OR SECURITY KEY PERSONNEL Any legal action that Temenos may bring to enforce its VULNERABILITIES Temenos operates in an industry in which there is intense proprietary rights could involve enforcement against a Temenos’ products and offerings may contain defects competition for experienced and highly qualified Partner or other third party, which may have a material or security vulnerabilities that Temenos has not been individuals. The success of Temenos is partly dependent adverse effect on its ability, and its clients’ ability, to use able to detect and that could adversely affect the on its ability to identify, attract, develop, motivate and that Partner’s or other third parties’ products. Moreover, performance of the products and negatively impact retain highly skilled and qualified management and litigation, which could involve significant financial and Temenos’ relationship with its clients.. It is not always other personnel, particularly those with expertise in the management resources, may be necessary to enforce possible to identify and rectify all errors or defects during banking software industry. If Temenos fails to recruit Temenos’ proprietary rights. Any material infringement a product or services developmental phase, and more and retain the numbers and types of employees that of Temenos’ proprietary technology could have an commonly Temenos has discovered minor software it requires, its business, operating results and financial adverse effect on its reputation, business, financial defects in certain new versions and enhancements of its condition may be adversely affected. position, profit and cash flows. Our Partner contracts products after they have been introduced. The detection are designed in a manner which provides clarity and subsequent correction of any errors or defects can Incentive and recognition programs are utilized to align and understanding of both parties with regard to the be expensive and time consuming, and it is not always staff efforts to organizational objectives. Staff receive protection and safeguarding of their IP. possible to meet the expectations of clients regarding various training to ensure they have the necessary skills the timeliness and the quality of the defect resolution to perform their duties. We have launched various CSR process. In a worst case scenario, it might not be initiatives to demonstrate our commitment to employees. possible to wholly rectify certain defects or entirely meet Career and succession planning are carried out client expectations. In such circumstances it is possible annually to provide for continuity of operations that clients may pursue claims for refunds, damages, attempt to terminate existing arrangements, request replacement software or seek other concessions. A defect or error in any newly developed software of Temenos could result in adverse client reactions and negative publicity, as Temenos’ clients and potential clients are highly sensitive to defects in the software they use. Any negative publicity could hinder the successful marketing of the new software, reducing demand for the software. A defect or error in new versions or enhancements of Temenos’ existing products could result in the loss of orders or a delay in the receipt of orders and could result in reduced revenues, delays in market acceptance, diversion of development resources, product liability claims or increased service and warranty costs, any of which may have a material adverse effect on Temenos’ business, results of operations and financial condition. Any claim brought against Temenos in connection with defective software, regardless of its merits, could entail substantial expense and require a significant amount of time and attention by management personnel. We continually enhance our quality program as part of the Software Development Life Cycle. We have centralized our product security group and practices. Extensive testing is carried out to identify and resolve any issues which may adversely affect the functionality, security and other performance of our products and offerings. 44 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements FOREIGN OPERATIONS Foreign exchange and/or interest COMPLIANCE WITH THE TERMS OF Temenos systems are currently installed at more than rate fluctuations TEMENOS CREDIT FACILITIES 3,000 live sites in 150 countries and it has sales and Temenos’ financial statements are expressed in US Temenos has credit facilities in place with a syndicate support offices in over 40 countries. Temenos’ future dollars and Temenos generates the majority of its of banks. The facilities contain financial and negative revenue growth depends on the continued successful revenues in US dollars. However, a significant portion of covenants, undertakings and event of default provisions. expansion of its development, sales, marketing, support its operating expenses are incurred in currencies other Moreover, the facilities contain cross-default provisions and service organizations, through direct or indirect than the US dollar, particularly in Euros, Swiss francs, such that a default under another debt instrument, such channels, in the various countries around the world Rupees and Pounds Sterling. as bonds, could result in a default under the credit where its current and potential clients are located, facilities and acceleration of the debt thereunder. including in many developing countries. Such expansion Furthermore, Temenos is exposed to the fluctuation in will require the opening of new offices, hiring new exchange rates of each of these currencies. Temenos The inability of Temenos to draw under the credit personnel and managing operations in widely disparate makes efforts to mitigate its foreign exchange risk by facilities to satisfy its financing requirements, could locations with different economies, legal systems, aligning its revenue streams to currencies that match its have an adverse effect on Temenos’ growth. languages and cultures, and will require significant cost base and hedges most of the residual exposure. Compliance with the terms is monitored on management attention and financial resources. However, such hedging may not be sufficient protection monthly basis. Temenos’ operations are also affected by other factors against significant fluctuations in the exchange rate of inherent in international business activities, such as: the US dollar to other currencies, in particular those currencies in which Temenos incurs operating expenses, > Differing or even conflicting laws and regulation generates revenues or holds assets. Such fluctuations of risk and compliance in the banking sector may impose additional costs on Temenos and have a > Difficulties in staffing including works councils, labor material adverse effect on Temenos’ financial condition unions and immigration laws and foreign operations and results of operations, and on the comparability of its > The complexity of managing competing and results between financial periods. overlapping tax regimes > Differing import and export licensing requirements; Temenos uses a combination of various techniques to > Operational difficulties in countries with a high protect against currency and rates fluctuations. corruption perception index > Protectionist trade policies such as tariffs; > Limited protection for intellectual property rights in some countries > Difficulties enforcing intellectual property and contractual rights in certain jurisdictions > Differing data protection and privacy laws > Political and economic instability, outbreaks of hostilities, terrorism, mass immigration, international embargoes, sanctions and boycotts. The risks associated with the factors stated above will intensify as Temenos expands further into new countries and markets through organic growth or acquisitions. Additionally laws and regulations and governments’ approaches to their enforcement, as well as Temenos’ products and services, are continuing to change and evolve. Compliance with the laws and regulations in the various jurisdictions may involve significant management time, costs and require costly changes to products and/ or business practices. Risks related to foreign operations are regularly assessed and mitigated as needed. Specific policies and procedures are in place to ensure compliance with export control and sanctions, anti-bribery and corruption, anti-money laundering, data protection and privacy and other legislation. Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 45 Performance Principal risks and uncertainties continued MANAGING CLIENT RELATIONSHIP STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIPS CLOUD AND SAAS SOLUTIONS Temenos enters into long term relationships with its Temenos delivers its products to clients directly and Cloud and SaaS technology is inherently complex clients. The contractual arrangements supporting these indirectly through distributors and through strategic and relatively new to the banking and financial relationships are often varied and diverse to reflect alliances with IT service providers. Temenos’ strategic market sector. Accordingly, Temenos may be subject the nature of the requirements of the client factoring in Partners sell to clients and provide implementation to changing regulatory requirements, evolving client specific legal and cultural requirements of the client’s services through a contract with the client, rather than attitudes and technical complexities in developing a new operating environment as well as the multiple stages of with Temenos. These relationships with IT service business offering and support services. Temenos may the relationship. providers and strategic Partners help to drive cofail to achieve desired operating profit results in this new innovation of Temenos’ products, profitably expand market due to regulatory changes, inability to develop Temenos has increased its focus on assessing client Temenos’ routes-to-market to enhance market coverage a competitive product or which appeals to its clients. satisfaction and is proactively seeking and responding and provide high quality services in connection with to client feedback. Temenos’ product offerings. Any failure to maintain By providing cloud technology to clients, Temenos will and expand these relationships could adversely affect hold client data. Hardware or data center failures, Improved mechanisms for tracking and oversight of Temenos’ products and services which, in turn, would product defects or system errors could result in data contract clauses are utilized by the global contract have an adverse effect on Temenos’ ability to compete loss or corruption, or cause the information held to be team to provide additional comfort over the effective successfully with its competitors and therefore negatively incomplete or contain inaccuracies. The availability of management of client contractual arrangements. affect the results of operations and financial condition. Temenos’ application suite could be interrupted by a number of factors, such as the failure of a key supplier, Temenos aims to build long term strategic relationships its network or software systems due to human or other with clients in order to maximize the value provided to error and security breaches. both parties. Through strong relationships, Temenos is able to further develop products according to industry Although Temenos employs strict security, data needs and requirements. protection and privacy measures there is a risk that such measures could be breached as a result of third party action, employee error and malfeasance, or otherwise, and if as a result unauthorized access is obtained to client data, which may include personally identifiable information about users, Temenos could suffer significant reputational damage and be exposed to liabilities. Temenos is constantly enhancing its cloud and SaaS offering and security. In addition, Temenos holds SSAE 18 SOC 1 and 2, ISO 9001 and ISO 27001 certifications to provide a greater degree of assurance to clients. 46 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements SOFTWARE IMPLEMENTATION MERGERS AND ACQUISITIONS SECURITY, BUSINESS CONTINUITY PROJECT MANAGEMENT Temenos pursues a strategy of making targeted AND RESILIENCY The implementation of Temenos’ software and acquisitions. The risks associated with such a strategy As a software technology vendor and SaaS provider, integration of various product components is a complex include the availability of suitable candidates and we face various cyber and other security threats, process requiring skilled and experienced personnel. successful integration. Risk of failure to assimilate including: The implementation of Temenos’ software is often operations and personnel, may materialize. The process performed in part or wholly by service delivery Partners of integrating an acquired company or business > Attempts to gain unauthorized access to sensitive as well as committed resources of the client. The may create unforeseen operating difficulties and information and data complex nature of the solutions makes it necessary expenditures. > Threats to the safe and secure operation of our to provide training and education on the operation software solutions and services of the product. Further consolidation in Temenos’ industry may decrease > Threats to the safety of our Directors, officers and the number of potential desirable acquisition targets. employees The reliance on third party capabilities, and the complex Failure to acquire, integrate and derive the desired value > Threats to the security of our facilities and nature of product customization and installation of any businesses or assets in the future could materially infrastructure requirements mean that there is a high potential for adversely affect Temenos’ business, results of operations > Threats from terrorist acts or other acts of aggression. unforeseen events to occur delaying the progress of and financial condition. implementations. Our clients and Partners (including subcontractors) face In addition, acquired businesses might not perform similar threats. Temenos focuses heavily on training the staff and as anticipated, resulting in charges for the impairment Partners responsible for implementation of software of goodwill and other intangible assets on Temenos’ Although we utilize various procedures and controls to ensure a strong mix of qualified project managers statement of financial position. to monitor and mitigate the risk of these threats, there and technical product expertise. Temenos ensures the cannot be full assurance that these procedures and adequacy of skills through requiring certification of staff Detailed integration planning is utilized to ensure a controls will be sufficient. These threats could lead to and Partners in Temenos Implementation Methodology smooth transition of product offerings and services. losses of sensitive information or capabilities, harm to and products. Launch of Temenos Learning Community Legal, commercial and personnel matters are also personnel, infrastructure or products, and/or damage (TLC) shows our further commitment to this area. considered prior to integration in order to limit exposure to our reputation as well as our Partners’ ability to to unexpected losses or damage. perform on our contracts. Implementation teams are also trained to identify and effectively manage any unforeseen events and a suite Cyber threats are evolving and include, but are not of risk management tools are used to monitor and limited to: track potential issues which may adversely impact the successful installation of software. Project governance > Attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, boards are held monthly to oversee the delivery of the information or intellectual property implementation against milestones. > Disruption to or denial of service > Other malicious or criminal activities. Temenos Implementation Methodology is periodically reviewed and updated in order to maintain high These threats could lead to disruptions in mission critical standards for Temenos staff and Partners. Identified initial systems, unauthorized release of confidential, personal project risks receive an increased level of review and or otherwise protected information (ours or that of our analysis in order to more effectively mitigate and monitor employees, clients or Partners), and corruption of data, them throughout the life of the implementation project. networks or systems. In addition, we could be impacted by cyber threats or other disruptions or vulnerabilities found in products we use or in our Partners’ or clients’ systems that are used in connection with our business. These events, if not prevented or effectively mitigated, could damage our reputation, require remedial actions and lead to loss of business, regulatory actions, potential liability and other financial losses. Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 47 Performance Principal risks and uncertainties continued SECURITY, BUSINESS CONTINUITY As part of the periodic Risk Assessment of IT INSURANCE infrastructure, potential physical and security Temenos has taken out a variety of insurance policies AND RESILIENCY CONTINUED vulnerabilities are factored into the process for in areas where a loss would have a significant financial We provide software products and services to various developing a resilient and robust IT infrastructure. impact, or to ensure safety of employees while on clients who also face cyber threats. Our software products and services may themselves be subject to business trips. The physical security of IT infrastructure and personnel cyber threats and/or they may not be able to detect are kept secure through standardized general IT controls Across the various local legal jurisdictions in which or deter threats, or effectively to mitigate resulting across Temenos in line with best practice standards. Temenos operates, there are various legal requirements losses. These losses could adversely affect our clients and our Group. The impact of these factors is difficult to hold certain insurance policies such as workers A Business Continuity Management framework provides compensation policies and public liability for example. to predict, but one or more of them could result in the contingency planning for all mission critical business loss of information or capabilities, harm to individuals functions and process within the organization. Temenos’ local offices manage their legally required or property, damage to our reputation, loss of business, regulatory actions and potential liability, any one policies with oversight and review by Temenos Head Information systems are regularly audited internally Office. Each office is reviewed and as necessary of which could have a material adverse effect on and externally to provide a reasonable assurance on covered for property damage, business interruption and our financial position, results of operations and/or effective management of these risks. public liability risks. Information and IT infrastructure is cash flows. also covered by regional and local computer policies. From an organizational perspective, the Security and Privacy Committee provides the Group level oversight. Temenos Head Office also manages all global policies. The main global policies provide coverage across core In terms of business processes, security assurance is business areas such as Professional Indemnity liability integrated into all business processes related to R&D, (covering Errors and Omissions, Cyber Liability and the supply chain, sales and marketing, delivery and Data Protection), Cyber Insurance, Crime Insurance, technical services. In addition, Temenos reinforces the Global Travel Insurance and Directors and Officers implementation of the cyber security assurance system policy that is providing the professional coverage. by conducting internal audits and receiving external certification and auditing from security authorities or All insurance policies are reviewed periodically to independent third-party agencies. ensure that Temenos, our offices and employees are adequately covered in line with the most actual In connection with personnel management, our and comprehensive insurance portfolio software for employees, Partners and consultants are required companies. to comply with security policies and requirements established by Temenos and receive appropriate training so that the concept of security is deeply rooted throughout Temenos. To promote cyber security, Temenos will take appropriate action against those who violate cyber assurance policies. Employees may also incur personal legal liability for violation of relevant laws and regulations. If Temenos security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained to Temenos’ IT systems, Temenos’ business could be disrupted and Temenos may suffer financial losses as a result of the loss of confidential client information or otherwise. Temenos’ insurance coverage might not cover claims against it for loss or security breach of data or other indirect or consequential damages. If Temenos experiences interruptions in the availability of its application suite, Temenos’ reputation could be harmed, which may have a material adverse effect on Temenos’ business and financial condition. 48 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements INTERNAL CONTROLS FAILURES Although Temenos considers the controls and procedures it currently has in place to minimize the financial reporting, legal, disclosure and other regulatory, compliance and operational risks associated with its business to be adequate, Temenos recognizes that the efficacy of some of these controls and procedures depends significantly on employees and contractors, and on input from external parties and all of these controls and procedures need to be kept under regular review, particularly given the pace at which Temenos’ business has developed and generally increasing regulatory scrutiny. There is no guarantee that Temenos will not be targeted by those willing to commit fraud against Temenos. Such an action could come from either an internal or external source and could result in a significant adverse impact on Temenos’ business, results of operations and financial condition. Internal controls are regularly reviewed, updated and tested. Internal audit serves as a third line of defense to provide assurance on the effectiveness of risk management and internal controls system. Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 49 Operating responsibly OPERATING RESPONSIBLY 50 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements OPERATING RESPONSIBLY Message from the CEO 52 Our CSR approach 54 Achieving business excellence 57 Operating responsibly 59 Investing in our people 66 Enabling access to financial services 75 Investing in our communities 76 About this report 80 Independent assurance report 81 UN Global Compact index 82 GRI content index 83 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 51 Operating responsibly Message from the CEO ACHIEVING EXCELLENCE RESPONSIBLY and enabling new entrants with new services and In addition, we focused our actions on encouraging Max Chuard business models. At the same time, society is making gender equality and inclusive education for all, by Chief Executive new demands on business. Compared to their parents, building girls’ restrooms in two schools in India, helping Officer tech-savvy millennials expect more transparency, trust, girls stay in school and gain equal access to education and equitable and ethical growth from the businesses and opportunities in life. Temenos employees volunteered they work for and the brands they buy from. This is their time and expertise in helping over 1,500 high changing the role of business. school students gain digital skills and unleash future opportunity with access to jobs, health and finance. Understanding the changing needs and meeting the expectations of our stakeholders is an important aspect Our Temenosians are the most important and valuable of our corporate strategy. Operating Responsibly Company asset constituting the Temenos culture and is in our DNA, part of our Temenos values. For helping the Company bring exceptional value to our 25 years, we have been committed to working stakeholders. We pride ourselves in relying on and with all our stakeholders to build strong, long term investing in our employees, a global team of diverse, relationships and create sustainable value for them. highly committed and talented people. We strongly These commitments have guided the way we operate believe in adding value every day and we want our internally, innovate and deliver on our business mission. employees to feel the same. Our People are the KEY. In May 2018 we renewed our commitment to the In 2018, we celebrated a number of achievements: 10 UN Global Compact principles to making it a part “We are committed to giving back of our strategy, culture and day-to-day operations, to >> The inclusion of Temenos into the SXI Switzerland to the communities where our engaging in collaborative projects which advance the Sustainability 25® Index – among the 25 Swiss employees, Partners and clients broader development goals of the United Nations, stocks from the SMI® Expanded Index with the best particularly the Sustainable Development Goals and to sustainability scores; live and work.” annually reporting on our progress to our stakeholders >> The Best Workplace award by Great Place to and the general public. Work®, together with our people in Greece; and >> The Prize of the Geneva Economy 2018 by the These commitments brought us together with other Geneva Chamber of Commerce, Industry and As I reflect on 2018, I am proud business leaders, regulators and international Services (CCIG), together with our people in Geneva organizations for the World Economic Forum of what we have accomplished Sustainable Development Impact Summit in New York All of these are recognizing our contribution to our global together with our people. in September. For two days, we brainstormed on how commercial success, as well as the local economy by to respond to emerging social and environmental helping attract and retain talent in these countries. In November we celebrated our 25-year anniversary trends and how to shape the agenda for action on together with our people in our 67 offices in sustainability. 2018 was also an important milestone on our long term 41 countries, a landmark during our Temenos environmental sustainability path. Temenos received journey. More change has taken place in banking I am proud of the contribution Temenos is making to ISO 14001:2015 certification for having implemented over the last five years than in the previous 20. After the global effort to achieve the SDGs. As a global an Environmental Management System (EMS) in having served the industry for 25 years, we have built company, it is our ethical responsibility to use our the Company’s three offices in India (Chennai and one of the world’s most dynamic banking communities, technology, expertise and resources to help the Bangalore), which account for 52% of the total global where we share best technology banking practices world’s most vulnerable communities. This is a global employee workforce and are the hub of our product and see their impact on our stakeholders. The banking issue that is particularly close to our hearts. Some two development activities, demonstrating our commitment industry is undergoing a once-in-a-generation billion people in the world have no access to financial to improving our environmental performance and reinvention. services or a bank account, which means no credit addressing climate change. and no chance to pay for education, start a business, Climate change, the depletion of natural resources or save for the future. With every new software system As we look to the future, I would like to thank all our and rising poverty and inequality are interlinked and we implement in emerging markets, we are helping stakeholders for their commitment and trust in Temenos. pose challenges to our communities, businesses and banks lower the cost of financial services, enabling We will continue to make our commitments clear to all governments. Technology is changing and shaping access to financial services, thereby making them more our stakeholders, further the social dialogue and drive social behavior by enabling new ways to produce, affordable to the people who need them most. continuous improvements to meet and exceed their distribute and consume information while playing a expectations. Our people together with our expertise major role in business strategy, performance and social We are committed to giving back to the communities and digital technologies can and should be enablers for development. Digital technologies combined with where our employees, Partners and clients live and social change. tougher regulations and competitive market conditions, work. In 2018, through the Temenos Adopt iT project, are accelerating change, changing consumer habits we built computer labs in three schools in India. Max Chuard Chief Executive Officer 52 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements ABOUT TEMENOS Founded in 1993, Temenos AG is the world’s leader OUR VISION in banking software, partnering with banks and other financial institutions to transform their businesses and stay To provide financial ahead of a changing marketplace. Over 3,000 firms across the globe, including 41 of the top 50 banks, institutions, of any size, rely on Temenos to process both the daily transactions and client interactions of more than 500 million anywhere in the world, the banking customers. Temenos offers cloud native, cloud software to thrive in the agnostic front office and core banking, payments, fund management and wealth management software products digital banking age enabling banks to deliver consistent, frictionless customer journeys and gain operational excellence. Temenos clients are proven to be more profitable than their peers: over a seven-year period, they enjoyed on average a HOW WE ACHIEVE IT 31% higher return on assets, a 36% higher return on equity and an 8.6 percentage point lower cost/income ratio We do this by building, delivering than banks running legacy applications. and supporting the world’s Headquartered in Geneva, Switzerland, the Company best packaged, continuously currently has 64 offices in 40 countries and had non-IFRS upgradeable end-to-end banking revenues of USD 840 million for the year ended 31 December 2018. Temenos has been a public company software which is both cloud listed on the SIX Swiss Exchange (TEMN) since June native and cloud agnostic; 2001.Temenos employs 5,744 people worldwide, through design led thinking, including full-time employees and contractors. In December 2018, Temenos acquired Avoka, a US-based we orchestrate all our customers’ leader in digital customer acquisition and onboarding. For touchpoints to create a frictionless more information please refer to Strategic acquisitions and customer journey investment on page 9. OUR VALUES We see things differently from We believe in the power We operate responsibly to build everyone else of people a sustainable business Average people see difficulties, People make things happen. People We walk the extra mile to build strong exceptional people see opportunities. define our destiny. and lasting relationships with our stakeholders and create sustainable Read more on page 20 Read more on page 66 value for them. Read more on page 50 We inspire, through living up We place clients at the core of to our full potential what we do We dream big and pursue our Everything starts and ends with our goals fearlessly. clients’ goals. Read more on page 24 Read more on page 28 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 53 Operating responsibly Our CSR approach OUR COMMITMENTS EU Directive 2014/95/EU on disclosure of nonOUR ACHIEVEMENTS Temenos is committed to achieving business excellence financial and diversity information by certain large Throughout 2018, as a result of our active dialogue and long term value through superior financial undertakings and groups, India Companies Act 2013, with our stakeholders, we continued to benchmark performance while operating responsibly and with UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 and the UK Equality our sustainability performance against international integrity, honoring ethical values and respecting its Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations business benchmarks and voluntary, in order to better stakeholders, communities and the environment. We 2017. address the needs of our stakeholders. strongly believe that our long term success requires a sustainable business model that incorporates corporate In addition, we align our commitments and CSR In recognition of our sustainability performance responsibility as an important part of our business reporting with voluntary global standards. We as well as contribution to the local economies where operation. base our CSR reporting on the Global Reporting Temenos operates: Initiative (GRI) Standards. We have endorsed the We are committed to: United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), and are >> The SXI Switzerland Sustainability 25® Index committed to submitting an annual Communication included Temenos among the 25 Swiss stocks >> Building long term sustainable relationships with on Progress implementing the UNGC’s 10 principles. from the SMI® Expanded Index with the best our stakeholders We are members of the Global Compact Network sustainability scores >> Managing our operations in a responsible, secure Switzerland. We have aligned our Business Code of >> The Great Place to Work® Competition and sustainable way Conduct and corporate policies with the UNGC’s recognized one of the Temenos offices globally, >> Helping our clients transform into smart, sustainable 10 principles on the four issue areas of Human Rights, Temenos Greece, as one of the Best Workplaces organizations Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption, as well as in the country >> Achieving both financial and non-financial value the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. >> The Geneva Chamber of Commerce, Industry (business and social value) for our stakeholders. We support the UN Sustainable Development and Services awarded the ‘Prize of the Geneva Goals (SDGs) and publicly report ways in which Economy 2018’ in recognition of our long term our operation as well as community investment are contribution to the Geneva economy OUR ACTIONS contributing to the global effort to achieve the SDGs. >> Our Environmental Management System in our We have gone beyond the requirements of the law and have integrated CSR into our corporate strategy, three offices in India received ISO 14001:2015 In 2018, Temenos joined the World Economic certification. business principles, policies and processes, decisionForum (WEF) as a Member. Temenos representatives making and governance. Our CSR action plan focuses participated in a number of key WEF events, 2019 Goals on three areas: demonstrating the significance of our contribution To continue to target international standards, to the banking industry and more broadly to society frameworks and business benchmarks relevant to 1. How to manage our CSR strategy as a whole, including the Sustainable Development the interests of our stakeholders, such as indices, 2. How to monitor, analyze and assess our ESG Impact Summit that took place in New York on ISO certifications and performance ratings. footprint, with the use of non-financial KPIs 24-25 September 2018. This WEF conference aimed 3. How to communicate and raise awareness about to accelerate progress on the UN’s Sustainable our CSR strategy to all stakeholders internally and Development Goals and Paris Agreement and discuss externally. the wider application of technologies to find solutions to climate change. It was not just a meeting but a think OUR ENDORSEMENTS tank, a joining of minds from industry, regulators and International organizations, industry peer pressure international organizations to strategize on how to and stakeholder expectations play a major role respond to new emerging trends and shape the new in promoting responsibility, transparency and agenda for action. Temenos’ attendance confirms our accountability in corporate governance and business commitment to furthering the sustainability agenda. processes. Regulation as well as voluntary compliance with international standards are central to our CSR Reporting, verification and assurance are important strategy. Temenos complies with the requirements tools for us to measure the CSR progress as well as of many international organizations, governmental document our non-financial performance to all our organizations and industry standards, such as the stakeholders, while remaining competitive and ahead of the game. Enabling Access to Financial Services Operating Responsibly Investing in Our Communities Investing in Our Communities Investing in Our People Enabling Access to Financial Services Investing in Our Communities Investing in Our People Operating Responsibly Enabling Access to Financial Services Investing in Our Communities Investing in Our Communities Operating Responsibly 54 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT experiences working with us, as well as their have integrated CSR considerations into our dialogue Engaging with our key stakeholders informs our expectations from us. During the past years, our clients, with our stakeholders, drawing upon international decision-making, strengthens our relationships and helps prospects, investors and suppliers have addressed CSR frameworks such as the United Nations Global us deliver our commitments and succeed as a business. as part of their evaluation of Temenos as an IT partner Compact, the UN Guiding Principles on Business and In order to achieve our goals, we recognize that we through client, prospect and investors’ questionnaires, Human Rights and the GRI Standards. need to work in partnership with those stakeholders who supplier and rating agencies’ assessments, requesting for share our commitment and have a stake in our business. documentation of our CSR strategy and compliance with 2019 Goals These engagements may take many forms, in order for voluntary international sustainability standards. To annually review the main material issues for Temenos us to identify the significant economic, environmental to gain feedback on our existing CSR strategy and and social impacts on Temenos and better understand We believe that regular, open and transparent possible new areas for action. the interests and expectations of our stakeholders. communication with our stakeholders is the most suitable We conduct annual surveys with clients, Partners and medium to assess the impact of our operations and our employees to learn more about our stakeholders’ performance as a corporate citizen. That is why we STAKEHOLDER EXAMPLES OF STAKEHOLDER LOCATION GROUPS ENGAGEMENT KEY CONCERNS IN REPORT Employees >> Employee survey: MyVoice, New Joiner Survey >> Training and development >> Investing in >> Career development framework: Pathfinder >> Internal communication Our People Frequency: Daily >> Performance management process: Compass >> Job satisfaction >> Training and Development: Temenos University and multiple soft>> Employee recognition skills, languages and technical training for upskilling >> Responsible, secure and fun workplace >> Internal Communication: uni-T intranet, social media, Marketing, HR and regional Newsletters >> Employee recognition: Regional employee recognition awards, C-level awards, Club and Chairman’s Club >> Internal global mobility scheme >> Business Code of Conduct and linked policies >> Employee volunteering and fundraising matching scheme Clients >> Client surveys: Client Voice and Client Satisfaction project >> Client communication >> Achieving Business >> Product Board and Steering Committees >> Client satisfaction Excellence: Frequency: Daily >> Annual Temenos Community Forum >> Quality, security and responsibility in Focus on Client >> Temenos Innovation Jams delivery and implementation Engagement >> Temenos MarketPlace >> Data privacy and protection >> Client newsletters, Marketing updates and social media >> Client Support Portal >> Audits >> Temenos Security and Privacy Committee >> Business Code of Conduct, data privacy and protection and corporate security policies Investors >> Annual General Meeting of Shareholders >> Economic performance >> Annual Report >> Annual Capital Markets Day >> Transparent and ethical corporate Frequency: Weekly >> Roadshows, investor and analyst meetings governance >> Financial press releases, videos, webcasts and social media >> Accurate, timely and responsible >> Annual Report communication >> Corporate website >> Business Code of Conduct and linked policies Suppliers >> Procurement policies >> Ethical and responsible business conduct >> Operating and Partners >> Annual Temenos Community Forum >> Long term partnership Responsibly: >> Annual Temenos Global Sales Meeting Responsible Frequency: Daily >> Annual Partners’ Meeting Procurement >> Temenos Innovation Jams >> Trainings and seminars >> Audits and risk assessments Communities >> Cooperation with NGOs >> Access to education and jobs >> Investing in Our >> Community service >> Improve local living conditions Communities Frequency: Monthly >> Employee fundraising >> Support in emergency situations >> Community investment projects >> Social media Academic >> Temenos Sales Academy >> Collaboration and job opportunities >> Investing in Communities >> Services Incubation Center >> Joint R&D projects Our People and Potential >> Temenos Masterclass Employees >> Internships >> Collaboration in research programs Frequency: Daily >> Lectures, presentations, company visits >> Career days >> Social media Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 55 Operating responsibly Our CSR approach continued MATERIALITY ANALYSIS The following main material issues for Temenos and our >> Operating Responsibly Based on various internal compliance, business key stakeholders have been identified: >> Corporate Governance continuity and risk assessments covering different >> Ethical Business Conduct and Governance areas related to the impact of our operations as well >> Business Performance >> Information Security and Data Privacy as on the on-going engagement process with our >> Ethical Business Conduct and Governance >> Responsible Procurement stakeholders, we have conducted a materiality analysis >> Diversity and Inclusion >> Environmental Responsibility and assessment and identified the following material >> Talent and Development >> Investing in Our People CSR issues for Temenos and for our key stakeholders. >> Human Rights >> Human Rights The materiality analysis was conducted in line with the >> Client Focus >> Diversity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunity GRI Standards’ requirements and included the views of >> Information Security and Data Privacy >> Employee Relations our employees, clients, prospects, investors, suppliers, >> Responsible Procurement >> Global Mobility, Health and Welfare Partners, non-governmental organizations and media. >> Social Responsibility and Community Investment >> Employee Communication and Engagement >> Environmental Responsibility >> Talent and Development Understanding and prioritizing the issues that matter >> Technology and Innovation >> Employee Recognition to Temenos and our stakeholders enables us to focus >> Financial Inclusion. >> Enabling Access to Financial Services on the respective areas, address the right issues and >> Financial Inclusion Strategies report on them effectively, aligned with the interests In the following materiality analysis graph, the vertical >> Digital Transformation of Rural Finance and changing needs of our stakeholders and those of axis represents the impact of the above material issues >> Lowering Costs – Access to Quality the Company. Based on the materiality analysis and on Temenos and the horizontal axis represents the Financial Services assessment, we have developed our CSR strategy and stakeholders’ interest per material issue. >> Strengthening Local Financial Intermediation set our commitments. >> Investing in Our Communities For all of the issues discussed in this CSR Report, the >> Community Investment We define issues to be material to our business in data cover all Temenos operations globally except >> Employee Volunteering and terms of: where otherwise noted. Our CSR strategy focuses on Community Service five priority areas, each with several topics of interest >> Supporting local suppliers. >> The importance of the issue to our key stakeholders addressing the material issues: >> The potential economic, environmental and social impacts >> Achieving Business Excellence >> The degree to which this issue is aligned with our >> Business Performance and Economic Impact mission, vision and geographic presence >> Innovation and Technology >> The extent of the Company’s influence on the issue. >> Client Focus. Achieving Business Excellence Operating Responsibly Investing in Our People Enabling access to Financial Services Investing in Our Communities Boundaries: Very high Within Temenos Within and outside Client Focus Business Performance Temenos Talent and Ethical Business Conduct Diversity and Development and Governance Inclusion Information Security Responsible Procurement Human Rights and Data Privacy Social Responsibility and Technology and Impact on Temenos Business Financial Inclusion Community Engagement Innovation Very high Environmental Responsibility High Moderate Moderate Moderate Very high Stakeholders’ Interest 56 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Achieving business excellence BUSINESS PERFORMANCE: Our medium term growth targets are: FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL METRIC MEDIUM TERM TARGETS ACHIEVED IN LAST HIGHLIGHTS 2018 Non-IFRS financial highlights (NON-IFRS) 3 YEARS >> Total software licensing revenue growth of 21% Total software licensing At least 15% CAGR 21% CAGR >> Maintenance growth of 12% >> Total revenue growth of 15% Total Revenue 10-15% CAGR 15% CAGR >> Services margin of 11.5%, improvement EBIT 100-150 bps p.a. 114bps average of 1.9 percentage points >> EBIT margin of 31.5%, up 111 bps EPS At least 15% CAGR 20% CAGR >> Operating cash flows of USD 365 million, up 22% DSO reduction 5-10 days reduction p.a. 13 days average >> Operating cash conversion of 117% with DSOs down five days in the year Cash conversion 100% + of EBITDA 115% average >> Strength of cash flows and growth in profit support Tax rate 17-18% 13% average 2018 dividend of CHF 0.75 per share, an increase of 15% (2017: CHF 0.65 per share). 2018 Operational highlights ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION TO FY 2018 FY 2017 >> Outstanding performance in 2018 with broad VARIOUS STAKEHOLDERS USD 000 USD 000 based demand across geographies and tiers >> Digital and regulatory pressures and move to Open Revenue 840,861 735,363 Banking are driving market growth >> Strong incremental growth in demand for SaaS and Employee wages and benefits 386,215 350,253 cloud adoption, exceeding our expectations Payment to provider of funds 67,842 22,526 >> Temenos sees growing appetite for large institutions Payment to government 38,839 11,930 to optimize delivery through cloud >> Strong momentum in the US market with two Community Investment 175 117 strategically important deals signed with a top tier US bank for visionary front office replacement and PayPal, Inc. for loan management in the cloud The total monetary value of financial assistance INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY >> Temenos won a total of 76 new clients in 2018 with received by Temenos from governments during In order to keep pace with the rapid rate of change competitive deals contributing 40% of total software 2018 is as follows: in information technology, Temenos has always licensing in the year invested extensively to ensure that its software takes >> Continued high levels of activity with Tier 1 and Europe: advantage of the latest innovations. The updated 2 banks which contributed 53% of total software >> UK: Temenos UK receives research and software on the latest technology is offered to clients licensing in 2018 development tax credits for certain related activities. seamlessly through simple, regular upgrades. For more >> Temenos is the market leader, raising barriers to In 2018 the total tax credit received was USD information please refer to Research and Development entry and pulling ahead of the competition 434,240 (2017: USD 300,000).Temenos UK on page 22. >> We started 2019 with very high levels of revenue is also entitled to an annual apprenticeship levy visibility and a strong pipeline, driven by recurring allowance amounted at USD 19,101. revenue, committed spend and its installed base >> Romania: Temenos Romania benefits from an >> There are now over 5,000 third party Temenos income tax exemption for employees in software consultants, with a critical mass of experts available creation related roles. The amount of the exemption to support clients across implementation, testing for 2018 was USD 399,385 (2017: USD and training. 620,000). In addition, there is a 20% reduction in Romanian corporate income tax of USD 46,589 (2017: USD 48,610). This amount is instead paid ECONOMIC IMPACT directly to a Temenos nominated charity. Economic impact for Temenos means achieving our >> Luxembourg: According to an EU directive, medium term growth targets to generate long term Temenos receives a refund from the state in relation sustainable value for all of our stakeholders in order to to the employee trainings performed in Luxembourg. contribute to the global economy as well as the local The refund received in 2018 amounts to economies where our clients conduct our business. USD 263,162. Our medium term growth targets are shown to the right. Asia In 2018, we grew non-IFRS total software licensing >> China: Under government policy for individual by 21% and non-IFRS total revenues by 15%. We income taxes, a 2% individual income tax refund is achieved full year EBIT of USD 266.3 million and given to the Company, which can be used for staff expanded our non-IFRS EBIT margin by 111bps recreational activities or staff award. The refund for to reach 31.5%. Our proposed 2018 dividend 2018 was USD 5,105 (2017: USD 2,090). is CHF0.75, an increase of 15% over last year’s >> Singapore: Under Singapore’s Productivity and dividend. We have a strong capital structure, with low Innovation credit (PIC) and Wage credit Schemes leverage of 1.6x net debt / EBITDA as of 31.12.18 Temenos has claimed USD 34,666 in 2018 and having generated USD 365 million of operating (2017: USD 51,095). cash flow in 2018. Temenos’ economic contribution >> Australia: Temenos Australia is entitled to an R&D to its various stakeholders is summarized in the table Tax Incentive (Tax Credits) from the Australian to the right. government. In 2018, the total tax credit claimed was USD 165,554. Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 57 Operating responsibly Achieving business excellence continued FOCUS ON CLIENT ENGAGEMENT Client Satisfaction Since the metric was launched, our NPS has improved Client Voice In order to drive our focus on client experience further, by 45 percentage points with the largest improvement Client-centricity and client success have been at the a complementary initiative to the Temenos Client Voice following the launch of the Improve Client Satisfaction heart of our corporate values since the Company was program, the Improve Client Satisfaction Project, was Project. Our satisfaction scores across the board have founded. In order to have a consistent view of each launched in March 2014. The aim of the Improve also followed this trend. To date we have completed step of our clients’ journey, we launched the Temenos Client Satisfaction Project is to cement the Company’s nine survey waves, collecting over 6,000 responses Client Voice in 2012 and have been repeating it focus on client satisfaction and make Temenos an even across all our accounts. Since 2015, we have been on an annual basis since then. The program, owned more client-centric company. The project is sponsored incentivizing our clients to participate in the survey. by our Chief Executive Officer, covers all products by our Chief Client Officer. Within the project, each The Company matched every survey submission with and regions. The program is critical to Temenos as it department is represented by a carefully selected a donation to Hand in Hand International. In 2018 enables us to track and analyze the clients’ perception individual/group of individuals. we set ourselves several goals including maintaining a of their experience of working with Temenos. It is strong response rate and improving in all satisfaction supported both at a senior management and regional They are tasked with setting KPIs and actions to areas. We are pleased to have achieved our 2018 level, with the client satisfaction process itself being enhance satisfaction in their areas according to the goals, we will continue to strive for improvement and led by a cross departmental team with members from feedback collected through the Temenos Client Voice have set further goals for 2019. Sales, Marketing, Support and Services teams. program. The representatives are also responsible for making sure that the actions are completed and 2019 Goals The Temenos Client Voice program was first launched that the target improvements within their areas are >> To continue to focus efforts on improving satisfaction with an initial survey in February 2012. It is based achieved. The KPIs and actions are tracked and in those areas which have the largest impact on on the ‘Net Promoter’ methodology, which classifies reported on a monthly basis at the executive level. client engagement, including product, support and participants from those least likely to recommend a firm They are also reviewed regularly based on incoming services. to those most likely to advocate for a firm, detractors, feedback in order to ensure that they remain relevant >> To strive for higher participation in the Client Voice passives and promoters. The percentage of detractors and continue addressing the correct areas. program to obtain more and more representative is then subtracted from the percentage of promoters feedback, bringing the annual number of to arrive at the Net Promotor Score. In doing so, it Clients receive updates on Temenos initiatives and participants to over 1,200 individuals from our client serves to effectively concentrate the organization on activities through various media, from specific updates organizations. always giving outstanding service and moving client and newsletters to presentations at our annual >> To raise our Net Promoter Score by a further 5 opinion from negative or neutral to highly positive (a Temenos Community Forum. Since the program was percentage points. promoter has a satisfaction score of nine or ten out of launched, we have seen a significant improvement in >> To improve our overall satisfaction score (an ten). However, the discipline of Net Promoter, which our Net Promoter Score and our clients have shown average of all participants’ scores, as opposed to is used widely by B2B companies, goes deeper than their support and approval of the program. promoters less detractors) by at least 1 percentage just tracking a metric, it is a whole system designed to point across every aspect of the business. operationalize client data throughout the organization in order to drive change, systemize learnings and International Standards and Certifications improve client experiences. In order to deliver our services to all clients across in a consistent and standardized way, Temenos On an annual basis Temenos invites its entire client uses processes and methodologies that are certified base, across its full range of products and platforms, by accredited bodies and adhere to international to participate in a detailed relationship survey. standard certifications. In that way, we ensure a more systematic and effective approach to our issues. CERTIFICATION/ 2018 2019-20 GOALS STANDARD ISO/IEC 27001:2013 Information Temenos India offices and Temenos Australia are ISO 27001 To extend this certification for ISO 27017 and 27018 Security Management System with certified against the standard. Temenos UK and Romania in 2019. extensions: offices await certifications. ISO 27017 ISO 27018 ISO 27032 ISO 22301:2012 Assessment and gap analysis. To aim for certification in 2019 for cloud: Temenos Australia, Business Continuity Temenos India Chennai offices, Temenos Romania, Temenos UK Fenchurch office and newly acquired Avoka for Sydney and Denver offices. ISO 9001:2015 Temenos India offices and UK offices –Product Core CMB, To extend the certification to US Model Bank. Quality Management CSD, PACS, Model Bank, Technology. Temenos Australia. ISO 14001:2015 Three Temenos India offices are ISO 14001:2015 certified. To extend the certification to other Temenos offices in Europe. Environmental Management AICPA SOC Temenos India offices, Temenos Romania and Temenos UK To extend SOC 2 certifications to include: Temenos Australia System and Organization Controls are certified for SOC 2 Type 2. SOC2 type 2 in November 2019, LATAM locations for SOC 1 Type 2 Akcelerant Lifecycle business and Wealth Management are SOC 2 Type 2, US core banking for SOC 2 Type 1&2, SOC 2 Type 2 also SOC 2 type 2 certified. Other processes such as product development and Australia certified SOC 2 type 1. Newly acquired Avoka is implementation. SOC1 Type 2 and SOC2 Type 2 certified. CSA STAR Certificate/Cloud Security Assessment of compliance with the CSA CCM completed. To publish a standard response to the CSA CCM for use by Alliance – Cloud Controls Matrix clients in assessing the security of our services. (CCCM) To prepare for STAR certification. PCI DSS level 1 Temenos Australia gap analysis concluded. To implement controls and obtain the certification in 2019 for Payment Card Industry – Data Temenos Australia. Security Standard 58 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Operating responsibly DOING BUSINESS THE RIGHT WAY For 25 years we have been proud of our reputation for ETHICAL BUSINESS CONDUCT Business Code of Conduct professionalism and the strong relationships we have The Code is the foundation of our commitment to AND GOVERNANCE built up with our clients. We believe that sound and ethical business practices and legal compliance. Our commitment to assess and manage the impact ethical business conduct and governance is critical The Code defines the standards for business conduct of our operations and promote the long term interests to earning and maintaining the trust of our clients, everywhere we operate and provides guidance of our shareholders is demonstrated in the Temenos investors, Partners and suppliers. Integrity, honesty and in addressing the business, legal and ethical issues Business Code of Conduct (the Code) and our transparency are at the heart of what we do. Our encountered while performing daily work or making corporate policies. The members of the Board of commitments to ethical business practices and strong decisions on behalf of Temenos. Directors and the Executive Committee have endorsed corporate governance structures are designed to the Code. Oversight of sustainability issues is part of promote the long term interests of our shareholders, In 2017, we reviewed, updated and aligned our the duties of our senior management through the CSR maintain internal checks and balances, promote Code and policies with the ten principles of the and Ethics Committee. accountability at all levels of our organization and United Nations Global Compact on the four issue foster responsible decision-making. areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and AntiCSR and Ethics Governance Corruption and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational To ensure the effective implementation of our CSR As a global corporation, we have been operating at Enterprises, in order to better serve the interests of strategy, Temenos has a Global Corporate Social an exceptionally high standard of integrity in complying a broader set of stakeholders and raise awareness Responsibility Department, responsible for managing with the laws and regulations of the countries in about our responsible and sustainable operation. the Group CSR strategy, interacting with stakeholders which we operate – in some cases higher standards and driving the CSR initiatives. than required by national laws or regulations. We The Code is available in English and French and can understand the responsibility that comes with that role be found on our intranet and our corporate website. Temenos CSR strategy is designed and led by the and are committed to working with all our stakeholders It applies equally to full-time, part-time, temporary CSR and Ethics Committee (the Committee) at the to build long term business relationships and create employees and contractors globally. The Code is a senior management level, which reports to the Board sustainable value for them. key part of the employment contract and contractor of Directors through the Audit Committee. The purpose agreement. All employees are required to read and of the Committee is to foster a culture of sustainability, CORPORATE GOVERNANCE acknowledge the Code and linked policies within the responsibility and ethics within the Company, Corporate Governance at Temenos is set up so first three months of their employment. In 2018, we recognizing that senior management is responsible for as to promote the long term interests of all of our achieved an acknowledgment rate of 99.6% for instilling Temenos’ values throughout the Company. stakeholders and foster a culture of transparency, the Code. The Committee represents different Temenos functions business integrity, responsible decision-making and and departments, ensuring all the voices of internal accountability, maintain internal checks and controls Employees are also required to complete the and external stakeholders are taken into account. and help build public trust in the Company, by mandatory trainings upon joining and as of 2019 The Committee’s membership in 2018 was as follows: balancing the interests of all its stakeholders. all employees will be required to repeat every 12 months. The objective of the Code is to ensure that >> Chief Financial Officer / Chief Operating Officer Highlights of Temenos Corporate Governance all stakeholders are aware of the behaviors that are (Chairman of the Committee) >> Board of Directors with Non-Executive and expected from them. The CSR and Ethics Committee is >> General Counsel (Deputy Chairperson of the Independent Directors charged with monitoring the compliance with the Code. Committee) >> Separate Chairman and Chief Executive Officer >> Group CSR Manager (Secretary) >> Executive Chairman Temenos requires Partners to comply with the Temenos >> Chief Human Resources Officer >> Independent Audit, Nomination and Compensation Business Code of Conduct as respective compliance >> Finance Director – Strategic Projects and Committees requirements are included in the Services Partner Compliance >> Charters for Board Committees agreement. Temenos requires all new suppliers to >> Internal Audit and Risk Director. >> Chief Executive Officer and Executive Committee comply with the Temenos Business Code of Conduct >> Annual Board and Committee Evaluations and the Temenos Supplier Code of Conduct. For the The Committee meets quarterly, while quorum is >> Stock Ownership and Holding Requirements existing suppliers Temenos will require to gradually required for actions to be taken. Written minutes are >> Corporate Governance Guidelines approved comply with the Code and related policies and to kept and maintained by the Committee Secretary by the Board verify compliance by providing respective information for all formal meetings of the Committee and are >> Internal Controls and Risk Oversight by Committees when requested. communicated to the external statutory auditor. and Board. In 2018, the Committee held five meetings. More information on Corporate Governance is on page 88 and on the corporate website www.temenos.com. Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 59 Operating responsibly Operating responsibly continued Corporate Policies Anti-Corruption and Bribery screening and conducting due-diligence assessments The backbone of our Code are the corporate policies For Temenos, anti-corruption is not only a legal of our business Partners and suppliers, while linked to it that provide detailed guidance on how to obligation but also a matter of ethical business introducing a risk assessment tool for our suppliers to exercise good judgment when working and making standards. The Company takes a zero-tolerance identify the level of risk associated with bribery and decisions for Temenos. Temenos is a global company approach to bribery and corruption and is committed corruption, ensuring that we can only engage with and our business is subject to the laws of many different to acting professionally, fairly and with integrity in all those that are legitimate businesses with a reputation countries. In order to conduct our business on a daily its business dealings and relationships – wherever for integrity. basis, we interact with a variety of stakeholders. it operates – and to implementing and enforcing We are committed to interacting with all of these effective systems to counter bribery. Temenos upholds The updated Code addresses our policies with regards stakeholders in a respectful, ethical manner and in all laws relevant to countering bribery and corruption in to charitable donations and the giving and receiving compliance with all the local and international laws of all the jurisdictions in which it operates, including but by of gifts and corporate hospitality. To ensure charitable the countries we operate in. The policies are reviewed no means limited to the US Foreign Corrupt Practices contributions, donations and sponsorships and prizes annually and reflect our continued commitment to Act and the Bribery Act (UK) 2010. Temenos’ zero made on behalf of Temenos are not used to circumvent ethical business practices and legal compliance. tolerance on corruption and ethical standards are set anti-bribery policies and can be documented, we set out in our Code and our Anti-Bribery and Corruption up an internal global system designed to centralize In addition to acknowledging the Code when joining (ABC) policy which apply to all Temenos employees the declaration and/or approval process for gifts, the Company, Temenos employees are expected to and group entities. entertainment and contributions to better shield the complete training on the Code as well as on three Company from practices that could be perceived other areas, such as Anti-corruption and Bribery, The Temenos Anti-Corruption and Bribery policy as unethical and contrary to our Anti-Corruption Data Privacy and Security Awareness. The increased states that Temenos shall actively attempt to ensure and Bribery practices. All charitable contributions, focus and communication of the Code and related that corruption does not occur in Temenos’ business donations and sponsorships require the prior review policies by our senior management and HR in 2018 activities through an adequate and risk-based Antiand written approval of the CSR and Ethics Committee. had a positive impact on our Ethical Business Conduct Corruption Program. Anti-Corruption and Bribery compliance. training is part of the annual Business Conduct training We continue to operate on the updated antithat all employees have to take when joining Temenos corruption framework and guidelines when engaging GLOBAL TEMENOS TRAINING and to repeat regularly during their employment with third-party representatives that introduce Temenos COMPLETION PERCENTAGE* with Temenos. By 31 December 2018, 99.3% of to new markets and projects, both in terms of the employees (including Executive Chairman, Executive Introducer scoring mechanism as well as the level Business Code of Conduct Committee and Leadership team members) have of documentation required to be submitted in support Acknowledgment99.6% completed the training (0.7% is accounted for of Introducer related activities, including an obligation Business Code of new joiners with a three-month grace period from to document the activities and communications their hire date). undertaken when working with Introducers. The new Conduct Training 99.0% Introducer scoring mechanism is based on three Anti-Corruption and The Anti-Corruption and Bribery policy and the Antiassessment criteria. More specifically: Bribery Training 99.3% Corruption Program include several elements such as Data Protection Training 98.9% proportionate procedures, top-level commitment, risk 1. Quantitative Criteria Security Awareness Training 98.6% assessment, integrity due diligence, communication, The risk assessment is based on: * Excluding Avoka employees. training, monitoring, review, enforcement and sanctions, with the aim of continuous improvement and >> Location Risk: The perceived corruption level set alignment with prevailing international standards. As up by Transparency International is taken into part of our on-going commitment to anti-corruption, we consideration, both for the Introducer and the have expanded our commitments in this area beyond prospect client Temenos, to include our suppliers, Partners and other >> Payment Risk: Both the proportionality of Introducer third parties that have a direct contractual relationship payment as % of deal value, as well as the payment with Temenos. Integrity is a vital part of our business. to the Introducer as an absolute amount is taken into We also have Anti-Corruption and Bribery provisions consideration in our Partner and contractor agreements as well as in >> Transaction Risk: The location (country) of the our procurement process with suppliers. Since 2016, bank account in which the Introducer will receive we have implemented mandatory requirements for payment is scored against the location (country) of the Introducer. ANTI-BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION STATUS BY FUNCTION % BY FUNCTION General General Administration 551 Administration 98.9% Research and Research and Development 2,478 Development 99.4% Sales and Sales and Marketing 581 Marketing 99.1% Services 1,329 Services 99.5% BY REGION % BY REGION APA 390 APA 99.5% EUR 1,301 EUR 99.0% IND 2,509 IND 99.4% LATAM 163 LATAM 100.0% MAF 166 MAF 98.8% NAM 410 NAM 99.8% 60 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Specific weighting is assigned to the following (based interest. Also, transactions executed by related parties Preventing retaliation is critical for Temenos. The on the risk appetite set at management level): (legal entities and natural persons) must be reported if Company has an open-door policy and strictly such transactions are carried out under the significant prohibits retaliation against those who raise a >> Location Risk-Perceived corruption at location influence of a Temenos senior manager. Ensuring that compliance concern in good faith. Retaliation for of prospect client the integrity of the Company’s decision-making is not raising questions or issues is prohibited, even if >> Location Risk-Perceived corruption at location compromised by employees’ private interests, Temenos an investigation does not ultimately validate the of Introducer has in place business-specific policies and procedures concerns raised. Temenos is committed to handling >> Payment Risk that address the identification and management of all inquiries discreetly and preserving the anonymity >> Transaction risk (Location of Payment-Perceived actual, potential or perceived conflicts of interest that and confidentiality of anyone requesting guidance or corruption). may arise in the course of business as well as the reporting a possible violation to the extent possible and reporting of any related party transactions. within the limits allowed by the laws. 2. Qualitative criteria >> Relationship of the Introducer with Conflict of interest has been an important part of the In addition, an appeal process to the CSR and Ethics government/governmental authorities Code since its launch. In 2017, a separate policy was Committee was introduced, whose decision is final and >> Adequacy of information provided. created which was directly linked to the Code. The binding. Failure to act in compliance with the Code policy describes in detail the voluntary and mandatory can result in appropriate disciplinary actions. All filed 3. Sanction checking disclosure mechanism for all Temenos employees, cases have been successfully resolved. Both the Introducer and the prospect client are crossmembers of the senior management and the Board checked against sanctions lists provided by Dow Jones. of Directors as well as the appeal process to the CSR Risk Management and Internal Controls and Ethics Committee which is charged with monitoring Temenos’ policy is to have adequate controls Temenos monitors compliance with the policy the compliance with the Code and its linked policies. in all areas of its operation to ensure compliance regularly through routine and ad hoc checks and with applicable laws, regulations, policies and client audits across the organization. The Anti-Corruption We have an internal online global system designed agreements, preparation of reliable financial and and Bribery policy and the effectiveness of the to centralize the declaration of Conflict of Interest and management reports, safeguarding of Company Anti-Corruption Program are assessed and revised Related Party Transactions as well as the approvals assets (both physical and intangible) and efficient on a regular basis. In 2017, we engaged a of Outside Directorships Requests made by Temenos and effective use of resources. Internal audits are third party external audit company to benchmark employees or members of the Board of Directors conducted by the Internal Audit function according our Anti-Corruption and Bribery compliance serving as a Director or an officer for an outside to a risk-based plan. organization, including an examination on the design, organization which might also result in a conflict implementation, processes and internal controls in that of interest. It is management’s responsibility to design, implement respect. This benchmark was part of our commitment and operate effective risk management practices and to ensure that our Anti-Corruption and Bribery Ethical Business Conduct Monitoring and Reporting controls. This is achieved through regular assessment of compliance program is continuously improving, in Our responsibility is to train our employees on ethical risks, carrying out control activities such as segregation line with best practices and our continually evolving business conduct, provide them with communication of duties, supervision, staff training, communication business. channels, build controls to prevent and detect unethical and monitoring. It is the role of Internal Audit among and non-compliant conduct and perform regular others, to evaluate effectiveness of risk management In 2018, no case of corruption was drawn internal audits; when we identify or learn of concerns and internal controls, assess compliance with policies to the Board’s attention through the anonymous or improper conduct, to investigate them fully and take and procedures and provide assurance to senior reporting mechanism. appropriate action to remediate. management and Board of Directors. Export Controls and Sanctions Temenos offers employees, Partners and suppliers All Temenos employees, contractors, Partners Temenos complies with all applicable export control ways to report compliance concerns. If instances of and suppliers are required to fully cooperate with laws and sanctions worldwide when conducting possible non-compliance with the Code are detected, Internal Audit if and when requested and to provide business around the world. All Temenos employees, an internal grievance mechanism is in place to record access to all records, property and personnel as contractors, distributors and Partners are expected verbally, in print or electronically, any related concerns stated in the Internal Audit Charter approved by and required to comply with the Export Controls and through: the Audit Committee. Sanctions policy, which is also part of the Code. Failure to observe sanctions and export controls may >> The Line Manager cause operational delays, expose the Company >> Group Human Resources Department to regulatory investigations, severely damage our >> Group Legal Department reputation, and create substantial legal exposure for >> Group Internal Audit. Temenos companies including criminal and civil fines, and for individuals, fines and imprisonment. There is an anonymous reporting mechanism in place through: anonymousreporting@temenos.com. In 2018, Temenos’ Sanctions Compliance Program, conducted internally by implementing Temenos’ own compliance solution “FCM” in a corporate environment, was further enhanced. Due to enhancement, we now have the capability to analyze within 24 hours all business opportunities at an early stage of development for sanctions risks and continue to analyze them through their evolution as a business No. of grievances in opportunity and thereafter as a client. On a daily Employee concerns 2018 basis, updated sanctions lists provided by Dow Jones are uploaded to the FCM Solution, and all business opportunities and clients are now checked daily. Workplace discrimination concerns (perceived-feeling of discrimination) 2 Other workplace concerns (failure to comply with legal obligations, such as breach Conflict of Interest and Related Party Transactions employment law or human rights obligations) 0 Conflicts of interest in both the public and private sectors have become a major matter of public concern Fraud, theft, bribery or other ethical misconduct 0 worldwide. As a global market leading software Health and Safety or perceived damage to the environment 3 provider, Temenos might be faced with actual, Violation of the Temenos Business Code of Conduct  3 potential or perceived conflicts of interest. Temenos is sensitive to the ways in which an employee’s private Actual, potential or perceived conflict of interest 0 financial affairs could create potential conflicts of Total8 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 61 Operating responsibly Operating responsibly continued INFORMATION SECURITY >> We have incorporated Information Security and Data >> Temenos developed robust security incident Privacy requirements into our Global Procurement management procedures, in order to minimize AND DATA PRIVACY Policy and procedure that includes two main the impact of any incident for its clients and their Security and data privacy continue to be a focus initiatives for suppliers: sourcing process for supplier end users. for corporations, regulators, industry organizations qualification and an annual supplier performance and >> Temenos completed a number of significant security and advocacy groups across the globe. Regulatory risk assessment, covering areas such as business and infrastructure upgrades that enhance our perimeter requirements, stakeholder pressures and reputational ethical conduct, environment, human rights, impact on security and user access control. impacts, due to high profile data security breaches society, client privacy and information security apart >> The Security and Privacy Governance Group has in recent years, have thrown into the spotlight the from the financial and legal compliance requirements. been strengthened by creating the position, and importance of having robust safeguards in place >> Temenos fully deployed its GDPR compliance plan, appointing the Director of Privacy and Security, as for personal, corporate as well as client data. built around the following five fundamental questions: an ultimate goal to spearhead Temenos’ privacy >> WHAT data are we processing? compliance programs and all aspects of privacy As a market leading software provider for financial >> WHY do we process the data? security across the Temenos Group. As part of his institutions globally, Temenos recognizes that information >> WHERE do we process data? remit, the Director chairs the Privacy and Security security and data privacy is a material issue for our >> WHO do we share the data with or has access to Committee. He is responsible for reporting on privacy stakeholders, as it is a fundamental aspect of our the data, and for what purpose(s)? and security related initiatives to the Audit Committee. product offering and business operation. To that end >> HOW do we protect the data? The Director, together with the Committee, ensures as part of our continuous improvement program for that Temenos has effective and established policies, Information Security and Privacy, in early 2019 a Chief Temenos GDPR compliance framework incorporates guidelines and standards that comply with the laws, Security Officer reporting to the CEO, was introduced, four principles: Assess, Protect, Sustain and Respond. rules and regulations of the countries in which the responsible for the wider Temenos Security agenda, Based on the above, all processes involving processing Company operates and with international standards. including cloud and IT security, privacy, compliance and of personal data have been mapped and assessed for business continuity. relevant risks. Furthermore, all data subjects can exercise The Committee’s purpose is to oversee our senior their rights, as depicted by the GDPR. management’s efforts to implement global information Privacy security and privacy compliance programs within the Key highlights for 2018 include: >> We developed a three year Privacy Strategy and Temenos group. The Committee’s role is to recognize assess the Privacy Maturity of all involved Temenos that developing a culture of security and awareness of >> Aligning our product offering with the Customer Data functions, by analyzing: privacy and personal data among all employees is the Protection Module. The Temenos Customer Data >> Privacy Strategy responsibility of all involved within the organization. The Protection module provides clients the tools and >> Governance responsibilities of the Security and Privacy Committee functionality to assist their compliance to the General >> Policy include overseeing global security and data protection Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), and therefore >> Risk efforts with the objective of ensuring that Temenos has more control, of personal data and processing >> Compliance established written policies, guidelines and standards throughout the systems. Applying our functional and >> Records of Processing in compliance with the laws, rules and regulations of technical understanding of the rules of data protection >> Privacy Notice and Cookies the countries in which we operate and in accordance and our experience of working within the financial >> Data Collection and Subjects’ Rights with internationally recognized standards. In addition, its sector, we assist clients to analyze business models >> Privacy by Design role is to assess all security incidents, including incidents to help them understand the practical and financial >> Sharing Transfer Disclosure that may result in the breach of personal data, contain implications of the new Regulation and develop >> Suppliers’ Relationships them and take immediate action in order to rectify strategies for dealing with such implications within >> Monitoring Enforcement the situation. Its membership in 2018 consisted of, in their usage of Temenos products. It is the responsibility >> Incident Management majority, senior management executives, including the of the client itself to ensure internal policies and >> Privacy Awareness and Behavior Privacy and Security Director, Head of IT, Head of procedures are in place across all systems to ensure >> The leading Privacy Management Software Product Security, IT Security and Compliance Manager, privacy compliance. “OneTrust” has been acquired and Privacy General Counsel, Chief Human Resources Officer, Data >> To comply with GDPR, data security and other related Compliance is monitored through its suite of modules Protection Compliance Lead, Head of Internal Audit and local laws, we implemented a global information (Readiness Assessment, Assessment Automation, Data Risk. The Committee held nine meetings during 2018, security and data privacy program accompanied Mapping, Cookie Consent, Data Subject Requests, ensuring the involvement and engagement of Temenos by supporting policies and procedures designed to Cookie Consent and risk Register). Senior Management. safeguard the confidentiality, integrity and availability of data and IT services. We continuously monitor Security Temenos Information Security team works alongside our internal processes, run key compliance projects Key Highlights for 2018 include: the Temenos Security and Privacy Committee and and conduct training to our people. Our goal is to the Product Security team in order to develop and raise awareness about integrating security into their >> As part of the Temenos Information Security oversee the implementation of information security day-to-day activities and adapting their behaviors program, the Temenos office sites in India performing controls to ensure data confidentiality, integrity and accordingly to today’s increasingly complex Requirement analysis, Design, Development, Testing, availability. In parallel, the Committee has developed information technology landscape. Implementation, Supply and Maintenance of our the Temenos Security Incident Management Procedure, >> We embedded Security and Data Privacy awareness products along with Client support, Product related which describes the framework for early detection throughout the organization. In developing the consultancy and management. Shared Service and responding to security incidents. Depending on Temenos Data Protection and Privacy Policy, Center and related support processes as well as the nature of the incident, this procedure outlines the Temenos promotes a culture of security and Rubik are certified as ISO 27001 compliant. In steps to be taken when security incidents are identified awareness relating to personal information, which is addition, Temenos maintains SSAE18 attestations or reported and establishes the organizational supported by additional procedures designed for our for controls related to clients’ data. This covers requirements, including roles and responsibilities employees, contractors, Partners, suppliers and clients. Temenos India offices, Temenos Romania, Temenos for incident processing and protection. An incident Temenos Data Protection and Privacy Policy UK, Temenos Australia and newly acquired Avoka. is initially classified as of low, medium or high severity, applies to all of Temenos worldwide. As part In addition, as part of our longstanding commitment which dictates the course of action to be taken, within of the e-training modules that all employees and to ensuring the privacy and security of the data we a 24-hour window. All incidents are being archived contractors have to take when joining Temenos handle, Temenos also conducts annual audits, which and are followed by post incident reports, in order and to repeat during their employment with outline and document the adequate internal controls to ensure that all necessary measures have been put Temenos – including data protection training for information security and data privacy. These audits into effect. modules aligned with the GDPR-, in 2018, we are carried out for our data centers and infrastructure achieved a completion rate for the trainings of services as well. The results of these audits are 2019 Goals 99%. We also require Partners – included in communicated to senior management as well as the >> To continue to improve our Information Security the Services Partner agreement – to provide Board of Directors through the Audit Committee. and Data Privacy program. Security Awareness and Data Privacy trainings to >> To achieve industry certifications, e.g. ISO 27001. all employees, working on Temenos projects. 62 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements RESPONSIBLE PROCUREMENT In 2018, we also developed a procurement category The reported data below contains all purchases done At Temenos, we constantly support responsible management framework with defined category plans by the Temenos local entity from local suppliers, i.e. procurement by building strong and long-lasting in order to understand our spend categories better and suppliers that are registered in the same country as the partnerships with our suppliers, while gaining their help us perform our sourcing in ways that go beyond Temenos entity that pays them. understanding and support for our policies and our one-time events. As a first step in our procurement responsible way of sourcing. We build and maintain category management framework, we set up an relationships with both small local suppliers as well electronic Procurement Database containing supplier Supplier as large international suppliers who adhere to our relevant documentation and contracts. Code of Conduct business principles, while encouraging our suppliers to develop their own responsible practices. Temenos has a Supplier Code of Conduct which is Temenos Suppliers are expected to adhere to the highest standards of ethical behavior and regulatory compliance We have aligned our Business Code of Conduct with the United Nations Global Compact and its 10 principles regarding Human Rights, Labour Rights, Environment and Anti-corruption and comply with the Temenos Business Code of Conduct and linked to our company’s Business Code of Conduct. the Temenos Supplier Code of Conduct. In addition, they are expected to comply with all applicable laws and regulations and to ensure that all goods and services provided by them are and expect all our Suppliers to adhere to these principles. In this way, we have developed a General Questionnaire covering areas like Business and Ethical Conduct, Environment, Human Rights, Impact on Society, Customer Privacy & Information high-quality and conform to all applicable legal standards. The Supplier Code of Conduct lists the requirements Security. Our Suppliers are expected to provide the information As a global software company, our business focuses At Temenos, we have incorporated Corporate Social Responsibility considerations into our procurement practices, requested in the General Questionnaire during the qualification process and/or when requested as part of our supplier relationship management activities. for our Suppliers on how to adhere to our business as responsible procurement practices are now part of the on providing software solutions and services by Temenos Responsibility Management System. We constantly While we recognize that our Suppliers may establish improve our responsible procurement by obtaining the standards on an individual basis, we prefer to do business understanding and support of Suppliers for the policies with Suppliers who adhere to our business principles outlined principles, while encouraging them to develop their and building strong partnerships with them. We have also in the TemenosBusiness Code of Conduct and we encourage relying on the sourcing of finished products, services introduced effective audit mechanisms for identified cases of Suppliers to develop their own responsible practices. high-risk suppliers, as well as grievance mechanisms for both employees and suppliers on procurement issues. and consultants for the delivery of our projects. Our own responsible practices. On the Temenos website More specifically, our Supplier qualification process and Supplier performance reviews include a risk assessment as part of a centralised governance model for Supplier our Suppliers can find all necessary resources to relationship management. supply chain includes a supplier base of around 3,000 suppliers globally and is tiered based on the nature do business with Temenos (i.e. Purchase terms and of the supply and criticality for Temenos business. conditions, Supplier code of Conduct, invoicing The estimated monetary value of payments made to guidelines, grievance mechanism). suppliers in 2018 was around USD 195 million. Temenos suppliers are also encouraged to The suppliers that are critical for our business are communicate any concerns they might have related Supplier to a possible breach of the Temenos Business Code Guidelines defined as follows: of Conduct through the Anonymous Reporting The Supplier Code of Conduct contains requirements for In performing its obligations under a Temenos Purchase mechanism. Employees work only with company Suppliers providing goods or services to Temenos, in addition Order, our Suppliers shall permit the Temenos authorized >> Supplier that provides goods and/or services which to obligations contained in any applicable agreement between Temenos and the Supplier. representatives at all reasonable times to audit the Supplier’s provision of the Services and /or Goods and adherence to the Temenos Business Code of Conduct and Temenos Policies to are supplied to our clients approved suppliers and Partners, avoid all forms of TEMENOS expects our Suppliers and their employees and subcontractors to comply with all applicable statutory and other regulatory requirements, as well as the Temenos Business Code of Conduct and any Temenos policies provided to them. determine that the provisions of the Purchase Order are being faithfully performed. >> Supplier which has access to and/or processes our one-sided preferential treatment of a supplier and have Our Suppliers have to ensure that their employees and subcontractors are informed about it and comply with Temenos Business Code of Conduct and any Temenos policies provided Our Suppliers are expected to inform Temenos should there be any significant breaches to this Supplier Code of Conduct, allegations of non-compliance or investigation into noncompliance by authorities to anonymousreporting@ Employee or Company data the Anonymous Reporting mechanism to report any to them. Unless otherwise expressly agreed in writing, the purchase of goods and/or services is governed by the Temenos Purchase temenos.com. This email address is accessed only by the Director of Internal Audit and Risk. temenos.com >> Supplier that connects to our Company systems or concerns they might have related to a possible breach Order Terms and Conditions available on the Temenos website requires access to Temenos intellectual property or of the Company-supplier/Partner business relationship. For more information, ©2018 Temenos Headquarters SA all rights reserved. Warning: This document is protected by copyright law and refer to: https://www.temenos.com/en/suppliers/ international treaties. Unauthorised reproduction of this confidential information document, or any portion of it, may result in severe and criminal penalties, and will be prosecuted to the maximum extent possible under law. >> Supplier that provides technical or IT services Spending on Local Suppliers and/or software products which involve intellectual The percentage of the procurement budget used for property licensing. our top significant locations of operation spent on suppliers local to that operation (such as percentage of 2019 Goals In 2018, the procurement lifecycle in Temenos has products and services purchased locally) is as follows: >> To communicate internally our Global Procurement become an end-to-end Source to Pay (S2P) process Team’s role as a trusted advisor in order to enhance that includes the sub-processes of Sourcing, Purchase % purchases from cost-avoidance capabilities and support business and Payment. We have successfully transitioned local suppliers objectives effectively to a centralized procurement model by having a >> To implement our procurement category Top 15 countries 2018 management framework for the targeted spend Global Procurement Team that oversees the sourcing process and drives the purchase activities at Company category in order to meet value objectives including level. The Team has a structured and transparent India 92% cost avoidance and compliance management approach, emphasizing on supply market analysis and United States 93% >> To investigate the market for strategic sourcing negotiations’ expertise. application suites that meet our needs for supply United Kingdom 93% base management In addition, the Team exercises responsible Romania 64% >> To further enhance our Supplier Relationship procurement practices between Temenos and its Australia 86% Management activities by implementing Supplier suppliers by conducting Supplier Performance and Risk Performance and Risk assessments for the targeted Luxembourg 58% category of suppliers. Assessment activities. The Supplier Performance and Risk Assessment activities are part of our centralized Singapore 77% governance model for Supplier Relationship Switzerland 33% Management that allows us to get to know our suppliers and to build strong and trusting partnerships Canada 74% with them. Temenos uses a Supplier Questionnaire that United Arab Emirates 57% covers areas such as business and ethical conduct, China / Hong Kong 94% / 70% environment, human rights, impact on society, client privacy and information security as well as financial Germany 80% and legal compliance requirements. The Supplier Ecuador 54% Questionnaire is also aligned with the 10 principles France 62% of the UN Global Compact and the EU General Data Protection Regulation 2016/679 and is used Greece 53% both during the supplier qualification process and the annual Supplier Performance and Risk Assessment activities. SOURCING PURCHASE PAYMENTS In 2018, we implemented Supplier Performance and Risk Assessment to approximately 200 of our top suppliers and assigned a performance and risk score RAISE PR, ISSUE PO, PAYMENT PROCESS, SUPPLIER QUALIFICATION to 84% of the suppliers, while not proceeding with SUPPLIER PERFORMANCE RECEIPT INVOICE RECEIPT, PROCESSING, contract renewals for 17% of the suppliers. AND RISK ASSESSMENT ACKNOWLEDGMENT PAYMENT RELEASE Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 63 Operating responsibly Operating responsibly continued ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY In addition, as an IT software company we rely on With the continued global spotlight on the critical our people who travel to deliver our services, so issue of climate change, we recognize the importance we have measured our environmental footprint in of understanding and taking action on our material relation to business air travel for all the countries we environmental impacts, risks and opportunities. operate, representing 100% of the total employee While fully complying with all relevant environmental concentration. In 2018, we launched an internal laws and legislation at our office locations globally, employee commute survey to measure and report our we support a precautionary approach to indirect environmental footprint in relation to employee environmental challenges on our own initiative and commute, using their personal means of transportation an environmentally responsible way of conducting to commute daily to our office locations globally. our business operations. No instances of non-compliance with environmental In 2018, we continued our systematic approach laws and regulations occurred in 2018. through our commitment to measure our global environmental footprint, implement mitigation and Carbon Footprint: reduction initiatives and report on our progress. The primary sources of our emissions are onsite electricity generation, purchased electricity, Temenos has 67 offices in 41 countries. All Temenos employee commute and business travel. The total offices are located in large leased office buildings energy consumed during 2018 is 31,066.42 GJ. close to city centers and outside protected lands and The direct energy consumption by primary energy habitats. Some of the large leased office buildings are source is 812.78 GJ. The indirect energy consumption already certified for their environmental performance by primary source is 30,253.65 GJ. Our annual on their own initiative. The Temenos offices are absolute greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) are designed internally in such a way as to fully utilize at 34,654.75 tCO2e. We are establishing reliable natural resources, such as sunlight or make efficient systems to monitor other emission such as NOx, SOx, room of the office space (open space externally and Ozone Depleting Substance (ODS). All GHG used as patios), and to create an excellent working figures in the report are in tons of carbon dioxide environment. We have incorporated environmental equivalents (CO2e). requirements into our corporate facilities management practices and developed a comprehensive facilities management strategy that incorporates both financial EMISSIONS ACTIVITIES SCOPE EMISSION SOURCE and non-financial criteria for new property leases (procedure and standards for selecting a new Onsite Electricity Generation Direct (Scope 1) Diesel-operated generator sets property) and for renewal of existing leases. – Diesel Fuel Purchased Electricity Energy Indirect (Scope 2) For Office use In 2017, we introduced a Global Environment policy, as part of the Temenos Business Code of Conduct. Employee Commute Other Indirect (Scope 3) Employees’ personal vehicles* While our footprint is smaller compared to other Business Travel Other Indirect (Scope 3) Commercial airlines resource-intensive industries, we are committed to continuously identifying opportunities to increase * Vehicles owned by our employees-the Company does not have any company cars. our energy efficiency and reduce GHG emissions. In 2018 we developed a Global Environmental Management System (EMS) and aligned it with international standards. We have successfully ENERGY IN GJ GHG EMISSIONS (tCO2e) implemented the EMS in the Company’s three offices in India (Chennai and Bangalore), which account Scope 1 2% Onsite Electricity for 52% of the total global employee workforce and Generation 813 Scope 2 14% are the hub of its product development activities. In Purchased Scope 3 84% Electricity 30,254 addition, we received ISO 14001:2015 certification for these three India locations. As part of our global CSR strategy, we are in the process of implementing the EMS to additional offices starting with major locations in Europe. This will increase the certification coverage of our business operations globally. In addition, we set up an EMS Desk, an internal TOTAL GHG EMISSIONS (tCO2e) – 2018 GHG EMISSIONS BY ACTIVITY (tCO2e) Company-wide mechanism in order to map our Online Electricity environmental footprint in relation to business travel, Scope 1 607 Generation 607 employee commute, energy and water consumption Purchased Scope 2 and waste generation and introduce ways to conserve 4,985 Electricity 4,985 resources in select locations globally with the largest Scope 3 29,063 Employee employee concentration. Since 2017, we have Commute 7,620 started measuring and reporting on our actual direct GHG Emissions (tCO2e) Business Travel by Air 21,443 and indirect energy consumption (electricity, heating, cooling) in our Temenos offices. For 2018, we have GHG Emissions (tCO2e) measured and reported the energy consumption and GHG emissions in the top 15 significant countries based on December 2018 headcount, with more * For more information on the calculations, please refer to About this Report on page 80. than 50 employees in the country, representing 92% of the total Temenos population. We are in the process of intensifying our EMS Desk efforts to establish a systematic way to measure and report on our water consumption and waste generation with the cooperation of the building owners, where our offices are located globally. 64 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Carbon Neutrality: Waste Management: In 2018, as part of our environmental responsibility Being an IT software company, due to the nature of strategy and in line with our commitment to measuring our business, waste generation is fairly limited and our global impact and implementing mitigation and restricted primarily to municipal solid waste, as well reduction initiatives, we set internal targets to reduce as a reasonable amount of e-waste from our internal energy consumption and invest in offset projects for the operations — from computers, printers, monitors and carbon we cannot reduce or replace. phones etc. Other waste includes a small proportion of regulated waste like batteries, waste lube oil, etc. For the past two years, as a part of Energy Savings Since all Temenos offices are located in large leased Opportunity Scheme 2015 requirements, we engaged office buildings with multi-occupancy, waste handling a third party to conduct an Energy efficiency audit in and disposal is handled by the building management line with BS EN 16247 standard at all our five UK companies, and hence not under Temenos control. offices and identified opportunities to improve our We have started working with the building owners energy efficiency. As a result, by the end of 2018, we to optimize waste management procedures, while achieved close to 35% energy reduction as compared encouraging our employees to recycle in our offices to last year. globally. Used IT equipment is cleaned of all data and software and it is either donated to non-governmental As an IT software company we rely on our people organizations or disposed in an eco-friendly manner who travel globally to deliver our services. So business through an authorized and certified recycler. travel by air constitutes our biggest environmental impact that cannot be easily reduced. 2019 goals >> To roll out our EMS to additional locations in After having fully mapped our environmental footprint Europe and increase the ISO 14001:2015 in relation to business travel, we decided to offset certification coverage our carbon footprint through purchase of voluntary >> To measure and report our water footprint in emission reduction certificates generated from a cooperation with the building owners globally Wind Power project in Tamilnadu in India, a material >> To measure and offset the emissions from our two location for Temenos, where our two Chennai offices biggest Temenos events: Global Sales Meeting and are located. This offsetting project, coordinated by Temenos Community Forum the Tamilnadu Spinning Mills Association (TASMA) >> To implement energy efficiency measures in offices focuses on renewable power generation (wind and with large employee concentration solar) and complies with the Verified Carbon Standard >> To introduce an energy champion within each (VCS), a global standard for GHG emission reduction Temenos office responsible for rolling out an energy and removal projects and programs. The VCS efficiency and training program. Program is the world’s leading voluntary program for the certification of GHG emission reduction projects. The TASMA project, apart from the environmental benefit, it offers social benefits to the local population by improving access to clean energy, education, and healthcare – all in alignment with the 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). CONTRIBUTION TO THE SDGs EMISSIONS OFFSET THROUGH COMMUNITY CARBON PROJECTS 21,442.50 tCO2e (As of December 2018) Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 65 Operating responsibly Investing in our people MAKING THE DIFFERENCE Our people are the key as they can make the HUMAN RIGHTS DIVERSITY, INCLUSION AND EQUAL difference. As one of our core values, we believe in the Temenos is committed to operating responsibly OPPORTUNITY power of people, since people make things happen and establishing high ethical standards across our We pride ourselves on our diverse workforce at and define our destiny. Our people are the most Company and in our supply chain. This commitment all levels of the Company, with 89 nationalities important and valuable Company asset constituting includes the promotion of and respect for Human Rights represented within the Company. We are committed the Temenos culture and helping the Company reach as recognized in international human rights standards. to attracting, developing, promoting and retaining a its business targets and bring exceptional value to our As a United Nations Global Compact participant, diverse workforce to better serve our diverse clients stakeholders. Temenos aims to create an open, fair, we respect and support the values of the Universal and to excel in the global marketplace, while creating equal opportunity and honest work environment where Declaration of Human Rights, the OECD Guidelines an inclusive environment in which all employees can all employees are treated with respect and courtesy for Multinational Enterprises and the International Labor contribute their unique knowledge and experience in an inclusive, productive and safe work environment. Organization’s (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental to make a real impact on the world around us. We All employees and contractors are responsible for Principles and Rights at Work by integrating human are committed to integrating diversity and inclusion upholding this principle and work towards making rights considerations into our business operations. principles into our business practices: from our hiring Temenos a great place to work. Our commitments We respect government policies in the countries processes to the development of our people, as well to communicate openly and respectfully with each where we operate, while seeking ways to honor as to the way we communicate with and reward other, to provide for diversity and equal employment these global principles. We conduct regular audits our people. As a result, this past year, we have put opportunity at all levels of our organization and to to check internal compliance with these standards. renewed focus and thought into advancing the diversity protect the health and safety of our employees are and inclusion agenda within the Company. Through an integral part of the Temenos Business Code of In 2018, we renewed our compliance with the UK such diversity, we have a dynamic work environment Conduct. Modern Slavery Act by issuing a Slavery and Human in which we continue to gather a wealth of knowledge Trafficking Statement where we outlined Temenos’ that contributes to our commercial success. Our Human Resources (HR) team is organized policies and procedures related to Fair Labor globally as well as across regions and countries to Standards and Respect for Human Rights throughout Since the IT industry is still male-dominated in many cater to the needs of our people at both local and our operations and supply chain, while describing countries, we are actively seeking to recruit women global level, with policies in place attuned to local our efforts to address modern slavery. In addition, and support them in their career development, with the conditions. The team includes groups focused on we have addressed our own as well as our suppliers’ aim of achieving a more equal representation of male HR operations, business partnering, compensation impact on human rights in our Business Code of and female employees in the business. The principles and benefits, mobility, data and systems, talent Conduct and related training, Supplier Code of and goals of the Universal Declaration of Human and development, recruitment and employee Conduct as well as our supplier performance and Rights are at the center of our diversity initiatives. communication and branding. Temenos global as risk assessment processes of our Global Procurement According to global studies, in 2016, fewer than well as local HR policies serve as the overall strategic policy and procedure. 25% of IT jobs in developed countries were held by direction and a clear point of contact and support on women. That figure is about the same in 2015. Gender HR issues for our employees and operations globally. imbalance in IT has been recognized as an issue since at least 2005. At Temenos, we have focused early on At the end of 2018, Temenos employed 5,744 people gender diversity in the IT workplace and have invested worldwide, including full-time employees, business in an equal opportunity environment for both men and partners and contractors. During 2018, we invested women and are currently at 34%, i.e. 9% higher than heavily in hiring new people, especially in Sales and the average in the IT industry in terms of male to female Pre-sales, while at the same time increasing the skill ratios. level globally. Our partnerships increasingly allow us to deliver a complete range of implementation and We have incorporated gender diversity in our support services to our clients and complement our Slavery and Human Trafficking recruiting and hiring practices at all levels, with a growth strategies. Most of our employees work as Statement 2018 special focus on the new generation, encouraging full-time, permanent employees. In 2018, we had 71 young women to choose a career in the IT industry, part-time employees (45 women and 26 men) and resulting in a female participation of 47% in the under 20 fixed-term employees (8 women and 12 men in 30 year old age segment of our workforce. Europe). All employee benefits are provided to full-time as well as temporary or part-time employees based on the requirements mandated by the laws in the countries where we operate and the locations where we recruit. 66 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements WORKFORCE DIVERSITY BY AGE AND GENDER % WOMEN IN THE TOTAL TEMENOS GENDER LESS THAN 30 % EMPLOYEES BY GENDER IN CERTAIN WORKFORCE REGIONS 2014 28% Female 47% United States 35 65 Male 53% 2015 29% Luxembourg 32 68 Romania 62 38 2016 31% Switzerland 22 78 2017 32% UK 24 76 2018 34% India 36 64 Female Male BOARD, EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE AND LEADERSHIP TEAM DIVERSITY % BOARD OF DIRECTORS BY % EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE BY % LEADERSHIP TEAM BY GENDER AND AGE GENDER AND AGE GENDER AND AGE Grand Total 12 88 Grand Total 0 100 Grand Total 29 71 50+ 12 88 50+ 0 60 50+ 0 42 30-50 0 0 30-50 0 40 30-50 29 29 <30 0 0 <30 0 0 <30 0 0 Female Male Female Male Female Male By 31 December 2018, our leadership team As part of this commitment, Temenos created a GENDER DIVERSITY (excluding the Executive Committee) consisted of Women@Temenos Forum providing the framework to ten men and four women. Our Board of Directors exchange and collaborate globally, a network that will consisted of seven men and one woman, while the help all Temenos women to be connected by sharing ROMANIA Executive Committee consisted of five men. In 2019, ideas, networking activities, articles and thoughts of the the Executive Committee membership changed day. In 2018, we built a community of 170+ Temenos Female 62% and as of March 2019 consists of four men and one Women ambassadors across the organization to work Male 38% woman, further advancing the diversity and inclusion locally on concrete actions to attract more women agenda within the Company. More information on our in the technology sector and develop Women@ 2019 Board of Directors and Executive Committee Temenos. Specific actions could be the participation to structure is on page 88 and on the corporate website women’s fora/technology events, mentoring, presence www.temenos.com. in school/University events, driving inclusion, sharing success, building confidence, training and developing In certain countries, where we have incorporated leaders at all levels, leadership talks and increasing UNITED STATES gender diversity in our recruiting and hiring practices at women’s visibility with articles of Inspiring Career all levels, we can witness a higher female participation. Journeys within Temenos. For example, our Temenos Female 35% Luxembourg office presented the Women@Temenos Male 65% Temenos has a gender pay gap of around 35% similar initiative to the Lux government and succeeded in to other software companies since the number of getting funding to be used in actions that encourage females as percentage of total employees reduces and promote women diversity in the organization. as the seniority increases. Temenos publishes the UK Gender Pay Gap Report which is available on our website. Temenos is committed to improving the quality of work life of all employees irrespective of gender, race, disability, age, and personal circumstances. We are committed to increasing the representation of women in Temenos at all levels, functions and locations, as well as to creating a strong network amongst women to support and help one another to develop across the organization. Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 67 Operating responsibly Investing in our people continued Being an equal opportunity employer, we do not EMPLOYEE RELATIONS GLOBAL MOBILITY, HEALTH mandate the disclosure of ethnicity and/or disability Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining AND SAFETY at the time of recruitment. Our business philosophy As stated in the Temenos Business Code of Conduct, As a software company, we rely heavily on our as well as our organizational structure are based we respect the right of our employees to join or not people to conduct our business. At Temenos, we are on cultural diversity, as we operate 67 offices in 41 to join trade unions or similar external representative committed to supporting our employees’ wellbeing countries globally. The Company is managed using organizations as defined in the ILO Declaration on and creating a healthy and safe work environment for a matrix of regional and global business functions Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, while we all employees, contractors and visitors by integrating incorporating activities of sales, service operations, engage in a constructive dialogue with employee appropriate health and safety (H&S) practices within training, product development, product management, representatives. Local employment laws and practices, our operations, as well as when traveling on business services management, marketing, key client relationship collective bargaining agreements and individual trips. We have integrated (H&S) in the management management and product support functions. We contract terms are followed. Where mandated by of our business in such a way that all activities are encourage decentralized work processes and local law, we have 100% employees covered by considered through the protection and prevention co-operation between our people across countries collective bargaining agreements. perspective. and regions, while having central processes on core activities, co-operation and decision-making. We provide policies, fora and communication All employees and contractors are expected to channels for hearing and addressing the concerns perform their work in compliance with the H&S The Company’s management structure is one with of our employees and resolving their issues in an laws, regulations, policies and procedures of regional directors, responsible for all business lines in open, fair and transparent manner. The minimum their locations. We meet the requirements of the each region. Our people come from a diverse pool notice period for significant operational changes H&S laws applicable in the countries in which we of countries and regions and share skills, resources is included in the collective bargaining agreement operate, having established local H&S procedures and support across geographies to promote synergies as and where mandated by law. In countries where and identified and assigned responsibilities and and learning across the organization, enhancing our there is no such mandate, we follow as a minimum accountabilities at the local level of our offices. reputation as a global but – at the same time – local the local law requirements. company, and ensuring we are best positioned to As a global organization, international mobility forms meet the needs of our clients. In addition, thanks to The freedom of association and collective bargaining an integral part of our service delivery to clients the diversity model we support, Temenos’ software is a quite fundamental principle which is respected and and our strategic plans for future growth. A globally has multiple country model platforms, tailored to valued by the Company for all of its employees. We mobile and dynamic workforce is key to providing the individual language, currency, regulatory and are committed to having a constructive and efficient and developing our expertise across the globe and reporting requirements of each country. This enables collaboration with trade unions and other employee maintaining our competitive advantage. The Company our software to be seamlessly integrated into banks representatives. We comply with all relevant collective has created global mobility and travel policies and around the world, adding incremental value from the bargaining agreements in countries where we operate. procedures, so as to provide the framework for very beginning of each project. We also require subcontractors to comply with all properly managing and addressing issues arising from relevant collective bargaining agreements and to working overseas on an international assignment or Consistent success in our fast paced, demanding provide documentation of compliance. Temenos traveling globally. sector is only achievable with a team of diverse, highly has only approximate records of the percentage committed and talented people. We strongly believe of employees covered by CLAs. In that regard, Temenos offers all its employees in making our commitment and focus on diversity and extended coverage with additional benefits in our inclusion a truly integrated part of the Company’s In France, Germany, Luxembourg and Brazil the regular international travel insurance program to adapt standard business practices that will bring added employees maintain work councils and health and to the latest developments related to global travel: value to all our stakeholders. safety committees. The HR departments work as an enabler and to make sure that all agreements are >> International travel insurance with worldwide cover ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION followed through as agreed. with no territorial exclusion for all employees and AND PREVENTION OF HARASSMENT their dependents traveling with them Temenos is proud of the diversity of its people and AGAINST FORCED AND >> International medical assistance when traveling believes in an equal employment opportunity for all. CHILD LABOR and reimbursement of medical expenses for the The work environment at Temenos is free of any type At Temenos, we condemn forced or compulsory labor employees and their dependents traveling with them of harassment based on race, religion, national origin, practices. We comply fully with local minimum age >> International liability and life insurance color, gender, age, marital status, sexual orientation or laws and requirements and do not employ children. >> Approval from HR and monitoring of employees disability or any other personal traits or characteristics We ensure this through our global and local HR and traveling in high-risk countries through the Temenos that are not work-related. Any behavior contrary recruitment policies. Travel Application and Global Travel Desk to this principle will not be tolerated. >> Travel security services and registration of high-risk travel on customized Insurance Company platform Through the respective communication channels, for tracking purposes employees are encouraged to report any concern >> Additional customized transportation and of discrimination and harassment. Any retaliation 24x7 security. with regard to any such report is strictly forbidden. In case a concern is raised or detected, an inquiry will We are constantly enhancing the security measures be launched as quickly as possible, which will be and training of our employees, aiming at mitigating the conducted carefully and with full discretion, and any travel risk for our employees. corrective or punitive action taken if appropriate. Our anti-discrimination and anti-harassment policies apply to employees and contractors, as well as suppliers, Partners and clients. In 2018, two concerns were raised by employees through the Anonymous Reporting mechanism relating to perceived feeling of discrimination. All filed cases have been successfully resolved. 68 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements HEALTH AND WELLNESS At Temenos we are committed to supporting our employees’ well-being and creating a work environment that helps employees maximize their physical and social wellness. Temenos global as well as local HR policies serve as the overall strategic direction and a clear point of contact and support on health and wellness issues for our employees and operations globally. We also encourage our employees to design actions and build groups on their own initiative that are tailored to their personal interests, time and work-life balance. These policies indicatively include: >> Work from home options, in order to balance work and personal life >> International travel and medical insurance, including health screening >> Onsite and offsite team bonding and recreation opportunities >> Onsite recreational rooms and stress management programs >> Energy corners with healthy office snacks >> Training and development programs >> Multiple channels of internal communication and engagement with our employees across countries and at all levels FLYING SHOE EMPLOYEE WELLNESS INITIATIVE >> Recognition of their work and contribution, as well as opportunities to learn more about Temenos and In 2018, Temenos Bangalore employees launched an while accumulating the number of steps each spend time with the leadership team employee wellness initiative, Flying Shoes, to motivate participant walked/jogged. The big challenge >> Employee engagement in community service and employees to get active with any form of exercise/ was to walk around the world (measuring the volunteering projects. activity. While walking or running is an everyday cumulative steps of all participants). They ended activity, our employees gamified it to make it more of up clocking the distance equivalent to 1.5 times a challenge or group activity. They formed employee the circumference of the Earth. Many of the groups, each group consisting of five people. 48 participants developed healthy habits after that teams (240 employees) registered to take part in this challenge and many more continued even after fitness challenge and started walking/jogging daily. the event was over. Temenos Chennai employees The challenge was for five weeks. Every Friday they set a target to duplicate the effort in 2019. published leaderboards to share that week’s winner, WELFARE OF WOMEN In 2016, the Welfare of Women was launched in initiatives that help women with their personality India, a focus group that drives affirmative actions for development. Through the ‘Dialogue’ forum, the welfare of women working in Temenos India. This WoW invites women leaders to come and share group is active in Bangalore and Chennai and is run their thoughts on leadership and excellence. by Temenos India women employees. WoW group decides and drives the employee-connect initiatives 2019 Goal: focusing on creating awareness on women’s health >> To launch similar to WoW initiatives globally. through workshops and programs, as well as lifestyle Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 69 Operating responsibly Investing in our people continued DIVERSITY DASHBOARD TOTAL HEADCOUNT* LAST FIVE YEARS BY EMPLOYMENT TYPE BY EMPLOYMENT TYPE AND GENDER 2014 3,647 Board of Board of Directors** 7 Directors** 1 6 2015 Business Business 4,440 96 15 81 Partners Partners 2016 External External 4,351 294 78 216 Contractors Contractors 2017 Temenos 5,347 Temenos 4,945 1,794 3,553 Employees Employees 2018 5,744 Female Male * Including newly acquired Avoka employees. ** Independent and Non-Executive Directors only. TEMENOS EMPLOYEES % BY GENDER BY GENDER AND AGE BY FUNCTION AND GENDER Female 34% 50+ 141 472 Services 376 1,099 Male 66% 30-50 902 2,224 Sales and 225 427 Marketing <30 751 857 Research and 923 1,679 Development General Female Male 270 348 Administration Female Male % BY REGION BY GENDER AND REGION BY FUNCTION AND AGE Asia Pacific 10% Americas 210 466 Services 301 920 254 Europe 26% Middle East Sales and India 48% and Africa 25 141 Marketing 110 410 132 Middle East India 939 1,656 Research and 1,052 1,384 166 and Africa 3% Development Europe 475 924 General Americas 13% 145 412 61 Administration Asia Pacific 145 366 <30 30-50 50+ Female Male 70 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES % BY GENDER BY GENDER AND REGION BY GENDER AND AGE Female 39% Americas 74 162 50+ 26 76 Male 61% Middle East 30-50 216 438 and Africa 3 18 India 304 371 <30 308 350 Europe 123 183 Female Male Asia Pacific 46 130 Female Male % BY REGION* % RATE BY GENDER AND REGION % RATE BY GENDER AND AGE Asia Pacific 12% Americas 1.4 3.0 50+ 0.5 1.4 Europe 22% Middle East India 48% 0.1 0.3 30-50 4.0 8.2 and Africa Middle East India 5.7 6.9 <30 5.8 6.5 and Africa 1% Europe 2.3 3.4 Americas 17% Female Male Asia Pacific 0.9 2.4 * New employee hires at a region/ Total number of new employee hires. Female Male EMPLOYEE TURNOVER % BY GENDER BY GENDER AND REGION BY GENDER AND AGE Female 34% Americas 27 48 50+ 16 38 Male 66% Middle East and Africa 1 9 30-50 110 240 India 97 169 <30 88 134 Europe 69 126 Female Male Asia Pacific 20 60 Female Male % BY REGION* % RATE BY GENDER AND REGION % RATE BY GENDER AND AGE Asia Pacific 13% Americas 0.5 0.9 50+ 0.3 0.7 Europe 31% Middle East 0.0 0.2 India 42% and Africa 30-50 2.1 4.5 Middle East India 1.8 3.2 <30 1.6 2.5 and Africa 2% Europe 1.3 2.4 Americas 12 % Female Male Asia Pacific 0.4 1.1 * New employee hires at a region/ Total number of new employee hires. Female Male Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 71 Operating responsibly Investing in our people continued EMPLOYEE COMMUNICATION MyVoice At Temenos, we understand what competencies Every two years we carry out MyVoice, an employee (skills, knowledge and behaviors) our people need AND ENGAGEMENT engagement survey to gain feedback on what it is like to excel in their roles and what they need to develop Direct communication and engagement with our to work at Temenos and how we can work together to grow further in their career. Temenos offers a variety employees is one of the most important aspects of the to make Temenos an even better place to work. of learning and development opportunities, including Temenos culture and philosophy and a way of building The survey is conducted on an anonymous and training available in the classroom, on the job, a stronger link between the Company and its people. confidential basis by Gartner, a third party survey online, and through videos, mobile apps, podcasts, We are committed to clearly communicating our provider, so that employees openly give their and other formats in multiple languages, to meet the corporate goals, objectives and successes, building feedback and is administered under the Safe Harbour learning needs of our employees around the world. strong working relationships between our employees, certification which guarantees confidentiality to all We provide core training, professional certifications, creating employee engagement and promoting an respondents that participate in their surveys. Previous personal and management development opportunities environment of ethics, transparency and trust within surveys have identified career management, relevant delivered through various channels that form part of Temenos. Employee feedback is vital for Temenos, to training and communication as some of the key the employee’s learning portfolio. Various learning shape the direction of our policies and initiatives and areas and these have all been addressed through paths and training are provided through both internal get assurance that they are tailored in such a way improvement initiatives. and external training partners which allows employees that cater to the needs of our people to drive a great to execute their development approach using a style employee experience while maintaining a positive The 2018 MyVoice employee engagement survey that suits their needs and personality. To emphasize employer brand. took place during February-March 2018, with 85% on flexible and collaborative learning opportunities, response rate, covering all Temenos employees in we have introduced a training calendar on our We have a company culture that promotes transparent all regions plus the employees that joined Temenos intranet, where employees can self-register for any communication as well as easy access to all people at through merger or acquisitions. The objective of the ongoing training, follow-up on any training sessions all levels. Our open door policy is greatly supported MyVoice survey was to hear from our employees, and engage with Talent and Development to improve by the latest communication technologies. The design and align actions with employees’ priorities. the overall learning experience at Temenos. Company has invested heavily in adopting the latest Using the MyVoice feedback, the Company shaped its telecommunications, digital and web-conferencing global strategy accordingly and identified a number of In 2018, we achieved to increase the average number technologies to facilitate project delivery and key initiatives, as part of the HR action plan for 2018of training days to 17 days per employee compared Company operation and ensuring each employee 19. In addition, we were also able to identify areas of to 11 days in 2017, excluding on-the-job training, feels included and engaged in the Company culture. improvement specific to geographies or divisions that coaching and other self-service development activities The Company has invested in Skype for Business were addressed locally. MyVoice is scheduled to be not recorded in our systems. software, which serves as the basic communication repeated in 2020. tool within Temenos globally. In addition, we have Throughout the year, employees get coaching on fully functional video conference rooms in all office TALENT AND DEVELOPMENT career development through meetings with their locations globally, with very advanced video, audio Learning and development are of vital importance to manager and HR. Managers receive training to and web conferencing capabilities, supported both our employees’ performance and engagement, enhance their skills in managing others and coaching by a global reservation system to facilitate the as well as to Temenos’ success and growth. We and mentoring employees on how to achieve the communication between employees. Some of the believe in our people’s potential and consider this as greatest impact, as well as how to drive their own other tools we use on a daily basis are our Company our competitive advantage. We believe training is not career development, providing tools and resources intranet, email, webex, blogs, yammer and Sharepoint. limited to formal instruction and our learning philosophy to support focused and actionable conversations. focuses on career development frameworks We also offer all new employees a comprehensive We have established multiple channels to (Pathfinder), career and performance management induction training that covers a broad range of topics, communicate and engage with our employees across (Compass), diverse learning opportunities and such as onboarding practices as well as organized countries and at all levels, including intranet, yammer, employee recognition programs which overall support global, divisional (Sales, Finance, Product, etc.) and blogs, video updates, internal newsletters targeting the leadership and organizational development local Induction Training to help them settle into their different corporate areas, townhalls with leaders, strategies at Temenos. new roles quickly and effectively. employee engagement survey, new hire survey, other internal operational surveys, helpdesks and an anonymous reporting mechanism. All employees are provided regular updates throughout the year on the Company’s strategy through Chief Executive Officer business updates, supplemented by clear communication from regional management, HR and Marketing. MYVOICE 2018* LEARNING SPACE >> 85% response rate >> 58 questions >> Engagement: 16 categories measured 1 2 >> New categories: >> Agility Induction, Product and >> Diversity and Inclusion mandatory process training >> Alignment is a distinct category now training and onboarding MYVOICE 2016 1 2 >> 79% response rate LEARNING >> 55 questions SPACE >> Engagement: 13 categories measured 4 3 * Excluding Avoka employees. 4 3 Soft-skills and management On-the-job training development training and learning events 72 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Career Development Framework (Pathfinder) Temenos Sales Academy Using feedback from the annual employee Academy is a one-year program targeting AVERAGE HOURS OF engagement survey, a career development framework fresh graduates and early professionals TRAINING PER YEAR PER – Pathfinder – has been developed and rolled out that designed to cultivate the next generation of Sales EMPLOYEE BY GENDER AND provides employees with a clear understanding of the champions. In September 2017, 21 young people expectations in their current roles and the opportunities from around the globe joined the Temenos Sales EMPLOYEE CATEGORY* they have to develop their future career at Temenos. Academy. Temenos is committed to attracting, Pathfinder’s bespoke Career Development Framework developing and retaining untapped talent in the sets out what skills, knowledge and behaviors global market. In 2018 we expanded the Academy (competencies) are needed in a particular job family beyond Sales and Business Solutions group to include BY GENDER and role at a specific level within a function. The Marketing as well. The 30 participants of the 2018framework defines a structure where all roles within a 2019 program have 22 different nationalities and 2018 174 job family carry out similar tasks and require broadly 46% among them are female trainees. 122 similar skills and competencies, but operate at different 2017 levels of bands, where competencies are aligned Their training focuses on fundamental concepts of 102 as per career progression and growth. Pathfinder 81 Sales and Business Solutions. Based in Luxembourg clarifies the “paths” for development of competencies for their first 3.5 to 6.5 months, depending on their and progression criteria that enables individuals to respective sales profession, participants are taught Female proactively manage their own career, performance, a comprehensive set of skills from banking, industry Male training and development needs at Temenos by knowledge, product and software knowledge, to the aligning both their hard skills (technical/functional) soft skills of selling, communication and presentation. and soft skills (behavioral). Once their classroom training is completed, BY EMPLOYEE CATEGORY participants move to their respective regions, where Career and Performance Management (Compass) they put into practice what they have learned. 2018 17 At Temenos we urge our people to achieve their full 209 potential, by focusing on their career development Sales Trainees will become members of the Regional 47 101 and planning. Career management through Pathfinder Sales team and will work directly with Regional is supported by a performance management process Marketing on lead generation for the remainder of in the Compass tool, which provides employees their 12 months while participating and contributing to 2017 13 with feedback on their work and helps them create sales cycles. Business Solutions Trainees will become 100 a development plan to build on their strengths and members of their respective Temenos Regional 47 improve their skills, knowledge and behaviors. Business Solutions teams and will be involved in 115 The performance management process within 2018 indoor engagements first to get additional practice has been split into two phases in the Compass experience; they will then start to work outdoor at General platform: Year-end review and Start-of-year plan. client sites after having developed their first hands-on Administration By the end of 2018, 77% (employees only) had set knowledge and having been mentored and coached Research and their business priorities as part of their 2018 plan. by successful industry leaders. Development Sales and Temenos Incubation Center Temenos Services Masterclass Marketing The Temenos Fintech Services Incubator first opened In 2018, we launched the Services Masterclass Services its doors in 2017, bringing together Technical program in Greece and Romania, aiming to train and Consultants who wanted to fast-track their careers on-board senior professionals to our European services and combine the passion for fintech with travel. The team. With this Masterclass program we are looking to Incubation Center aims to on-board and prepare develop the next generation of senior consultants who * Excluding Avoka employees. Technical Consultants and Business Consultants who will have the opportunity to work on some of our most will have the opportunity to work on some of our most exciting projects, spread across Europe. exciting projects, spread across Europe. On joining the Incubation Center, the participants attend an intensive On joining the Masterclass, candidates will attend an three-month training program, introducing them to intensive two-month training program, introducing them our product. In the second phase of their training, to our products. During the second phase, they will the trainees move into shadowing an experienced move into shadowing an experienced T24 colleague Temenos consultant on various projects, making their on a project, making their way to the final stage – way to working independently on-site with our clients. working independently on-site with our client. 2018 YEAR END REVIEW* % BY EMPLOYEE CATEGORY % BY GENDER Not Initiated 7 3 24 4 Female Male Not Eligible 15 7 18 8 Completed 77% Completed 78% Pending 7 5 9 7 Pending 6% Pending 7% Not eligible 12% Not eligible 8% Completed 71 84 49 80 Not initiated 5% Not initiated 7% General Administration Research and Development Sales and Marketing Services * Excluding Avoka employees. Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 73 Operating responsibly Investing in our people continued EMPLOYEE RECOGNITION Recognition of great work and key contributions by both individuals and teams is critical to Temenos. Through these recognition programs, we encourage all employees at all levels to embrace the opportunity to appreciate great work and recognize efforts of performance excellence of their colleagues, team members, peers and supervisors. The Club and Chairman’s Club The Club celebrates our top performing Sales and Business Solutions colleagues from around the world in a unique way – a trip with our Chief Executive Officer. In 2018, 98 winners with their partners visited Scotland, spending quality time with our top management as part of the Temenos family. In the past, the Club awardees traveled to Iceland, Vietnam, Barbados, Capri in Italy, Kenya and India. In 2019, 80 winners with their partners will visit Sri Lanka, accompanied by our senior management. In addition, through the Chairman’s Club we recognize people who for several years have significantly contributed to Temenos growth from diverse parts of the Company. In 2018, the Chairman invited the five winners (three men – two women) and their partners to an exclusive weekend hosted by himself and his wife. In 2019, he has invited six winners (five men – one woman) from sales, product and finance. GREAT PLACE TO WORK Watch the video online . CELEBRATING EXCELLENCE In April 2018, the Temenos Greece office This award is a vote of confidence in the competed, won and was recognized as one of continuing hard work and commitment of our the Best Workplaces in Greece by Great Place talented and inspirational Temenos Greece Group to Work®. This is the first time that any Temenos office has entered a Great Place to Work or employees. With an impressive 97,56% participation response rate, Temenos Greece C level similar competition globally. This distinction is in exceeded the average 86,76% of other Chairman’s Club Annually line with our global strategy aiming at raising companies. Furthermore, the Temenosian pride Club awareness about the Temenos employer brand and loyalty were demonstrated through the and demonstrating globally how our people, the 99% positive response rate in the Employee most important asset of Temenos, contribute to Trust Index. . our commercial success. We pride ourselves in Regional/ relying and investing in our employees, a global 2019 Goal: Divisional team of diverse, highly committed and talented people. We strongly believe in the “People To duplicate this effort in other Temenos offices globally. Quarterly Quarterly Regional Awards Power” adding value every day and we want Shared Services Awards our employees to feel the same. Our People are the KEY! Individual . Temenos Values Badges Daily Frequency 74 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Enabling access to financial services OPENING DOORS According to the World Bank, around two billion The biggest challenge to digitizing has always PAYMENTS AND ELECTRONIC people do not use formal financial services and more been the cost of software, computer services and DELIVERY TO REMOTE COMMUNITIES than 50% of adults in the poorest households are the expertise to run new system. Temenos brings the The world’s most vulnerable communities need unbanked. Others are exploited by opportunistic micro technology used by the world’s leading banks to access to affordable, trusted financial services. lenders at usurious rates. The world’s most vulnerable community banking to grow the client base to make Community banks must digitize now or risk being communities need access to affordable, trusted a real difference with quality services for inclusive dis-intermediated from their clients and their clients financial services. Financial inclusion is a key enabler banking in emerging markets in Africa, Latin America will become burdened with expensive consumer to reducing poverty and boosting prosperity. At the same and Asia. Nine out of ten people live in emerging credit transferring wealth from the poorest to the top time, digital is creating world-changing innovations, markets and without a safe place to save and of the economic pyramid. Local community banks but also disrupting industry and how people work. a source of credit and other financial services will and non-bank financial institutions need to provide remain excluded from the formal economy. competitive, quality financial services to the poor and STRENGTHENING LOCAL FINANCIAL protect themselves from dis-intermediation. Without INTERMEDIATION LOWERING COSTS – ACCESS TO a clear digital strategy, local financial institutions will Credit unions, savings banks, microfinance, community QUALITY FINANCIAL SERVICES cease to be viable. Financial markets deepening is an banks and other non-bank financial institutions are With our subscription based ‘Software as a Service’ incremental process. To reach the two billion unbanked the foundation to sustainable financial inclusion and clients can quickly implement the products their clients we need local agents and institutions continuously the development of healthy sustainable local financial want without a high one-off capital investment in pushing the frontier of finance. markets. At Temenos we understand the need to software, hardware or in house technical expertise. strengthen and support community based banking. The first two or three transaction fees on an e-wallet At Temenos, we have aligned with this goal to continue Our approach to support the development of payment account alone pays the entire cost of the to innovate and push the cost of intermediation down, healthy and productive local economies is to provide service. By taking a network approach, sharing common ever expanding sustainable access to formal financial community banks, cooperative financial institutions software, computer infrastructure and service centers, services. Temenos provides a complete end-to-end, and various non-bank financial institutions with modern community based financial institutions can have access to customized, retail core banking and channel solution to digital technology and services to strengthen their the same tools the big banks and mobile operators have, help local financial institutions thrive. And as the sectors business to serve their communities and expand provided as a service. They need only to configure the biggest investor in R&D, we will continue to innovate their outreach to the unbanked. services with Temenos and our business Partner expert and support community banking to provide the services assistance to launch their own business, running their own that are the key to financial inclusion, creating wealth We do this as part of our mainstream business. payments and digital services; services clients demand and growing local economies. We bundle our latest release Temenos core banking – keeping clients in the local community network and technology in a mature model bank for community attracting the youth. DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION OF and cooperative banking and provide access to the RURAL FINANCE integration and digital channels in a cloud based Doing nothing is not an option. Fintech and Digital banking is about strengthening client software-as-a-service (or local) basis. This helps international payments schemes aimed at the two relationships, modernizing services and attracting smaller financial institutions gain access to the same billion unbanked are now pushing microcredit young social network savvy clients in the mass markets technology used by some of the largest and most under the rubric of financial inclusion, some at rates of Asia, Africa and Latin America. Temenos helps modern banks in the world but made accessible of upwards of 600% APR and with payments at this sector with a business engagement that is suited by subscription service and packaged for rapid transaction rates that are disproportionate to the to the budget and practical realities of this important implementation. transaction amount. sector in emerging markets. Cognizant of the business realities and having 20 years of experience in financial FINANCIAL INCLUSION STRATEGIES inclusion, we believe that our best contribution is a Temenos financial inclusion strategy is to provide the business engagement that is self-sustaining and sets same technology infrastructure used by modern digital the stage for growing a strong and vibrant community banks in established financial markets to empower small banking foundation for financial inclusion. financial institutions in emerging markets to compete and exponentially grow their client base providing quality, affordable, digital financial services to the poor. Temenos provides the technology and expertise to build digital services to compete with mobile network operators, Fintech and commercial banks that are after the very valuable membership base community banks and credit unions have developed over decades. It is essential that the community banks keep their client spend within their own community-banking network, generate new revenue and build on their greatest asset – the trusted client relationship. Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 75 Operating responsibly Investing in our communities CARING FOR OUR COMMUNITIES COMMUNITY INVESTMENT Corporate Monetary Contributions As a global corporation, we are committed to We rely on the efforts of all our employees to help OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES supporting and enhancing the quality of life of the us identify emerging issues and local community communities where our employees, Partners, and needs where Temenos can reach out, design programs >> Poverty Alleviation and Local Economic clients live and work. By using our technology and and contribute to the communities in the regions where Development resources, offering financial support, sharing our we operate and monitor the progress. We cooperate >> Children business expertise as well as the passion, effort and with our people in our local offices on the review, >> Youth Development talent of our employees, collaborating with clients evaluation and selection procedure that is based on >> Technology and Innovation and Partners, we are making positive, measurable local community-need assessments. Our community >> Environment contributions to the local communities, while investment is aligned with our mission, business >> Emergency Relief responding in times of need. strategy, employee concentration and CSR strategic priorities, ranging from long term programs to short Our Approach term initiatives. In 2017-2018 we awarded around >> Corporate monetary contributions USD 300,000 to community development projects In addition, the Temenos Internal Audit team conducts >> Corporate monetary contributions that complement mainly in India and Romania. Temenos evaluates the yearly independent, objective audits of the Company’s the donations or volunteer efforts of our employees effectiveness and impact of its community investment by corporate monetary contributions, in relation to the >> Corporate donations of used IT equipment maintaining contact with organizations it supports both Anti-bribery and Corruption and Conflict of Interest >> Employee fundraising (volunteering their time to improve management of existing projects and to policies. The results of these audits are shared with the and/or money) and identify future opportunities and by communicating its CSR and Ethics Committee and the Audit Committee. >> Volunteering (donation of professional service, CSR program to the Company’s stakeholders through All donations and non-commercial sponsorships management expertise, skills and time to non-profit the Company’s communication channels. requests are submitted online through the Temenos organizations or local communities). intranet for review and evaluation by the CSR and Ethics Committee during its regular meetings. At Temenos we are looking for ways to go beyond financial resources and consider how to make best 2018 DONATIONS Corporate Monetary Contributions and use of our assets, resources, expertise, advocacy, Employee Fundraising and relationships to support and enhance the local Temenos encourages all employees to actively 2018 DONATIONS BY CSR AREAS engage in community service and fundraising activities communities. In order to maximize the social impact of our community investment, we focus on the social for a social cause for non-profit organizations, based impact rather than the donated budget. In addition, Children 31% in the countries where we operate, by giving them we have aligned our community investment with our Poverty the chance to boost their fundraising efforts through mission and the strategic issues of our business to alleviation 66% corporate matching of the raised funds. create shared value. We look for Partners rather than Youth as the principal actor in promoting local development development 2% Donations of Used IT Equipment and creating long term benefits and sustainable results We work at a local level to donate desktops, that can outlast Company support. laptops, screens, printers and other IT equipment that are no longer used by the Company to non-profit organizations or schools based in the countries where we operate. All laptops and desktops are cleaned of all data and software before being donated due to % 2018 DONATIONS BY REGION confidentiality, licensing and data protection issues. CONTRIBUTION TO THE SDGS Australia Employee Volunteering and Community Service 2 Our people offered their time and expertise to support Asia 41 local community organizations, as well as to donate management time and expertise to support nonEurope 56 governmental organizations in the Company’s core activities. In 2018, Temenos launched the Temenos North America 1 Volunteering Day. Local HR with CSR champions in our offices globally select a day during the year based on the UN global days and organize a local volunteering activity for Temenos employees of that location. As recognition of our employees’ volunteer work, Temenos is granting one day-off annually for volunteering during the Temenos Volunteering Day. 76 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements SUPPORTING LOCAL COMMUNITIES Poverty Alleviation and Local Economic Development: India CSR Program Temenos is committed to finding ways to use technology to enable social change, by supporting disadvantaged local communities, enhancing their living standards as well as their work skills and capabilities and helping them gain access to finance, health and jobs. India is a material location for Temenos as it represents 52% of our total employee concentration. Education is one of the most powerful instruments for reducing poverty and inequality and enhancing India’s competitiveness in the global economy. Based on global research, while more than 95% of children attend primary school, just 40% of Indian adolescents attend secondary school (Grades 9-12). Curriculum and teaching practices need upgrading to impart more relevant skills, such as reasoning skills, problem-solving, learning-to-learn and critical and independent thinking. Public-private partnerships need to be expanded to tap into the potential offered by the 60% of secondary schools which are privately managed in India. In 2017, Temenos launched a comprehensive CSR program in India “Adopt iT” to help improve the quality of secondary education in India and eventually access to quality education for more. The concept was to identify secondary schools in need (government aided schools – privately managed) and use technology to enable social change. Our goal was to provide young students from disadvantaged local communities with digital skills and capabilities and help them unleash future opportunity and gain access to jobs, health and finance. In 2017, Manur Chengalvaraya Naidu Higher Secondary School was identified and the first pilot project was implemented. In 2018 after a due diligence process of nine schools in total, two schools were selected in Chennai and Bangalore. St. Columba’s Higher Secondary School is located Watch the video online in Chennai, 55 kilometers from one of the Chennai Temenos offices. The school has 1,127 students (313 girls and 814 boys). The second school, Government Kannada Higher Primary School is located in Bangalore, 4.5 kilometers from our office in Bangalore. The 91-year-old school has 172 students. During 2017-2018, through the Temenos Adopt iT project, we built computer labs in three schools in India. In addition, we focused our actions on encouraging gender equality and inclusive education for all, by building girls’ restrooms in two schools in India, helping girls stay in school and gain equal access to education and opportunities in life. Global research has shown that by providing water, hygiene and sanitation facilities in schools, children’s regularity to school can be substantially improved, as they will have fewer illnesses due to water borne infections and in the long term, it has the potential to reduce drop-out rates, especially among girls, in upper primary and secondary school levels. Our Temenos India employees volunteered their time and skills during the initial phase to help with the setup of the computer labs and throughout the year, by teaching more than 1,500 students about computers, as well as art. Watch the video online Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 77 Operating responsibly Investing in our communities continued Children Temenos, in cooperation with leading non-profit organizations in the communities where we operate, organizes and supports initiatives that help improve the living conditions of children irrespective of their color, race, religion, nationality, or socio-economic status, by providing them with a healthy start and the opportunity to learn, while advocating and protecting their basic human rights and providing them with emotional and psychological support. In 2018, we continued to support two organizations at a global, as well as at a local level, where Temenos has a significant number of employees: ‘JOURNÉE OSER TOUS LES MÉTIERS’ – SWITZERLAND >> School for Children with Hearing Disabilities In November 2018, our Temenos Lausanne employees Resources, Administration, IT, Business Analysis, Product in Bucharest, Romania organized ‘Journée Oser tous les Métiers’. The goal Management, Development and Testing. Apart from >> “Save a Child’s Heart” initiative in Bucharest, was to ‘expose’ Temenos employees’ children to a real that, the children had the opportunity to simulate a Romania. working environment and introduce them to ‘genderrecruitment interview, participate in dismantling and neutral’ careers that were traditionally deemed female reassembling a laptop and even develop their own or male. During the day, the children met with Temenos game using Scratch program. employees from different departments such as Human ADOPT A KID – INDIA In 2018, Temenos India employees have raised USD 6,210 in order to assist 28 kids whose families (either two parents or a single INSPIRING KIDS TO BE FUTURE READY! – SINGAPORE parent) were facing financial difficulties. In November 2018, our Temenos Singapore collaboration of Future Ready Academy, they tried to employees organized internally an activity to inspire give these kids a glimpse of the future and hopefully young minds into computational and creative thinking. ignite their interest on key areas like robotics, coding, They invited children, especially from less privileged AI and all things digital. backgrounds for a day of learning and fun. With the Watch the video online ‘GIVE A SMILE’ PROJECT FOR CHILDREN WITH HEARING DISABILITIES – ROMANIA For more than 12 years, Temenos has been supporting Temenos Romania volunteers accompanied the School for Children with Hearing Disabilities in 30 primary school children with hearing disabilities Bucharest, Romania, in collaboration with Rotary to do Christmas shopping and choose their presents. Pipera Club from Rotary International. In December These children come from very low-income families 2018, in line with the “Give a Smile” project, and they live in the boarding school. 78 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements EMERGENCY RELIEF – INDIA TEMENOS EMPLOYEES FUN RUN 2018 380 Temenos employees and partners run 5K during alleviation and local economic development program, the two most prominent Temenos events: Global that started in 2018 and is scheduled to be completed Sales Meeting (GSM) 2018 in Lisbon and Temenos in 2020Temenos awarded USD 30,000 to the local Community Forum (TCF) 2018 in Dublin to support the community in Kenya, aiming at training 400 villagers, local community of a village in Kenya, in partnership creating around 350 jobs and lifting 1,250 children with Hand in Hand International. Through this poverty and adults out of poverty. VOLUNTEERING FOR THE ENVIRONMENT – ROMANIA We are committed to supporting the local communities, where we operate, when Temenos Romania employees volunteered to “Let’s Along with 136,000 volunteers, Temenos Romania affected by unexpected events or disasters Do It, Romania!”, the biggest national volunteering employees gathered 168,000 bags of PET, glass, of any kind as well as providing assistance to event in Romania, with the aim to gather the waste from plastic bottles, aluminum cans, textiles, and shoes and non-profit organizations and emergency relief protected lands and habitats. electronics waste. agencies to prepare and respond to these humanitarian crises. In August 2018, Kerala floods claimed the lives of 370 people across India, while dislocating 1,247,496 people, as a result of the intense flooding. In November 2018, Cyclone Gaja, claimed 45 lives across India. Temenos India employees collected and provided 45 cartons of food, supplies and relief material to families that were affected by these natural disasters. 2019 Goals FOOD BANK FOOD BANK >> To expand the Adopt iT program to more schools in India VOLUNTEERING – CANADA VOLUNTEERING – USA >> To explore partnerships with Universities in India to help young graduates gain digital skills and Temenos Canada employees volunteered at the Avoka Temenos employees in Colorado capabilities and access to jobs Greater Vancouver Food Bank, sorting food to volunteered at Broomfield FISH, a food bank >> To focus 2019 partnerships with NGOs on poverty be distributed to its members. serving those in need at the local community, alleviation and local development initiatives for sorting the incoming donations to stock the food a bigger impact bank’s shelves. >> To organize more volunteering opportunities for our employees in line with our CSR strategic priorities >> To match up to five employee fundraising activities in line with our Donations’ policy focusing on poverty alleviation and local development >> To raise awareness about Temenos’ social campaign for financial inclusion within our client-Partner network. Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 79 Operating responsibly About this report Unless otherwise indicated, the information provided Energy and emissions calculations follow the in this report reflects the situation as of 31 December Greenhouse Gas Protocol with reference to 2018 and covers all Temenos operations globally ISO 14064:2006 –‘Greenhouse gases, Part 1: during the financial year 2018. This report is prepared Specification with guidance at the organization in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative level for quantification and reporting of greenhouse Standards (Core), a set of internationally recognized gas emissions and removals. In the report, the metric reporting standards. Please see our online GRI ton/UK ton equivalent to 1,000 kilograms is stated Standards Index for detailed data and additional solely as ton. The emissions are noted on the basis of information. In addition, it serves as Temenos’ annual measured or estimated energy and fuel use, multiplied Communication on Progress under the United Nations by significant carbon emission factors such as DEFRA, (UN) Global Compact. This is our third Corporate GHGP, ICAO, ICEA, USPEA. All emissions figures are Responsibility Report. No restatements were done. in tons of carbon dioxide equivalents (CO2e). We have assured the content through an internal review process, including Board of Directors and Our headcount related figures are based on the GRI executive oversight of reviews and validation. Apart Standards and cover all Temenos operations globally, from the internal review process, an independent in full alignment with the Annual Report and Financial third party, Grant Thornton S.A. has provided their Statements section. The data sources are the corporate assurance on Temenos CSR Report 2018. The internal IT and HR systems, which provide data on scope of the assured information is indicated in the full-time and part-time employees and permanent and independent practitioner’s assurance report. Our first temporary employees. The total Temenos headcount report with GRI was published in 2017. includes the number of employees from the recent acquisition of Avoka that was completed within Temenos operates 67 offices in large, leased, multiDecember 2018. tenant buildings in 41 countries (including newly acquired Avoka). Temenos’ energy reporting and When referring to Governance Bodies, we include: corresponding Scope 1 and 2 emissions cover the Board of Directors, Executive Committee and time period from December 1, 2017 to November 30, Leadership Team. Training as well as Environmental 2018 for 40 Temenos offices in top 15 countries, due data for financial year 2018 do not include to restrictions set by the availability and invoicing from Avoka employees. the management companies of the buildings we lease. These top 15 countries – considered as significant locations of operation – were selected based on 31 December 2018 headcount, with more than 50 employees, representing 92% of the total Temenos population. The locations are as follows: India, CONTACT United States, United Kingdom, Romania, Australia, Luxembourg, Singapore, Switzerland, Canada, United The 2018 Temenos CSR Report explains our policies, Arab Emirates, China, Germany, Ecuador, France, procedures, programs and performance on our and Greece. The energy consumption of these offices material, environmental, social and governance (ESG) represent actual consumption as reported on invoices issue areas as well as how we address other important from utility providers and management companies CSR issues. We welcome your feedback on the apart from three offices. The consumption for these activities and programs described in the report, as well three offices is based on the last year’s same period as the issues you expect to see addressed in the future. consumptions due to unavailability of invoice before Please email your comments to the below address. the CSR report publication time. Our Scope 3 business travel related emissions from Kalliopi Chioti flights cover the financial year 2018 and all the Director of Sustainability and Social Responsibility countries where Temenos operates, representing Tel.: +30 211 1094604 100% of the total employee concentration. The data csr@temenos.com were collected from the Company travel management system as well as travel agency providers. Our Scope 3 employee commute related emissions were gathered through an online, global, internal employee survey. The survey covered various aspects such as distance between home and the office, modes of transport – personal vehicles, mass transit, cycling, carpooling, walking, fuel efficiencies of personal vehicles used, average number of work from home or client locations. The data gathered cover personal vehicles owned by our employees, since the Company does not provide any company cars. The emissions have been calculated based on fuel efficiency, total distance traveled, fuel types and characteristics and emission factor for the fuel used. 80 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Independent assurance report TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF GRANT THORNTON RESPONSIBILITY INDEPENDENCE TEMENOS Our responsibility is to carry out a limited assurance Grant Thornton implements the requirements of The Board of Directors of Temenos S.A. (the engagement and to express our conclusions based on International Standard on Quality Control 1. Based “Company”) engaged “Grant Thornton S.A. the procedures carried out for the selected data, as on this, it maintains an integrated quality control system Chartered Accountants Management Consultants” described in the “Scope” section. that includes policies and procedures for compliance (“Grant Thornton”) to review selected non-financial/ with moral principles, professional standards and sustainability data included in the Annual Report of The procedures we carried out were designed to relevant legal and regulatory requirements. We Temenos (in the section Operating Responsibly) for the provide limited assurance, as specified in ISAE 3000, comply with the independence requirements and fiscal year ended on December 31st, 2018 (“selected based on which we shaped the conclusion to our other ethical standards of the IFAC Code of Ethics for data”), in accordance with the Global Reporting engagement. These procedures are not as extensive Professional Accountants of the International Ethics Initiative (GRI) Standards (“GRI-Standards”). For the as those required for providing reasonable assurance; Standards Board for Accountants (IESBA), which purposes of this Report, Temenos encompasses the consequently, a lower level of assurance is obtained. is based on the fundamental principles of integrity, 67 offices which operates in 41 countries. There is an impartiality, professional adequacy, confidentiality and exception to the environmental data presented in the Our responsibility is limited to the information related to the professional conduct. In this context, the assurance Report which refer only to the top 15 countries (most fiscal year that ended on December 31, 2018, as these team is independent from the Company and has not significant locations of operation) of Temenos: India, were included in the Temenos Annual Report 2018. participated in the preparation of the Temenos Annual United States, United Kingdom, Romania, Australia, Report 2018. Luxembourg, Singapore, Switzerland, Canada, To the extent it is permitted by the legislation in force, United Arab Emirates, China, Germany, Ecuador, we neither accept nor assume any responsibility for CONCLUSION France and Greece. our engagement or this report towards anyone other Based on the procedures performed and evidence than the Company, unless the terms have been agreed obtained, nothing has come to our attention that explicitly in writing, with our prior consent. causes us to believe that there are any errors or SCOPE We performed our engagement in accordance with misstatements that would materially affect the International Standard on Assurance Engagements LIMITATIONS sustainability disclosures (including explanatory notes 3000, Assurance Engagements other than Audits or > To conduct our work, we relied exclusively and relevant references) as presented in the Annual Reviews of Historical Financial Information (“ISAE on the information provided to us by Temenos Report of Temenos for the year ended 31 December 3000”), in order to provide limited level assurance executives, which we accepted in good faith as 2018. Moreover, nothing has come to our attention opinion on the selected non-financial/sustainability being complete, accurate, real and not misleading. that causes us to believe that the sustainability data data of the Annual Report 2018, with regard to: Therefore, we did not submit it to any verification presented, are not prepared, in all material aspects, in procedures, apart from the procedures explicitly accordance with the criteria mentioned above, in the > The “In accordance” – Core adherence related to stated in our Report and which arise from our “Scope of work” section GRI Standards. mutually agreed methodology. > The completeness and accuracy of quantitative > Our engagement was limited to the English version Panagiotis Christopoulos data and the plausibility of statements related of the report. Athens, 15 March 2019 to GRI 102: General Disclosures. > No work has been conducted on data for previous The Chartered Accountant > The completeness and accuracy of Disclosures on reporting periods, as well as on data related to CPA (GR) Reg. No.28481 Management Approach, which correspond to ten forecasts and targets. Grant Thornton (10) material issues (Disclosures 201-1, 203-1, > No work has been conducted on anything other 205-2, 302-1, 305-2, 308-1, 404-3, 401-1), as than the agreed scope and consequently, our well as to the two (2) specific Temenos’ indicators. opinion is limited to that scope. > The completeness and accuracy of the GRI Topic specific Standards on the previous ten (10) material WORK CONDUCTED issues Disclosures 201-1, 203-1, 205-2, 302-1, We conducted our work so as to collect all the data, 305-2, 308-1, 404-3, 401-1), as well as the two relevant documentation, information and explanations (2) specific Temenos’ indicators. we considered necessary as to the selected data > The methodology of materiality assessment, with described in the “Scope” section. The procedures regard to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles. followed with regard to the selected data included: MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY > Read the Annual Report 2018 (in its entirety) to The Temenos Management is responsible for ensure it is in accordance with the guidelines and the preparation and presentation of the selected reporting principles of GRI Standards. sustainability data provided to us, as incorporated > Interview key personnel responsible for the in the Annual Report 2018, as well as for the preparation of the “Operating Responsibly” completeness and accuracy of those data. section of the Annual Report 2018, providing the Furthermore, the Management is responsible for sustainability performance information, in order to maintaining records and adequate internal controls understand and evaluate processes, internal controls that are designed to support the reporting process. and information systems related to the data included in the Report. > Review and assessment of the processes and controls used to collect, aggregate, validate and report the data; > Perform sample-based audits on the collected data, conversion factors and formulas, where required. > Review of the GRI Content Index, as well as the relevant references included therein, against our scope of work. Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 81 Operating responsibly UN Global Compact index The table below describes the location of relevant report content for each of the UN Global Compact’s ten principles. PRINCIPLE DESCRIPTION REPORT SECTION GRI STANDARDS HUMAN RIGHTS 1 Businesses should support and respect the Investing in Our People 412-2 protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 2 Make sure they are not complicit in human rights Investing in Our People 414-1 abuses. LABOR 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of Investing in Our People 102-41 association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and Investing in Our People 409-1 compulsory labor; 5 The effective abolition of child labor; and Investing in Our People 408-1 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of Investing in Our People 102-8, 401-1, 404-1, 404-3, 405-1, 406-1 employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT 7 Businesses should support a precautionary Operating Responsibly 302-1, 305-1, 305-2, 305-3 approach to environmental challenges; 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater Operating Responsibly 302-1, 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 308-1 environmental responsibility; and 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of Operating Responsibly 302-1, 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 308-1 environmentally – friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all Operating Responsibly 102-16, 102-17, 205-2, 205-3 its forms, including extortion and bribery. 82 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements GRI content index This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option The table below describes the location of relevant report content correlating to the Global Reporting Initiative’s GRI Standards. While most information is found in this report, other primary sources include Temenos Business Code of Conduct, Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement and our corporate website: www.temenos.com. EXTERNAL GENERAL DISCLOSURES REFERENCE ASSURANCE ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE GRI 102: 102-1 Name of the organization About Temenos; v General Disclosures p.1 Annual Report: Welcome 2018 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services About Temenos; v p.11 Annual Report: Our Solutions 102-3 Location of headquarters About Temenos; v p.95 Annual Report: Group Structure and Shareholders 102-4 Location of operations p.95 Annual Report: Group Structure and Shareholders; v p. 189 Annual Report: Temenos worldwide offices; p.151 Annual Report: Consolidated Financial Statements: 5. Group Companies 102-5 Ownership and legal form p.95 Annual Report: Group Structure and Shareholders v 102-6 Markets served p.95 Annual Report: Group Structure and Shareholders v 102-7 Scale of the organization About Temenos; About this Report; p.95 Annual Report: v Group Structure and Shareholders; p.189 Annual Report: Temenos worldwide offices; p.151 Annual Report: Consolidated Financial Statements: 5. Group Companies 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Investing in Our People; no seasonal variations v 102-9 Supply chain Responsible Procurement v 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its About Temenos; About this Report; Diversity v supply chain Dashboard; Investing in Our People, p.151 Annual Report: Consolidated Financial Statements: 5. Group Companies; p.95 Annual Report: Group Structure and Shareholders 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach Environmental Responsibility v 102-12 External initiatives Our Endorsements v 102-13 Membership of associations Our Endorsements v Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 83 Operating responsibly GRI content index continued EXTERNAL GENERAL DISCLOSURES continued REFERENCE ASSURANCE STRATEGY GRI 102: 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Message from the CEO v General Disclosures 2018 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY GRI 102: 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms Mission, Vision and Core Values, Ethical Business v General Disclosures of behavior Conduct and Governance 2018 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns Ethical Business Conduct and Governance about ethics GOVERNANCE GRI 102: 102-18 Governance Structure Corporate Governance; CSR and Ethics Governance; v General Disclosures p.94 Annual Report: Corporate Governance 2018 102-19 Delegating Authority Corporate Governance; CSR and Ethics Governance; p.94 Annual Report: Corporate Governance 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, Corporate Governance; CSR and Ethics Governance; environmental and social topics p.94 Annual Report: Corporate Governance 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body Corporate Governance; CSR and Ethics Governance; and its committees p.94 Annual Report: Corporate Governance 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Corporate Governance; CSR and Ethics Governance; p.94 Annual Report: Corporate Governance 102-25 Conflicts of Interest Conflict of Interest and Related Party Transactions 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability About this Report reporting 102-35 Remuneration Policies p. 108 Annual Report: Compensation Report: Compensation Components 102-36 Process for determining remuneration p. 105 Annual Report: Compensation Report: Organization and Competencies 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration p. 106 Annual Report: Compensation Report: Shareholder Engagement STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT GRI 102: 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder Engagement v General Disclosures 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Employee Relations v 2018 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Stakeholder Engagement v 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder Engagement v 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Stakeholder Engagement; Materiality Analysis v REPORTING PRACTICE GRI 102: 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated About this Report v General Disclosures financial statements 2018 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries About this Report; Materiality Analysis v 102-47 List of material topics About this Report; Materiality Analysis v 102-48 Restatements of information About this Report v 102-49 Changes in reporting About this Report v 102-50 Reporting period About this Report v 102-51 Date of most recent report About this Report; March 2018 v 102-52 Reporting cycle About this Report; Annual v 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Contact v 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI GRI content index; Core v Standards 102-55 GRI content index GRI content index; Core v 102-56 GRI External assurance Independent Assurance Report v 84 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements EXTERNAL MATERIAL TOPICS REFERENCE ASSURANCE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its p. 138 Annual Report: Employee Benefits; Management Approach Boundaries p. 157 Annual Report: Employee Benefit Expenses; 2018 p. 168 Annual Report: Retirement Benefit Obligations; Economic Impact; p.154 Annual Report: Consolidated Financial Statements: 7 Segment Information 103-2 The management approach and its components p. 138 Annual Report: Employee Benefits; p. 157 Annual Report: Employee Benefit Expenses; p. 168 Annual Report: Retirement Benefit Obligations; Economic Impact; p.154 Annual Report: Consolidated Financial Statements: 7 Segment Information 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 138 Annual Report: Employee Benefits; p. 157 Annual Report: Employee Benefit Expenses; p. 168 Annual Report: Retirement Benefit Obligations; Economic Impact; p.154 Annual Report: Consolidated Financial Statements: 7 Segment Information GRI 201: 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Economic Impact; p.154 Annual Report: Consolidated v Economic Performance Financial Statements: 7 Segment Information 2018 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other p. 138 Annual Report: Employee Benefits; retirement plans p. 157 Annual Report: Employee Benefit Expenses; p. 168 Annual Report: Retirement Benefit Obligations 201-4 Financial assistance received from government Economic Impact SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND COMMUNITY INVESTMENT GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Community Investment; Responsible Procurement Management Approach Boundaries 2018 103-2 The management approach and its components Community Investment; Responsible Procurement 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Community Investment; Responsible Procurement GRI 203: 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported Community Investment v Indirect Economic Impacts 2018 GRI 204: 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Responsible Procurement Procurement Practices 2018 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 85 Operating responsibly GRI content index continued EXTERNAL MATERIAL TOPICS continued REFERENCE ASSURANCE ETHICAL BUSINESS CONDUCT AND GOVERNANCE GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Anti-Corruption and Bribery; Elimination of Management Approach Boundaries Discrimination and Prevention of Harassment; 2018 Ethical Business Conduct Monitoring and Reporting; Environmental Responsibility 103-2 The management approach and its components Anti-Corruption and Bribery; Elimination of Discrimination and Prevention of Harassment; Ethical Business Conduct Monitoring and Reporting; Environmental Responsibility 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Anti-Corruption and Bribery; Elimination of Discrimination and Prevention of Harassment; Ethical Business Conduct Monitoring and Reporting; Environmental Responsibility GRI 205: 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption Anti-Corruption and Bribery v Anti-Corruption policies and procedures 2018 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions Anti-Corruption and Bribery taken GRI 406: 406-1 Incidents of non-discrimination and corrective Elimination of Discrimination and Prevention of Non-Discrimination actions taken Harassment; Ethical Business Conduct Monitoring 2018 and Reporting GRI 419: 419-1 Non-Compliance with laws and regulations in the Environmental Responsibility Socioeconomic social and economic area Compliance 2018 ENERGY GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Environmental Responsibility Management Approach Boundaries 2018 103-2 The management approach and its components Environmental Responsibility 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Environmental Responsibility GRI 302: 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Environmental Responsibility v Energy 2018 EMISSIONS GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Environmental Responsibility Management Approach Boundaries 2018 103-2 The management approach and its components Environmental Responsibility 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Environmental Responsibility GRI 305: 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Environmental Responsibility Emissions 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Environmental Responsibility v 2018 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Environmental Responsibility RESPONSIBLE PROCUREMENT GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic Responsible Procurement Management Approach and its Boundaries 2018 103-2 The management approach and its components Responsible Procurement 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Responsible Procurement GRI 308: 308-1 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened Responsible Procurement v Supplier Environment using environmental criteria Assessment 2018 GRI 414: 414-1 New Suppliers that were screened using Responsible Procurement Supplier Social Assessment social criteria 2018 86 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements EXTERNAL MATERIAL TOPICS continued REFERENCE ASSURANCE TALENT & DEVELOPMENT GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic Talent and Development Management Approach and its Boundaries 2018 103-2 The management approach and its components Talent and Development 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Talent and Development GRI 404: Training and 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Talent and Development Education 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular Talent and Development v 2018 performance and career development reviews DIVERSITY & INCLUSION GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic Investing in Our People; Diversity Dashboard; Diversity, Management Approach and its Boundaries Inclusion and Equal Opportunity 2018 103-2 The management approach and its components Investing in Our People; Diversity Dashboard; Diversity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunity 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Investing in Our People; Diversity Dashboard; Diversity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunity GRI 401: 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Investing in Our People; Diversity Dashboard v Employment 2018 GRI 405: 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Diversity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunity; Diversity Diversity and Equal Dashboard Opportunity 2018 HUMAN RIGHTS GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic Human Rights; Against Forced and Child Labor; Management Approach and its Boundaries Corporate Policies 2018 103-2 The management approach and its components Human Rights; Against Forced and Child Labor; Corporate Policies 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Human Rights; Against Forced and Child Labor; Corporate Policies GRI 408: 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for Human Rights; Against Forced and Child Labor Child Labor 2018 incidents of child labor GRI 409: 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for Human Rights; Against Forced and Child Labor Forced or Compulsory incidents of forced or compulsory labor Labor 2018 GRI 412: 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies Human Rights; Corporate Policies Human Rights Assessment or procedures 2018 TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION Temenos 1 % of revenue spend on R&D p. 24 Annual Report: R&D v CLIENT FOCUS Temenos 2 Client Satisfaction: improvement by % points annually Focus on Client Engagement v Client Voice: Number of participants annually and Net Focus on Client Engagement v Promoter score Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 87 Governance GOVERNANCE 88 88 Temenos AG Temenos Annual Report AG Annual Report 2018 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements GOVERNANCE Board of Directors 90 Executive Committee 92 Corporate governance 94 Compensation Report 104 Report of the statutory auditor on the Compensation Report 119 Temenos AG Temenos Annual Report AG Annual 2018 Report 2018 89 89 Governance Board of Directors FORWARDLOOKING LEADERSHIP ANDREAS ANDREADES 1 1 2 Executive Chairman Cypriot, born in 1965 Mr. Andreas Andreades joined Temenos in 1999, initially in the position of Chief Financial Officer, before assuming the responsibilities of the Deputy Chief Executive Officer in 2001 and then the Chief Executive’s role from July 2003 until July 2011, when he was appointed Chairman of the Board of Directors. In July 2012 he was appointed Executive Chairman of the Temenos Board of Directors. Since he joined Temenos, the Company has grown from less than 150 employees to more than 5,000 and 3 4 to more than 3,000 clients generating in excess of USD 845 million in annual revenues and achieving a market capitalization of circa USD 10 billion, establishing it as the global leader in banking software. Since 2003 the market capitalization of Temenos has grown by approximately 225 times or a compound average of 40% per annum. Mr. Andreades started his career with KPMG in London in 1988 and then with PepsiCo between 1994 and 1999. Mr. Andreades holds a Master’s engineering degree from the University of Cambridge and is a United Kingdom qualified chartered accountant. 5 6 As Executive Chairman Mr. Andreades supports, advises, counsels and provides guidance to the Executive Committee. He provides guidance and support directly to the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer on a regular basis. He also attends the monthly Product Board where product strategy and funding are decided and execution is monitored. The Chairman is very heavily involved in acquisitions and in key client/prospect relationships that often require the Chief Executive Officer and/ or Chairman’s participation to bring key deals to fruition as well as representing Temenos on key project deliveries through Steering committee representation. He therefore works full time in an executive capacity 7 8 and is jointly responsible together with the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer to the Board of Directors for the development and delivery of the strategic plan and the annual business and financial plan. 90 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements SERGIO GIACOLETTO- 2 IAN COOKSON  4 AMY YIP 7 ROGGIO Independent and Non-Executive Director Independent and Non-Executive Director Swiss, born in 1947 Chinese (Hong Kong), born in 1951 Vice-Chairman Independent and Non-Executive Director Mr. Ian Cookson has been active in the financial Ms. Amy Yip has over 35 years of experience in Swiss, born in 1949 services sector for over 30 years and has built one global financial markets covering different aspects of the most efficient IT operations in Private Banking of the industry. She is currently a Managing Partner Mr. Sergio Giacoletto-Roggio is currently an worldwide. of RAYS Capital Partners Limited, an independent Operating Partner with Advent International, and Non-Executive Director of AIG Hong Kong, an a global private equity firm. Mr. Cookson acted as Chief Operating Officer of Independent Non-Executive Director of Fidelity Funds EFG International and a member of the Executive Board and a member of the Supervisory Board of Mr. Giacoletto-Roggio has served since 2009 in Committee until September 2007, and he was Deutsche Börse AG. multiple public and private company Boards, after previously a member of the Executive Committee of retiring from Oracle Corporation where he had been EFG Bank (since 2002). Prior to this, Mr. Cookson Ms. Yip began her career at the Morgan Guaranty a Company Officer and Executive Vice President for was the Deputy Chief Executive Officer of EFG Bank Trust Company of New York (1978-1985), going on Europe, Middle East and Africa since 2000. He was (1997-2002), Chief Operating Officer of Banque to hold progressively senior appointments at Rothschild most recently Chairman of the Supervisory Board of de Dépôts, Geneva (1991-1997) and the Head of Asset Management (1988-1991) and Citibank Private Oberthur Technologies Group, Paris from April 2013 Management Services of CBI-TDB Union Bancaire Bank (1991-1996). until May 2017. Prior to joining Oracle in 1997, Privée (1986 -1991). Mr. Giacoletto-Roggio was President, Value Added Ms. Yip also served as a Director of Vitagreen, Hong Services for Europe at AT&T. Earlier in his career, Kong (2011-2018) and an Executive Director of Mr. Giacoletto-Roggio spent 20 years with Digital Reserves Management at the Hong Kong Monetary Equipment Corporation in various senior management THIBAULT DE TERSANT 5 Authority from 1996 to 2006, where she was and executive roles in services, sales, marketing and responsible for the investment of the assets of the information management. Independent and Non-Executive Director Exchange Fund of Hong Kong. In 2006, Ms. Yip French, born in 1957 returned to the private sector as the Chief Executive Mr. Giacoletto-Roggio holds a Master Degree in Officer of DBS Bank (Hong Kong) Limited (2006Computer Science from the University of Turin, Italy. Mr. Thibault de Tersant is a member of the Board 2010), where she was concurrently Head of the of Dassault Systèmes and has been executive vice Wealth Management Group at DBS Bank. president and CFO of the company since 1988 GEORGE KOUKIS  3 and Senior EVP since 2006. He was named Senior Ms. Yip was awarded the Bronze Bauhinia Star in executive vice-president and General Secretary in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region in July January 2018. 2000. Ms. Yip holds an MBA from Harvard Business Non-Executive Director School and a BA from Brown University. Greek and Australian, born in 1946 During his tenure in Dassault Systèmes, Mr. de Tersant, who manages an organization in charge of Finance, As founder of Temenos, Mr. George Koukis was Chairman of the Board of Directors until July 2011. Legal, Sales Administration, Pricing, Contracts PETER SPENSER 8 Negotiations, Internal Control and M&A, has conducted more than 80 successful acquisitions Mr. Koukis has been active in the software industry for totaling around USD 5bn. He oversaw Dassault Independent and Non-Executive Director more than 40 years, having begun at Qantas where Systèmes’ successful initial public offering on the British and American, born in 1954 he was heavily involved with the computerization of Paris and Nasdaq stock exchanges in 1996, as the company’s management accounting department. well as a secondary offering in 1997. Mr. de Tersant, Mr. Peter Spenser has over 35 years of experience in He then spent six years with Management Science in his capacity of General Secretary is responsible the financial services sector and technology. America in Australia where he held various for new business models definition, corporate structure management positions, including managing director. and governance, compliance and internal audit. Until June 2016 he was a senior Partner at Mr. Koukis holds a degree in Commerce from the He has more than 30 years of experience in the Deloitte Consulting in the US where in addition to University of Technology in Sydney, Australia and software industry. serving a number of major clients (Global Banks, is a registered Certified Practising Accountant (CPA). Mr. Koukis is currently Chairman of the Board Brokerages and Wealth and Asset Managers), he led Mr. de Tersant is a graduate of the ESSEC Business a number of practice areas including the Investment of Trustees of the Classical Opera, a non-profit School and of the Institut d’Etudes Politiques de Paris. Management practice and also the Global Financial organization based in the United Kingdom and is a Board member in seven private companies operating Services IT and Data Analytics practices. Prior to this he mainly in IT and Green Technologies. was Director of Engineering at AcquiData, Inc. which ERIK HANSEN  6 he co-founded (1985-1990), Director of Software Systems at Magnaflux, Inc. (1982-1985) and a Mr. Koukis is a Fellow of King’s College London and he is also an Adjunct Professor at the University developer/analyst at Logica (1979-1982). Independent and Non-Executive Director of Technology Sydney, Australia. Danish, born in 1952 Mr. Spenser holds a BA and MA in Theoretical Physics from Cambridge University and a Ph.D. in Astrophysics Mr. Erik Hansen is a recognized software industry from University College London. veteran with over 30 years of experience as a senior executive at leading software companies. Mr. Hansen has previously been Chairman of Myriad Group AG (2012-2018) and has served as CEO and Board Member at Day Software (2008-2011) which was acquired by Adobe in 2010. Prior to this, Mr. Hansen held several senior leadership roles at companies including TIBCO Software (2000-2004),Siemens Pyramid Technology Inc. (1997-2000) and Apple (1990-1994), both in Europe and in the United States. Mr. Hansen holds a degree from the business college in Horsens, Denmark. Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 91 Governance Executive Committee EXPERT MANAGEMENT 1 2 MAX CHUARD  1 Chief Executive Officer Swiss, born in 1973 Mr. Max Chuard is Chief Executive Officer of Temenos, the World’s #1 Banking Software Company. Before being named CEO in 2019, Mr. Chuard held various leadership positions at Temenos since joining the Company in 2002. He was Chief Financial Officer of Temenos since 2012, where he had overall responsibility for finance, planning, treasury, information technology, investor relations, compensation and benefits and internal controls. 3 4 In 2015, Mr. Chuard was appointed Chief Operating Officer in addition to his Chief Financial Officer role, and was responsible for go-to-market operations including client management, delivery and driving Temenos’ expansion in the US. Mr. Chuard also led the Company’s mergers and acquisitions strategy, and has conducted more than 10 successful transactions including Akcelerant, Multifonds and Avoka. Mr. Chuard was also instrumental in revolutionizing Temenos’ banking software platform with the launch of two new cloud native, cloud agnostic products – Temenos Infinity and Temenos T24 Transact to accelerate cloud adoption. 5 6 Prior to joining Temenos, Mr. Chuard started his career as a business analyst at JP Morgan and subsequently held a senior position at SWICORP, a Swiss merchant bank. Mr. Chuard holds a Master’s of Science in Finance from the University of Lausanne (HEC Lausanne), Switzerland. 92 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements PANAGIOTIS “TAKIS” 2 ANDRÉ LOUSTAU  3 JEAN-MICHEL HILSENKOPF 5 SPILIOPOULOS  Chief Technology Officer Chief Operating Officer British, born in 1958 French, born in 1963 Chief Financial Officer Greek, born in 1970 Mr. André Loustau has been Chief Technology Officer Mr. Jean-Michel Hilsenkopf was appointed Chief of Temenos since 2001 and has worked with Temenos Operating Officer of Temenos in February 2019. Before being appointed CFO in 2019, Mr. Panagiotis and its predecessor companies since 1984. Mr. Hilsenkopf is one of the original members of “Takis” Spiliopoulos was Head of Research and the Company, having joined in 1993. His deep member of the Investment Banking management team Before that, Mr. Loustau was an application developer understanding of the Company, its culture, and passion at leading Swiss bank Vontobel, where he successfully at Grindlays Bank. Mr. Loustau has held various roles for delivery gives him the vision to drive the regional built the #1 franchise in Swiss equities over the last in development, implementation and sales within strategy forward. ten years, as recognized by Thomson Extel. He has Temenos, prior to assuming the responsibilities of the been advising institutional clients as key opinion leader Chief Technology Officer. During his tenure, Temenos’ Prior to taking up his current role, Mr. Hilsenkopf was on technology investments. Before that, he led the product set has undergone constant and significant the Chief Revenue Officer. He previously held the technology research practice at the same bank and progress, leading to a series of pioneering innovations position of managing director for Temenos in Europe, had the lead on numerous capital market transactions. in the industry including – the first banking systems to Middle East, Africa and Latin American regions, as Before joining Vontobel in 2001, Mr. Spiliopoulos was use a Windows GUI, first real-time, 24x7 banking well as Temenos Cloud, regional general manager for Head of Investments and Member of the Executive system, and the first banking system to be running in Europe. Mr. Hilsenkopf has also successfully integrated Management Board at a venture capital technology the cloud. several acquired companies, such as Odyssey and where he was responsible for due diligence, company Viveo. Before joining Temenos, Mr. Hilsenkopf worked valuation, investment proposal, deal negotiations and as a consultant in the banking sector. setup of deal structure. MARK WINTERBURN  4 Mr. Hilsenkopf holds an MBA in International Before switching to the investment side in 1999, Marketing from the University of Geneva, Switzerland Mr. Spiliopoulos worked as management and as well as a Masters’ degree in Computer Engineering Chief Product Officer technology consultant for leading international players, from the Polytech of Clermont-Ferrand, France. British, born in 1960 among others Accenture (formerly Andersen Consulting, where he started his career in 1995), advising financial Mr. Mark Winterburn has been responsible for the institutions on strategy and information technology matters, including the implementation of new processes product organization since joining in 2011. ALEXA GUENOUN  6 and applications. Mr. Winterburn has over 40 years’ experience in IT, over 30 of them in financial services. Prior to joining Chief Client Officer Mr. Spiliopoulos holds a Master’s Degree in Computer Temenos, Mr. Winterburn held the position of VP French, born in 1972 Science and Business Economics from the Swiss Federal Solutions Management & Product Development at Institute of Technology (ETH Zürich), Switzerland. Misys, and held a number of senior positions at Ms. Alexa Guenoun has been the Chief Client Officer He also holds an Executive MBA and a degree Lloyds TSB, with a proven track record of driving at Temenos since 2017 and has responsibility for in financial analysis (CEFA/EFFAS). large and complex IT change programmes. Services, Partners and Support globally. Ms. Guenoun was appointed as a member of the Executive He has studied Leadership, Product, Cultural and Committee in February 2019. Ms. Guenoun joined Change Management at Harvard Business School, Temenos in 2006 and has held a number of key Cranfield University and Henley Management School. roles within sales and business development including Mr. Winterburn studied a Software Engineering most recently her role as Regional Director for French diploma at Coventry University, England. speaking territories. Ms. Guenoun has over 20 years of experience in global banking technology having worked in Luxembourg, Hong Kong, Singapore and New York. Prior to joining Temenos, she held a number of positions at Misys including Head of Regional Business Development for APAC. Ms. Guenoun holds a Bachelor’s Degree in Marketing and Finance from the American BBA INSEEC in Paris. Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 93 Governance Corporate governance GOVERNING THE GROUP OUR GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS MAIN RESPONSIBILITIES: > Approves the annual financial statements; > Elects the members of the Board of Directors and of the Compensation Committee; > Approves the compensation of the members of the Board of Directors and of the Executive Committee; and > Adopts and amends the Articles of Association. BOARD OF DIRECTORS MAIN RESPONSIBILITIES: > Chaired by the Executive Chairman whose role is defined on page 99; > Approves the strategy of the Group; > Appoints and oversees the members of the Executive Committee; and > Approves acquisitions and major investments. CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER MAIN RESPONSIBILITIES: > Is responsible for managing the day-to-day business of the Group; and > Chairs the Executive Committee. EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MAIN RESPONSIBILITIES: > Develops the three year strategic plan of the Group and monitors performance against it; > Submits to the Board of Directors proposed acquisitions, divestments and product capex investments; and > Deals with any other matters as assigned by the Board of Directors. COMPENSATION COMMITTEE AUDIT COMMITTEE NOMINATION COMMITTEE MAIN RESPONSIBILITIES: MAIN RESPONSIBILITIES: MAIN RESPONSIBILITIES: > Recommends to the Board of Directors compensation > Reviews and challenges where necessary, the actions > Reviews the structure, size and composition of the practices and policies that are equitable, and judgments of management, in relation to the Board of Directors; performance based and in line with market norms; financial statements; > Establishes the qualification criteria for Board of > Reviews the competitiveness of the executive > Reviews the internal controls environment and risk Directors membership; compensation programs; management framework; > Reviews and proposes to the Board of Directors > Submits to the Board of Directors proposals for > Monitors the performance and effectiveness of the candidates to be recommended for election; and approval by the Annual General Meeting of internal audit function; and > Considers succession planning for both Board of Shareholders of the total compensation of the > Reviews the findings of the external audit reports and Directors and Executive Committee members. Board of Directors and of the Executive Committee monitors their implementation. members; and > Prepares the Compensation Report to be submitted to the Board of Directors for approval. 94 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements INTRODUCTION 1. GROUP STRUCTURE AND SHAREHOLDERS This report has been prepared in compliance with the Directive on Information 1.1 Group structure Relating to Corporate Governance as at 1 May 2018 (DCG) available at The ultimate holding company, Temenos AG, is registered in Geneva, where the https://www.six-exchange-regulation.com/dam/downloads/regulation/ Group is also headquartered. admission-manual/directives/06_16-DCG_en.pdf, its Guidelines available at https://www.six-exchange-regulation.com/dam/downloads/publication/ 1.1.1 The Temenos Group is organized and managed by the Chief Executive obligations/guidelines/guideline-dcg-en.pdf and with the Ordinance against Officer who is heading and supported by the Executive Committee. Excessive Remuneration in Listed Companies limited by Shares as at 1 January 2014 (OaEC) available at https://www.admin.ch/opc/fr/classifiedAs of the publication date of this Annual Report, the Executive Committee is compilation/20132519/index.html. composed of the following members: In the present Annual Report, the corporate governance information has been summarized in a separate section, whereas references to other parts of the Annual MAX CHUARD Report have been included in an effort to avoid duplication. Chief Executive Officer In order to enhance readability, the present corporate governance section follows the suggested structure as described in the annex of the DCG. PANAGIOTIS “TAKIS” There are some references to the Articles of Association and to the Organization MARK WINTERBURN SPILIOPOULOS bylaws of the Company; both documents are available at http://www.temenos. Chief Product Officer com/en/about-temenos/investor-relations/corporate-governance/. Chief Financial Officer Unless otherwise indicated, the information provided in this report reflects the situation as of 31 December 2018. JEAN-MICHEL ANDRÉ LOUSTAU Temenos AG (formerly named Temenos Group AG) is hereinafter referred to as HILSENKOPF ‘the Company’. Chief Technology Officer Chief Operating Officer Temenos AG and its affiliated companies are hereinafter referred to as ‘Temenos Group’, ‘Temenos’ or ‘the Group’. The executive management of the Group is hereinafter referred to as ALEXA GUENOUN ‘the Executive Committee’. Chief Client Officer GOVERNANCE DASHBOARD The Group is managed using a matrix of regional and global business functions EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN incorporating activities of sales, service operations, product development, product REMUNERATION MIX management, services management, marketing, key client relationship management and product support functions. Fixed fee/salary 10% Other compensation 7% The Group’s product sales and services operations are divided into five main Variable short term incentives 11% geographic regions: LTIP earned 24% LTIP not yet earned 48% >> Europe; Read more on > 112 >> Middle East and Africa; Total compensation at risk 83% >> Asia Pacific; >> North America; and EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE >> Latin America and Caribbean. REMUNERATION MIX Fixed salary 12% Temenos being a truly global multi-product company leverages skills from around Other compensation 2% the world, having its principal software development facilities in Chennai and Variable short term incentives 14% Bangalore (India). The Group has additional software development facilities in LTIP earned 24% the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, Switzerland, France, Romania, LTIP not yet earned 48% Belgium, Luxembourg, Australia and China. Read more on > 113 Total compensation at risk 86% 1.1.2 Temenos AG is the sole listed company of the Group. MEETINGS HELD IN 2018 Name Temenos AG Board of Directors 8 Domicile 2 Rue de l’Ecole-de-Chimie Audit Committee 4 1205 Geneva, Switzerland Compensation Committee 3 Listed at SIX Swiss Exchange Nomination Committee 1 First listing date 26 June 2001 Market capitalization CHF 8,376,119,079* Security Number 1245391 ISIN number CH0012453913 Symbol TEMN Reuters TEMN.S Bloomberg TEMN SW * Based on the issued share capital as of 31.12.2018 composed of 71,044,267 shares. Please refer to the Information for Investors’ section on page 188 for statistics on Temenos shares. Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 95 Governance Corporate governance continued 1.1 Group structure continued 1.1.3 Please find below the main non-listed companies belonging to the Group as of 31.12.2018: (All companies are directly or indirectly wholly owned subsidiaries of Temenos AG, unless otherwise indicated. A complete list of all companies belonging to the Group is available in the note 5 to the consolidated financial statements.) NAME DOMICILE COUNTRY OF INCORPORATION SHARE CAPITAL Avoka (Germany) GmbH Frankfurt am Main Germany 25,000 EUR Avoka (USA), Inc. Broomfield USA 0.1 USD Avoka Europe Limited London United Kingdom 1 GBP Avoka Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong Hong Kong 1,000 HKD Avoka Technologies Pty Limited Manly Australia 43,561,356.50 AUD Avoka Technologies Canada Inc. Vancouver Canada 100 shares (no par value) Edge IPK Limited London United Kingdom 2,764 GBP Fairs Limited London United Kingdom 50,000 GBP Financial Objects (UK) Limited London United Kingdom 466,667 GBP Financial Objects Limited London United Kingdom 950,528 GBP Genisys Technology Limited London United Kingdom 51,505 GBP Igefi Deutschland GmbH Frankfurt am Main Germany 100,000 EUR Igefi France Sàrl Paris France 7,500 EUR Igefi Group Sàrl Strassen Luxembourg 31,000 EUR Igefi Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong Hong Kong 1,000 HKD Igefi Ireland Limited Dublin Ireland 100 EUR Igefi Singapore Pte Limited Singapore Singapore 20,000 SGD Igefi UK Limited London United Kingdom 5,000 GBP Igefi US LLC Boston USA 100 USD Odyssey Financial Technologies GmbH Frankfurt am Main Germany 25,000 EUR Odyssey Financial Technologies PLC London United Kingdom 50,000 GBP Odyssey Financial Technologies SA La Hulpe Belgium 62,000 EUR Odyssey Group SA Bertrange Luxembourg 21,904,670 EUR Rubik ESOP Trusco Pty Limited Sydney Australia 100 AUD Rubik IP Holdings Pty Limited Sydney Australia 100 AUD Rubik Mortgages Pty Limited Sydney Australia 100 AUD Stargate Information Systems Pty Limited Sydney Australia 261 AUD Temenos (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd Shah Alam Malaysia 500,000 MYR Temenos (NL) BV Amsterdam Netherlands 18,152 EUR Temenos (Thailand) Co. Limited Bangkok Thailand 100,000,000 THB Temenos Africa (Pty) Limited Sandton South Africa 100 ZAR Temenos Australia Pty Limited Sydney Australia 2 AUD Temenos Australia Financial Pty Limited Sydney Australia 85,977,680 AUD Temenos Australia Messaging Pty Limited Sydney Australia 100 AUD Temenos Australia Operations Pty Limited Sydney Australia 7,500,181 AUD Temenos Australia Services Pty Limited Sydney Australia 100 AUD Temenos Australia Technology Solutions Pty Limited Sydney Australia 1 AUD Temenos Belgium SA La Hulpe Belgium 200,000 EUR Temenos Bulgaria EOOD Sofia Bulgaria 10,000 BGN Temenos Canada Inc. Vancouver Canada 560,586 shares (no par value) Temenos Cloud Americas LLC Wilmington USA No par value Temenos Cloud Switzerland SA Geneva Switzerland 100,000 CHF Temenos Denmark ApS Copenhagen Denmark 50,000 DKK Temenos Deutschland GmbH Frankfurt am Main Germany 25,000 EUR Temenos East Africa Limited Nairobi Kenya 10,000 KES Temenos Ecuador SA Quito Ecuador 672,000 USD Temenos Egypt LLC Cairo Egypt 200 EGP Temenos Finance Luxembourg Sàrl Bertrange Luxembourg 37,500 EUR Temenos France SAS Paris France 500,000 EUR Temenos Headquarters SA Geneva Switzerland 100,000 CHF Temenos Hellas SA Athens Greece 105,000 EUR Temenos Hispania SL Madrid Spain 10,000 EUR Temenos Holdings France SAS Paris France 28,010,000 EUR Temenos Holdings Limited Road Town British Virgin Islands 40,105 USD Temenos Holland BV Amsterdam Netherlands 19,000 EUR Temenos Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong Hong Kong 2 HKD Temenos India Private Limited Chennai India 2,962,000 INR Temenos Investments BV Amsterdam Netherlands 18,000 EUR Temenos Israel Limited Ramat Gan Israel 100 NIS Temenos Japan KK Tokyo Japan 10,000,000 JPY Temenos Kazakhstan LLP Almaty Kazakhstan 14,400,000 KZT Temenos Korea Limited Seoul Republic of Korea 50,000,000 KRW Temenos Luxembourg SA Bertrange Luxembourg 1,181,250 EUR Temenos Mexico SA de CV Mexico City Mexico 10,760,900 MXN Temenos Middle East Limited Nicosia Cyprus 17,100 EUR 96 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Temenos North Africa LLC Casablanca Morocco 10,000 MAD Temenos Philippines, Inc. Makati City Philippines 10,000,000 PHP Temenos Polska Sp. Zo.o Warsaw Poland 100,000 PLN Temenos Romania SRL Bucharest Romania 120,000 RON Temenos Singapore Pte Limited Singapore Singapore 65,010,000 SGD Temenos Singapore FT Pte Limited Singapore Singapore 1 SGD Temenos Software Brasil Limitada Sao Paulo Brazil 150,000 BRL Temenos Software Luxembourg SA Bertrange Luxembourg 29,500,000 EUR Temenos Software Shanghai Co. Limited Shanghai China 140,000 USD Temenos Solutions Australia Pty Limited Sydney Australia 439,195,301 AUD Temenos Systems Ireland Limited Dublin Ireland 4 EUR Temenos UK Limited London United Kingdom 2,198,844 GBP Temenos USA, Inc. Wilmington USA 1 USD Temenos Vietnam Company Limited Hanoi Vietnam 890,000,000 VND TriNovus Systems LLC Lubbock USA 1,741,651.85 USD Viveo France SAS Paris France 5,300,000 EUR Viveo Group SAS Paris France 16,248,900 EUR Wealth Management Systems Limited London United Kingdom 525,000 GBP 1.2 Significant shareholders Please find below the list of shareholders who hold more than 3% of the voting rights as of 31 December 2018 as per information that has been published on the reporting and publication platform of the Disclosure Office of SIX Swiss Exchange pursuant to Art. 120 ff. of the Financial Market Infrastructure Act. Beneficial owner Number of voting rights Percentage of share capital Martin and Rosmarie Ebner 7,695,000 10.83% The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 7,105,217 10.00% BlackRock, Inc.1 3,833,868 5.40% Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company2 3,554,954 5.00% Artisan Partners Limited3 2,180,153 3.07% Harding Loevner LP 2,147,681 3.02% (1) Out of this number, 562,758 voting rights are delegated by a third party and can be exercised at one’s own discretion. (2) Out of this number, 135,888 voting rights are delegated by a third party and can be exercised at one’s own discretion. (3) Out of this number, 2,180,153 voting rights are delegated by a third party and can be exercised at one’s own discretion. Based on the registered capital as of 31.12.2018 composed of 71,044,267 shares. For more recent information on major shareholders, please refer to page 188. Disclosure notifications made in accordance with Article 120 ff. of the Financial Market Infrastructure Act are publicly available on the SIX website at https://www.six-exchange-regulation.com/en/home/publications/significant-shareholders.html?companyId=TEMENOS. 1.3 Cross-shareholdings There are no cross-shareholdings to report. 2. CAPITAL STRUCTURE 2.1 Capital On 31 December 2018, the registered ordinary share capital amounted to CHF 355,221,335 consisting of 71,044,267 registered shares, each with a par value of CHF 5. All the shares are fully paid-up. Each recorded share with voting rights entitles its holder to one vote. The Company has an authorized capital totaling CHF 69,500,000 and a conditional capital totaling CHF 34,028,285 for shares that may be issued on the exercising of share options granted to employees of the Group. Additional conditional capital totaling CHF 33,039,520 exists for shares that may be issued in conjunction with financial instruments. 2.2 Authorized and Conditional capital Authorized capital Pursuant to the Articles of Association (Article 3ter), the Board of Directors is authorized to increase the share capital by 10 May 2019, by an amount not exceeding CHF 69,500,000 by issuing up to 13,900,000 fully paid-in registered shares with a nominal value of CHF 5 each. An increase in partial amounts is permitted. The Board of Directors shall determine the date of issue of such new shares, the issue price, type of payment, conditions of exercising pre-emptive rights, and the beginning of the dividend entitlement. The Board of Directors may issue new shares by means of a firm underwriting by a banking institution or syndicate with subsequent offer of those shares. The Board of Directors may allow the expiry of pre-emptive rights which have not been exercised or it may place these rights as well as shares, the pre-emptive rights for which have not been exercised, at market conditions. The Board of Directors is authorized to restrict or withdraw the pre-emptive rights and rights of advance subscription of existing shareholders and allocate them to third parties if (i) the shares are to be used for the take-over of another company or enterprise, of parts of an enterprise or of participations or for the financing of such transactions; or if (ii) the shares are to be used for the purpose of expanding the scope of shareholders in connection with the quotation of shares on national and foreign stock exchanges. Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 97 Governance Corporate governance continued 2.2 Authorized and Conditional capital continued 2.3 Changes in capital Conditional capital for employee participation Pursuant to the Articles of Association (Article 3 quarter (1)), the share capital may 31.12.18 31.12.17 31.12.16 be increased by an amount not exceeding CHF 34,028,285 by issuing up to CHF 000 CHF 000 CHF 000 6,805,657 new registered shares to be fully paid-in with a nominal value of CHF 5 each through the exercise of the rights that the direct or indirect subsidiaries of the Ordinary issued share capital 355,221 354,250 348,106 Company (the ‘Subsidiaries’) or the Company itself may grant to officers, Directors Conditional share capital 67,068 47,767 53,911 and employees at all levels of the Company and the Subsidiaries. The pre-emptive Authorized share capital 69,500 69,500 69,500 rights as well as the right for advance subscription of existing shareholders are precluded. As at 31 December 2013, the registered share capital amounted to The issue of shares or respective option rights through the Subsidiaries or through CHF 360,115,740 consisting of 72,023,148 registered shares, each with a par the Company to officers, Directors and employees of the Company and the value of CHF 5. Further to the decision of the General Meeting of Shareholders Subsidiaries, is subject to one or more regulations to be issued by the Board of held on 28 May 2014, the capital was reduced by cancellation of 2,134,786 Directors on the basis of the following general rules: (i) new shares may only be shares repurchased under a share buyback program. issued to the Subsidiaries or to the Company for purposes of distribution to Directors, officers or employees of the Company and the Subsidiaries; (ii) new shares to As at 31 December 2014, the registered share capital amounted to be issued through the Subsidiaries or through the Company to employees of the CHF 349,441,810 consisting of 69,888,362 registered shares, each with a par Company or the Subsidiaries shall be issued against paying-in the nominal value of value of CHF 5. Further to the decision of the General Meeting of Shareholders CHF 5 per each share in cash. held on 6 May 2015, the capital was reduced by cancellation of 3,270,794 shares repurchased under a share buyback program. Conditional capital for financial instruments Pursuant to the Articles of Association (Article 3 quarter (2)), the share capital As at 31 December 2015, the registered share capital amounted to may be increased by an amount not exceeding CHF 33,039,520, by issuing up CHF 333,087,840 consisting of 66,617,568 registered shares, each with a par to 6,607,904 new registered shares to be fully paid-in with a nominal value of value of CHF 5. CHF 5 each, to be divided as follows: first, for the amount of CHF 8,386,120, that corresponds to 1,677,224 new registered shares, through exercise of As at 31 December 2016, the registered share capital amounted to conversion and/or option rights, which are granted in connection with bonds or CHF 333,087,840 consisting of 66,617,568 registered shares, each with a par similar obligations or other financial instruments of the Company or one of its group value of CHF 5. No change of capital occurred during 2016. companies; and second, for the amount of CHF 24,653,400, that corresponds to 4,930,680 new registered shares, by the exercise of option rights which are granted On 15 February 2017, the registered share capital was increased to by the Company or one of its group companies to existing shareholders or third CHF 348,105,620 consisting of 69,621,124 registered shares, each with a par parties. In the case of the issuance of bonds, similar obligations, or other financial value of CHF 5, further to the registration of 3,003,556 shares that were created out instruments linked with conversion and/or option rights, and in the case of the of conditional capital during 2016 (for Employee Share Option Schemes). issuance of option rights, the pre-emptive rights of shareholders are excluded. The owners of conversion or option rights from time to time are entitled to the new shares. As at 31 December 2017, the registered share capital amounted to CHF 354,249,620 consisting of 70,849,924 registered shares, each with a par The conditions of the option rights, including the exercise period and exercise price, value of CHF 5 further to the registration on 19 October 2017 of 1,228,800 shares are to be determined by the Board of Directors, whereby the exercise price may be that were created out of conditional capital during 2017 (for Employee Share fixed at a price lower than the market or intrinsic value. Option Schemes). The Board of Directors shall be authorized to restrict or exclude the advance As at 31 December 2018, the registered share capital amounted to subscription rights of shareholders: (1) if debt issues in connection with conversion CHF 355,221,335 consisting of 71,044,267 registered shares, each with a par rights or warrants or other financial instruments or options issues are for the purpose value of CHF 5 further to the registration on 17 October 2018 of 194,343 shares of financing or refinancing the acquisition of an enterprise, parts of an enterprise, or that were created out of conditional capital during 2018 (for Employee Share participations or new investments; or (2) if such debt or other financial instruments Option Schemes). or options are issued on the international capital markets and for the purpose of a firm underwriting by a banking institution or a consortium of banks with a subsequent 2.4 Shares and participation certificates offering to the public; or (3) if such debt or other financial market instruments or All equity securities of Temenos are in the form of registered shares, each with a options are issued for the purpose of the participation of strategic Partners. In such par value of CHF 5. Each share confers the right to one vote at the Annual General cases, the following shall apply: the terms and conditions of the convertible bonds Meeting of Shareholders and all shares are fully entitled to receive dividends. or warrants or other financial instruments or options shall correspond to market The Articles of Association do not provide for privileged voting rights shares. The conditions (including dilution protection provisions in accordance with market Company does not issue participation certificates. practice), taking into account the specific situation, and the new shares shall be issued pursuant to the relevant conversion or exercise rights in connection with bond In compliance with Temenos policy to distribute a sustainable to growing dividend or warrant or options issuance conditions. Conversion rights may be exercised during and taking into account the growing maturity of the Group and the strength of future a maximum ten (10)-year period, and warrants or options may be exercised during cash flows, the Company intends to pay an annual dividend of CHF 0.75 per share a maximum seven (7)-year period, in each case from the date of the respective on 21 May 2019, subject to shareholders’ approval at the Annual General Meeting issuance. of Shareholders on 15 May 2019. The dividend record date will be set on 20 May 2019 with the shares trading ex-dividend on 17 May 2019. Like in the past years, the 2018 dividend will be paid as a distribution of reserve from capital contributions and therefore be exempted of withholding tax (share premium dividend). 98 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements 2.5 Dividend-right certificates 3.3 Rules in the Articles of Association on the number of permitted activities The Company does not issue profit sharing certificates. pursuant to Art. 12 para. 1 point 1 OaEC. According to Article 29 of the Articles of Association, no member of the Board of 2.6 Limitations on transferability and nominee registrations Directors may hold more than four additional mandates in listed companies and ten There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares. additional mandates in non-listed companies. 2.7 Convertible bonds and options The following mandates are not subject to these limitations: Regarding options please refer to note 26 of the consolidated financial statements. a. mandates in companies which are controlled by the Company or which control In April 2013, the Company issued a senior unsecured bond with a nominal value the Company; of CHF 100 million and a coupon rate of 2.75% paid annually on 25 July. The bond b. mandates held at the request of the Company or any companies controlled by it. was repaid on 25 July 2017 at a redemption price of 100% of the principal amount. No member of the Board of Directors or of the executive management shall hold more than ten of such mandates; and In March 2014, the Company issued a senior unsecured bond with a nominal value c. mandates in associations, charitable organizations, foundations, trusts and of CHF 100 million and a coupon rate of 2.00% paid annually on 31 January. employee welfare foundations. No member of the Board of Directors or executive The bond will mature on 31 January 2019 at a redemption price of 100% of the management shall hold more than ten of such mandates. principal amount. ‘mandates’ shall mean mandates in the supreme governing body of a legal entity In May 2015, the Company issued a senior unsecured bond with a nominal value which is required to be registered in the commercial register or a comparable of CHF 175 million and a coupon rate of 2.00% paid annually on 17 June. The foreign register. Mandates in different legal entities that are under joint control are bond will mature on 17 June 2022 at a redemption price of 100% of the principal deemed one mandate. amount. All members of the Board of Directors comply with these provisions. In April 2017, the Company issued a senior unsecured bond with a nominal value of CHF 150 million and a coupon rate of 1.75% paid annually on 5 April. The bond 3.4 Elections and terms of office will mature on 5 April 2024 at a redemption price of 100% of the principal amount. Name First elected In November 2018, the Company issued a senior unsecured bond with a Andreas Andreades 2001 nominal value of CHF 175 million and a coupon rate of 1.875% paid annually on Sergio Giacoletto-Roggio 2012 30 November. The bond will mature on 30 November 2023 at a redemption price George Koukis 2001 of 100% of the principal amount. Ian Cookson 2012 Thibault de Tersant 2012 3. BOARD OF DIRECTORS Erik Hansen 2013 3.1 Members of the Board of Directors Amy Yip 2014 As at 31 December 2018, the Board of Directors comprised the following members: Peter Spenser 2017 Name Position 3.5 Internal organizational structure Andreas Andreades Executive Chairman 3.5.1 Allocation of tasks within the Board of Directors Sergio Giacoletto-Roggio Vice-Chairman, Independent and The Board of Directors shall elect a Vice-Chairman from amongst its members and a Non-Executive Director secretary. It may also appoint one or more committees from amongst its members. George Koukis Non-Executive Director, Temenos founder Ian Cookson Independent and Non-Executive Director Executive Chairman Thibault de Tersant Independent and Non-Executive Director The Executive Chairman is responsible for preparing and convening the meetings of Erik Hansen Independent and Non-Executive Director the Board of Directors as well as for the implementation of the Board resolutions. In Amy Yip Independent and Non-Executive Director case of his absence, the Vice-Chairman shall call the Board meetings. The Executive Peter Spenser Independent and Non-Executive Director Chairman monitors the preparation of the General Meeting of Shareholders. Please refer to pages 90 and 91 for their biographies. Temenos is a typical software company where product, technology vision and deep market knowledge are instrumental in the success of the Company and it is common Except George Koukis who was Executive Chairman of Temenos until July 2011, to have executive chairmen structures where founders/near founders have a critical none of the non-executive members of the Board of Directors has or has had role to play in the running of the Company. It is of paramount importance that any senior management position within the Group, nor any significant business Temenos retains the vision that has established it as a leader in its industry. connections with the Group. The Executive Chairman attends the Product Board and some of the Executive 3.2 Other activities and vested interests Committee meetings. He therefore works full time in an executive capacity and is Except those mentioned in the biographies section of this Annual Report, no member jointly responsible for the delivery of the strategic plan and financial results. of the Board of Directors has any: Taking into account his deep understanding of the market, his previous Chief >> Activities in governing and supervisory bodies of important Swiss and foreign Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer roles within the Group, the Executive organizations, institutions and foundations under private and public law; Chairman’s input and significant value add are key and instrumental for the other >> Permanent management and consultancy functions for important Swiss and members of the Board of Directors and for the Executive Committee members, foreign interest groups; or especially on all strategic matters. >> Official functions and political posts. Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 99 Governance Corporate governance continued 3.5 Internal organizational structure continued Nomination Committee 3.5.1 Allocation of tasks within the Board of Directors continued The main duties of the Nomination Committee are: (i) to annually review the structure, Vice-Chairman size and composition of the Board of Directors and make recommendations to the In case the Executive Chairman is unavailable or absent, the Vice-Chairman Board of Directors with regard to any changes, (ii) to establish qualification criteria calls meetings of the Board of Directors; also, in case the Executive Chairman is for Board of Directors’ membership and (iii) to give full consideration to succession unavailable or absent, the Vice-Chairman chairs meetings of the Board of Directors. planning for both members of the Board of Directors and Executive Committee. The Vice-Chairman has the authority to call meetings reserved exclusively for independent Directors to allow them to discuss certain issues outside full Board of 3.5.3 Working methods of the Board of Directors and its Committees Directors meetings. The agenda of such meetings are set by the Vice-Chairman. The Board of Directors meets as often as business requires, but at least four times a year. The Audit Committee meets at least twice a year. The Compensation and The Vice-Chairman serves as liaison between the Independent Directors, the Nomination Committees meet at least once a year. Executive Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer. The Vice-Chairman acts as the preferred contact for the other Independent Directors. In 2018, the following meetings were held: The Vice-Chairman makes himself available to hear the shareholders’ comments Number of Average and suggestions and, where possible, answers their questions after consulting with meetings Attendance duration the Executive Chairman. Board of Directors 8 92% 2h30 In 2018, the Vice-Chairman acted as Lead Independent Director. Audit Committee 4 100% 3h Compensation Committee 3 100% 1h30 3.5.2 Members list, tasks and area of responsibility for each Committee Nomination Committee 1 75% 1h of the Board of Directors The Audit, Compensation and Nomination Committees are governed by terms All physical meetings were held at Temenos offices in Geneva. of reference defining their duties and compositions which are available at https://www.temenos.com/en/about-temenos/investor-relations/corporateBoth the external and internal auditors attended all the Audit Committee meetings governance/. These Committees are composed mainly of Independent and Nonin 2018. Executive Directors. These Committees report regularly and make recommendations to the Board of Directors which is empowered to make decisions. At the meetings of the Board of Directors and of its Committees, those members of the Executive Committee who have the relevant information and expertise required Name Audit Compensation Nomination for the respective body to perform its duties are present. However these persons do Committee Committee Committee not take part in any resolutions. Andreas Andreades Member At each Board of Directors’ meeting, a business report is presented by the Chief Sergio Giacoletto-Roggio Member Chairman Member Executive Officer. Together with the financial report presented by the Chief Financial George Koukis Officer, this information enables the Board members to assess the course of the Ian Cookson Member Member Chairman Company’s business activities on a regular basis. Thibault de Tersant Chairman Erik Hansen Member The Board of Directors conducts an annual evaluation of its performance. Such Amy Yip Member Member process is carried out by way of an anonymous self-evaluation questionnaire on the Peter Spenser Member performance and effectiveness of the Board of Directors to be completed by each of its member. The results and comments are consolidated by the Company Secretary Audit Committee and then discussed at the next meeting during which proposed improvements are The Audit Committee is composed of four members, each of whom being agreed. The 2018 evaluation results were discussed at the meeting held in July independent and holding relevant financial expertise and understanding of the 2018 where it was concluded that the Board of Directors operates effectively. IFRS accounting standards. The Audit Committee reviews the Group’s financial reports, internal controls, compliance with corporate governance rules and any other 3.6 Definition of areas of responsibility matters that may be brought to its attention by the internal and/or external auditors. The Board of Directors is the ultimate governing body of the Company. Together The Chairman of the Audit Committee regularly reports to the Board of Directors on with its Committees, it exercises inalienable and non-transferable functions as the Audit Committee’s findings and recommendations; the Board of Directors being provided by law, by the Company’s Articles of Association and by its bylaws. ultimately responsible to approve the annual financial statements. Please also refer to The Board of Directors decides in particular on significant acquisitions, disposals, paragraph 8.4 below. strategic alliances, changes in the Group’s structure and share repurchase programs though its responsibilities are not limited to this. Compensation Committee The Compensation Committee shall support the Board of Directors in reviewing and Based on Article 17 of the Articles of Association and Article 3.5 of the bylaws of making recommendations on compensation practices, guidelines and procedures the Company, the Board of Directors has delegated the day-to-day operational and in preparing the proposals to the General Meeting of Shareholders regarding management and conduct of business operations of the Company to the Chief compensation of the members of the Board of Directors and of the Executive Executive Officer who is heading and supported by the Executive Committee, except Committee. It may submit proposals and recommendations to the Board of Directors where the law or the Articles of Association provide differently. in other compensation-related issues. The Executive Committee is responsible for execution of strategy and monitoring For more details on the role of the Compensation Committee please refer to its terms performance against it. The Executive Committee also sets targets for Group organic of reference at https://www.temenos.com/en/about-temenos/investor-relations/ and acquisitions growth on a three year basis i.e. strategic plan to be then formally corporate-governance/ and to the Compensation Report on page 104. approved by the Board of Directors. Finally, the Executive Committee approves all product investments as well as acquisitions to be proposed to the Board of Directors. 100 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements 3.7 Information and control instruments vis-à-vis the Executive Committee 4.2 Other activities and vested interests The Board of Directors is responsible for the Group’s risk management, security and Except those mentioned in the biographies section on pages 92 and 93, no member system of internal controls. Overseeing the risk management process, effectiveness of the Executive Committee has any: and efficiency of operations, accurate reporting, compliance with laws and regulations and safeguarding the interests of the Group are some of the main >> Activities in governing and supervisory bodies of important Swiss and foreign responsibilities of the Board of Directors. organizations, institutions and foundations under private and public law; >> Permanent management and consultancy functions for important Swiss and Prior to each meeting, members of the Board of Directors receive reports that allow foreign interest groups; or them to discharge their above duties. >> Official functions and political posts. The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer personally report at each 4.3 Rules in the Articles of Association on the number of permitted activities meeting of the Board of Directors. pursuant to Art. 12 para. 1 point 1 OaEC. According to Article 29 of the Articles of Association, no member of the executive The performance management process ensures that Company’s targets, as agreed management may hold more than one additional mandate in a listed company and with the Board of Directors, are delegated to senior management during the first five additional mandates in non-listed companies. quarter of every financial year. The following mandates are not subject to these limitations: The Internal Audit function provides an independent assurance on effectiveness of internal controls. This function’s independent status is assured by the fact that the a. mandates in companies which are controlled by the Company or which control Head of Internal Audit reports functionally to the Chairman of the Audit Committee. the Company; b. mandates held at the request of the Company or any companies controlled by it. Findings and related action plans from internal audit reviews and/or internal control No member of the Board of Directors or of the executive management shall hold self-assessments are reported to senior management; summary reports are provided more than ten of such mandates; and to the Audit Committee at every meeting. Implementation of action plans is monitored c. mandates in associations, charitable organizations, foundations, trusts and on a monthly basis and status is reported to the Audit Committee. employee welfare foundations. No member of the Board of Directors or executive management shall hold more than ten of such mandates. Risk management is an integral part of the business process. Key risks are reviewed by the Audit Committee and then by the Board of Directors itself. ‘mandates’ shall mean mandates in the supreme governing body of a legal entity which is required to be registered in the commercial register or a comparable The organizational structure ensures that specialized functions such as Quality, foreign register. Mandates in different legal entities that are under joint control are Security and IT continuously support the management of risks. deemed one mandate. 4. EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE All members of the Executive Committee comply with these provisions. 4.1 Members of the Executive Committee As at 31 December 2018, the Executive Committee comprised the following 4.4 Management contracts members: No management tasks have been delegated to third parties. Name Position 5. COMPENSATION, SHAREHOLDINGS AND LOANS 5.1 Content and method of determining the compensation and the shareholding David Arnott Chief Executive Officer programs Max Chuard Chief Financial Officer/ The executive management compensation plans seek to align executive Chief Operating Officer management and shareholders’ interests by making a significant portion of Andre Loustau Chief Technology Officer compensation depend on achieving increased shareholder value for the long term Mark Winterburn Chief Product Officer and to enforce a performance-orientated environment that rewards superior value Jean-Michel Hilsenkopf¹ Chief Revenue Officer creation and the achievement of outstanding results. ( 1) Mr. Hilsenkopf was appointed as a member of the Executive Committee (Chief Revenue Compensation of the non-executive members of the Board of Directors comprises Officer) effective 12 January 2018. fixed compensation only. Mr. David Arnott resigned as Chief Executive Officer effective 28 February 2019. The executive members of the Board of Directors and the executive management may be paid fixed and variable compensation. Variable compensation is dependent Mr. Max Chuard was appointed as Chief Executive Officer effective 1 March 2019. on the achievement of certain performance criteria. Mr. Paniagotis “Takis” Spiliopoulos was appointed as a member of the Executive Temenos applies a policy for share ownership and retention that is applicable Committee (Chief Financial Officer) effective 31 March 2019. to the Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors and to the members of the Executive Committee. Further information is available in the Compensation Report Ms. Alexa Guenoun was appointed as a member of the Executive Committee on page 104. (Chief Client Officer) effective 12 February 2019. Mr. Jean-Michel Hilsenkopf was appointed Chief Operating Officer effective 12 February 2019. Please refer to pages 92 and 93 for their biographies. Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 101 Governance Corporate governance continued 5.2 Rules in the Articles of Association 6. SHAREHOLDERS’ PARTICIPATION RIGHTS 5.2.1 According to Article 27 of the Articles of Association of the Company, 6.1 Voting-rights restrictions and representation performance criteria shall be determined by the Board of Directors or, where 6.1.1 According to the Company’s Articles of Association, only shareholders delegated to it, the Compensation Committee and may include criteria relating to entered in the share register as shareholders or as usufructuaries may exercise the individual performance, performance of the Company or parts thereof as well as voting rights linked to the shares or the other rights connected with these voting rights. performance in relation to the market or other companies, taking into account the The Articles of Association do not contain any restrictions to voting rights. position and level of responsibility of the employee. The Board of Directors or, where delegated to it, the Compensation Committee shall determine the performance 6.1.2 Not applicable. criteria impact on variable compensation (short and long term incentives), including actual achievement and potential maximum achievement, the relative weight of the 6.1.3 Not applicable. performance criteria and the respective target-levels. 6.1.4 Not applicable. Compensation may be paid or granted in cash, shares, or in the form of other types of benefits. Compensation of executive members of the Board of Directors 6.1.5 Shareholders registered in the share register with voting rights on a or members of the executive management may also be granted in the form of determined date are entitled to attend the General Meeting of Shareholders and to stock appreciation rights and similar financial instruments. The Board of Directors exercise their votes. Each shareholder may be represented at the General Meeting or, where delegated to it, the Compensation Committee shall determine grant, of Shareholders by any other person who is authorized by a written proxy, by a vesting, blocking, exercise and forfeiture terms and conditions of these kinds of legal representative or by the independent proxy holder. compensation; in particular, it may provide for continuation, acceleration or removal of vesting and exercise conditions, for payment or grant of compensation based 6.1.6 There are no rules in the Articles of Association about electronic participation upon assumed target achievement, or for forfeiture, in each case in the event of to the General Meeting of Shareholders or instructions to the independent proxy pre-determined events such as a change-of-control or termination of an employment holder. However the shareholders may provide electronically their voting instructions agreement. to the independent proxy holder. The Company may procure the required shares through treasury shares or upon 6.2 Quorums required by the Articles of Association creation of shares out of conditional capital. There are no statutory quorums. The General Meeting of Shareholders shall pass its resolutions and carry out its elections by a simple majority, unless qualified majority is Compensation may be paid by the Company or companies controlled by it. required by law for a specific agenda item. According to Article 26 of the Articles of Association, if the maximum aggregate 6.3 Convocation of the General Meeting of Shareholders amount of compensation already approved by the General Meeting of The General Meeting of Shareholders is convened by publication of the invitation Shareholders is not sufficient to also cover compensation of one or more members and the agenda, at least twenty days before the date of the meeting, in the Swiss who become members of or are being promoted within the executive management Official Gazette of Commerce (Schweizerische Handelsamtsblatt, Feuille Officielle during a compensation period for which the General Meeting of Shareholders Suisse du Commerce). Shareholders representing at least 10% of the share capital has already approved the compensation, the Company or companies controlled may convene an Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders. by it shall be authorized to pay to such member(s) a supplementary amount during the compensation period(s) already approved. The total supplementary amount 6.4 Inclusion of items on the agenda per compensation period shall not exceed 40% of the aggregate amount of One or more shareholders representing shares of an aggregate nominal value of at compensation of the executive management last approved by the General Meeting least CHF 1 million may, up to 45 days before the date of the General Meeting of of Shareholders. Shareholders, request an item to be included on the agenda. Such request must be in writing and shall specify the items and the proposals of these shareholders. 5.2.2 There are no rules in the Articles of Association on loans, credit facilities and post-employment benefits for members of the Board of Directors and Executive 6.5 Entries in the share register Committee. Pursuant to Article 13 paragraph 1 of the Articles of Association, shareholders entered in the share register as shareholders with voting rights on a specific date 5.2.3 According to Article 25 of the Articles of Association, the General Meeting determined by the Board of Directors are entitled to attend and vote at the General of Shareholders shall approve annually and separately the proposals of the Board Meeting of Shareholders. of Directors in relation to the maximum aggregate amount of: >> Compensation of the Board of Directors for the next fiscal year; 7. CHANGES OF CONTROL AND DEFENSE MEASURES >> Compensation of the executive management for the next fiscal year. 7.1 Duty to make an offer There is no ‘opting out’ or ‘opting up’ clause in the Articles of Association. The Board of Directors may submit for approval by the General Meeting of Shareholders proposals in relation to maximum aggregate amounts of compensation 7.2 Clauses on changes of control relating to different periods, in relation to amounts for specific compensation elements In case of change of control in Temenos, all outstanding stock appreciation rights for the same or different periods. (SARs) will become immediately vested and exercisable. In the event a proposal of the Board of Directors has not been approved by the SARs are considered to be outstanding only if the corresponding/relevant service General Meeting of Shareholders, the Board of Directors shall determine, taking period has started (where such relevant service period is specified as part of the into account all relevant factors, the respective maximum aggregate amount of grant documentation). If not specified, they will be considered as outstanding compensation or partial maximum amounts for specific compensation elements, automatically. and submit the amount(s) so determined for approval by a General Meeting of Shareholders. Notwithstanding the above provisions, the Company or companies controlled by it may pay out compensation prior to approval by the General Meeting of Shareholders subject to subsequent approval by a General Meeting of Shareholders. 102 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements 8. AUDITORS 9. INFORMATION POLICY 8.1 Duration of the mandate and term of office of the lead auditor Temenos is committed to open and transparent communication with its shareholders 8.1.1 PricewaterhouseCoopers SA was re-elected as the statutory and group and wider stakeholders. auditor at the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders held on 15 May 2018 for a period of one year (first elected in 2003). Updates Temenos publishes an audited Annual Report for the year to 31 December 8.1.2 Mr. Mike Foley was appointed new lead auditor on 15 May 2018 at the and an unaudited interim report for the six months to 30 June. Temenos also Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. reports figures on a quarterly basis. All of this information and additional companyspecific information is available at http://www.temenos.com/en/about-temenos/ 8.2 Auditing fees investor-relations/. Included in general and administrative expenses is an amount of USD 1,711,206 representing audit fees charged to the Company by PricewaterhouseCoopers for (i) In addition, those interested can sign up on the Temenos website by clicking to the audit of the Group consolidated financial statements and of statutory accounts in the Subscribe button at http://www.temenos.com/en/about-temenos/investorvarious jurisdictions (USD 1,497,206) and (ii) other audit fees related to work than relations/ to receive financial news, key client signings as well as all press releases can only be performed by the Group auditor such as the audit of the compensation issued in accordance with the ad hoc publicity rules; moreover, all these press report (total of USD 214,000). releases are available at http://www.temenos.com/en/about-temenos/investorrelations/financial-press-releases/. 8.3 Additional fees In addition, other fees of USD 1,290,000 have been incurred by Contacting Temenos PricewaterhouseCoopers through the provision of tax advisory and other For any investor relations inquiries please contact the Company at professional services. Please find below a breakdown of the additional fees: TemenosIR@temenos.com and for management dealings inquiries/disclosures of shareholdings notifications at companysecretarial@temenos.com. USD 000 Meeting Temenos Tax Compliance 97 On 15 May 2019, Temenos will hold its Annual General Meeting in Geneva, Transactions 77 Switzerland. This occasion affords shareholders the opportunity to put their questions to the Board and learn more about the Group’s strategic direction. Non Audit Fees – Audit related 174 Tax Advisory 644 Meetings between Directors, institutional shareholders and other market Other Advisory 472 professionals are held regularly as a part of Temenos’ investor relations program. Furthermore, all Directors are available to meet shareholders if requested. Non Audit related 1,116 Total Non Audit Fees 1,290 Dates of publication of 2019 quarterly results and Temenos conferences are published on the Company’s website and updated regularly at http://www.temenos.com/en/about-temenos/investor-relations/calendar/. 8.4 Information instruments pertaining to the external audit The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the performance of external auditors, checking their independence, approving their annual audit plan and fees, and reviewing their findings on internal control procedures as well as steps taken by the auditors to respond to changes in regulatory audit standards and other requirements. At the end of at least one Audit Committee meeting during the year, the Audit Committee members spend time with the external auditors without the presence of management. The external auditors formally report to the Audit Committee during its meetings and have direct access to its Chairman when necessary. The Chairman of the Audit Committee then reports at each meeting of the Board of Directors. Please also refer to paragraphs 3.5.2 and 3.5.3 above. At the beginning of the year, the Audit Committee pre-approves an amount of permitted services that may be performed by the external auditors. Such services are then reviewed on a regular basis at Audit Committee meetings. For any other audit or non-audit related services beyond the above-mentioned limit, authorization is required from the Chairman of the Audit Committee upon recommendation from the Chief Financial Officer. Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 103 Governance Compensation Report LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE COMPENSATION COMMITTEE “We are pleased to present you with our 2018 In February 2019, David Arnott decided to step down to spend more time with his Compensation Report. Once again last year, family. I am delighted to announce that Max Chuard, former CFO/COO, has been appointed as CEO with effect from 1 March 2019. Panagiotis “Takis” Spiliopoulos, shareholders sent a positive message on our will be joining as CFO on 31 March 2019. Jean-Michel Hilsenkopf has been compensation proposals and its structures with appointed as COO and Alexa Guenoun joins the Executive Committee in her positive affirmation on all of our resolution items. position as CCO (Chief Client Officer). 2018 was another successful year for Temenos with non-IFRS total software license In January 2018, we extended our Executive growth of 21% and non-IFRS EPS growth of 21%. The Company’s strong financial Committee with the addition of Jean-Michel performance was driven by excellent execution on the part of our commercial teams, coupled with strong control of our operating costs. Hilsenkopf as our Chief Revenue Officer (CRO). In addition, on 20 December 2018, we acquired We have grown shareholder returns by 133% over three years and 854 % over Avoka, a leader in digital customer acquisition and the last ten years. Below is the historical growth compared to the average of our peer group: onboarding, and I am very pleased to welcome the employees to the Temenos family.” 10 year Total Shareholder Return (TSR) 3 years 5 years 10 years average Temenos 133% 340% 854% 85% Average of peer group 66% 120% 660% 66% As part of its mandate, the Compensation Committee continues to monitor and ensure that: >> We have a strong link between pay and performance and that the success of management mirrors that of our shareholders; >> Variable compensation is based on achievement of business goals and on share price performance; >> We have the support of our shareholders on our compensation proposals. In 2018, we have continued to make improvements to our governance, in particular, this year we are disclosing product revenue targets on a prospective basis for the LTIP program for the first time. Shareholder feedback is obtained on a continuing basis by senior management and as in previous years, I have offered to meet with key shareholders specifically on Compensation topics, and meetings are taking place in February and March 2019. The Compensation Committee remains committed to this dialogue with shareholders, and we welcome regular feedback on our compensation policies. I look forward to having the opportunity of meeting with you again in 2019 and we look forward to receiving your support at the AGM. Sergio Giacoletto-Roggio Chairman of the Compensation Committee 104 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements A. COMPENSATION POLICY AND PRINCIPLES A.3.The role of the Compensation Committee A.1. Compensation objectives The Compensation Committee is authorized by the Board of Directors to: This report has been prepared in accordance with articles 13-17 of the Ordinance against Excessive Compensation in Stock Exchange Listed Companies. >> Recommend to the Board of Directors compensation practices and policies for Executives; Temenos’ executive compensation programs are designed with two main >> Align the interests of the Executives and senior managers to the long term interests goals in mind: of the Company and its shareholders by recommending compensation practices and policies that are equitable and performance based; >> Pay for Performance alignment: by making the major portion of compensation >> Review the competitiveness of the Company’s executive compensation programs dependent on achieving increased shareholder value for the long term; and and thereby ensure the attraction and retention of the Executives and senior >> Fostering a performance-based corporate culture through variable compensation. managers who are key in delivering the Company’s business objectives; >> Confirm that compensation packages for Executives and senior managers are in Temenos is committed to building long term shareholder value. In order to ensure we line with market norms. encourage and drive this value creation, 85% of the compensation is performance driven and therefore at risk and will not be earned unless the executive team To fulfill its duties, the Compensation Committee typically meets at least three times delivers on stretch long and short term targets. during the year on the following cycle: Executive compensation consists of: >> November – to review the Compensation Committee terms of reference, to review compensation practices and policies for the forthcoming financial year, to (i) fixed cash compensation and benefits; approve fixed compensation and principles for variable short term and long term (ii) variable cash linked to short term performance targets incentives for Executives; (i.e. current financial year); and >> February – to approve the performance targets for variable short term incentive, (iii) equity based variable compensation that is linked to long term and to approve the long term variable compensation grant including performance performance targets. targets; and >> March – to recommend prospective compensation to be submitted for approval Compensation of the non-executive members of the Board of Directors comprises at the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. fixed compensation only. In 2018, the Compensation Committee met three times as per the above cycle. Performance criteria are set by the Board of Directors and may include criteria relating to the performance of the Company or parts thereof, performance in relation The Compensation Committee comprises four Independent and to the market or other companies, as well as individual performance. The Board of Non-Executive Directors: Directors determines the extent to which the performance criteria impact variable compensation, including maximum opportunity, and the relative weight of the >> Sergio Giacoletto-Roggio, Chairman performance criteria. The Board of Directors also oversees the conditions linked to >> Ian Cookson the grant, vesting, exercise and the forfeiture of equity based incentive programs. >> Erik Hansen >> Amy Yip A.2. Organization and competencies Executives The Compensation Committee members are elected annually by shareholders. The Executives who served in the 2018 financial year are: Approval process Board of Directors: Before submission to the shareholders for approval, the recommendation of compensation packages for Board and Executive Committee members are >> Andreas Andreades, Executive Chairman governed as follows: Executive Committee: Compensation of Recommended by Approved by Executive Chairman Compensation Committee Board of Directors >> David Arnott, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the Board >> Max Chuard, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer (CFO/COO) Executive Committee Compensation Committee Board of Directors >> Jean-Michel Hilsenkopf, Chief Revenue Officer (CRO), effective 12 January 2018 Non-Executive members Chief Executive Officer Chairman of the Board >> André Loustau, Chief Technology Officer (CTO) of the Board >> Mark Winterburn, Chief Product Officer (CPO) The Executive Chairman and the Executive Committee are hereinafter referred to as the ‘Executives.’ Non-Executive Directors The Non-Executive Directors who served in the 2018 financial year are: >> Sergio Giacoletto-Roggio, Vice Chairman >> Ian Cookson >> Erik Hansen >> George Koukis >> Thibault de Tersant >> Amy Yip >> Peter Spenser Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 105 Governance Compensation Report continued Benchmarking process To ensure executive compensation is correctly set in the context of industry practice, the Compensation Committee reviews benchmark data collated from a range of organizations in the technology sector. Temenos has reviewed its Comparator Group for 2018. The Comparator Group has been selected based on the following criteria: >> Companies targeted for hiring talent into Temenos; >> Software companies that have similar operating characteristics to Temenos in terms of global reach, target markets, competitive dynamics and complexity; >> Major European software companies; and >> Financial services software companies that industry analysts rank as global top performers. Fidessa was acquired during 2018, and has been replaced by Workday. All other companies are the same as those used in 2017. Temenos is close to the median market capitalization of our peer group of USD 10 billion, and at USD 0.8 billion of revenues in 2018 we are approaching the median revenue of our peer group. A large part of the Comparator Group are companies based in the USA. This is due to the fact that the majority of the global software players originate in the USA (73 of the top 100 global software companies are based in the US according to research by PwC in 2014) and therefore they represent a significant part of our direct competitors. The following 17 companies are those used for the benchmark: Organization Country Organization Country ACI Worldwide USA Quality Systems USA Broadridge Financial Solutions USA SDL UK Citrix USA Simcorp Denmark Fidelity National Information Services USA Software AG Germany Fiserv USA SS&C USA Jack Henry and Associates USA The Sage Group UK Intuit USA Wirecard Germany Logitech International Switzerland Workday USA Micro Focus International plc UK Shareholder engagement We routinely engage with shareholders to discuss business, performance, compensation and governance matters. Specifically with regard to executive compensation, in November 2018 we communicated by letter with our main shareholders outlining our compensation philosophy and inviting them to a meeting with Temenos management or Board members at their convenience. The Chairman of the Compensation Committee engaged in face-to-face meetings or conference calls with our largest shareholders and a number of shareholder advisory groups during February and March 2019. Regular shareholder dialogue is a key priority of our management and Board. Votes on compensation As set out in the Articles of Association, the General Meeting of Shareholders shall approve annually and separately the proposals of the Board of Directors in relation to the maximum aggregate amount of: >> Compensation of the Board of Directors for the next fiscal year; and >> Compensation of the Executive Committee for the next fiscal year. The Board of Directors may submit for approval by the General Meeting of Shareholders proposals in relation to maximum aggregate amounts of compensation relating to different periods, or in relation to amounts for specific compensation elements for the same or different periods. In the event a proposal of the Board of Directors has not been approved by the General Meeting of Shareholders, the Board of Directors shall determine, taking into account all relevant factors, the respective maximum aggregate amount of compensation or partial maximum amounts for specific compensation elements, and submit the amount(s) so determined for approval by a General Meeting of Shareholders. The Company may pay out compensation prior to approval by the General Meeting of Shareholders subject to subsequent approval by the General Meeting of Shareholders. As stated in the Articles of Association, if the maximum aggregate amount of compensation already approved by the General Meeting of Shareholders is not sufficient to also cover compensation of one or more members who become members of, or are being promoted within, the Executive Committee during a compensation period for which the General Meeting of Shareholders has already approved the compensation, the Company is authorized to pay the member a supplementary amount during the compensation period already approved. The total supplementary amount per compensation period shall not exceed 40% of the aggregate amount of compensation of the Executive Committee last approved by the General Meeting of Shareholders. 106 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements B. PAY FOR PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL To align with stockholders’ interests, Temenos’ executive compensation program is designed to foster a pay-for-performance culture. The chart below shows a percentage split of aggregate compensation of the Executives for 2018. The fixed salary and benefits are the only unconditional, i.e. non risk components; short term variable is dependent on the achievement of the results for 2018 and long term variable is dependent on the achievement of the results for the three year period 2018 to 2020 inclusive. Compared to our peer group, the portion of our at-risk compensation is higher and corresponds to significantly more stretching threshold goals, with EPS growth target in-line with the average. EPS growth CAGR At risk compensation Minimum thresholds over 2 years Temenos 86% 85% 19% Average of peer group 56% 41% 19% In 2018, 86% of total compensation was variable and conditional upon performance targets and therefore at risk. Based on the outstanding growth delivered in 2018 one third of the long term incentive is earned and the short term targets were exceeded. The compensation for the Executive Chairman and Executive Committee was made up as follows: 2018 EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN AND EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Fixed fee/salary 12% Other compensation 2% Variable short term incentives 14% LTIP earned 24% LTIP not earned 48% At risk compensation 86% The ‘LTIP earned’ is the part of the 2018 grant relating to the delivery of non-IFRS EPS and non-IFRS product revenue targets for the financial year 2018. The target for 2018 has been met and the component of the 2018 LTIP grant can no longer be forfeited, even though subject to time vesting criteria until February 2021. SAR PAYOUT vs NON-IFRS EPS CAGR GROWTH FOR 3 YEAR PLAN 140% 35% Year of SAR plan Payout 30% 2007 100% 120% 2008 0% 25% 2009 60% 100% Non-IFRS EPS CAGR growth 20% 2010 30% 15% 80% 2011 0% SAR payout 10% 2012 13% 60% 2013 101% 5% 2014 100% 40% 0% 2015 110% -5% 20% 2016 121% -10% 0% -15% 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Year of SAR plan SAR payout Non-IFRS EPS CAGR growth for 3 year period With regard to the Long Term Incentive Plan, the chart above shows the trend of payout vs CAGR growth of non-IFRS EPS targets during the vesting period of the scheme. Targets will continue to be set at challenging levels and reflect long term performance in order to maintain the direct link between pay and performance. Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 107 Governance Compensation Report continued C. COMPENSATION COMPONENTS C.1. Summary of Compensation elements for employees The table below explains the compensation elements for 2018: Fixed Salary Variable Short Term Incentive and Benefits (bonus or commission) Variable Long Term Equity Incentive Eligibility All employees All employees Executive Chairman, Executive Committee members and senior managers Basis for funding Continuity of service, role Role and experience with a 90% Continuity of service over three years and experience threshold on the global or regional plus achievement of three year non-IFRS targets to be achieved prior to the fund EPS targets and non-IFRS product accumulating, allocation based on revenue targets performance Payout Monthly or bi-weekly depending After performance for the financial year On Board of Directors approval of the on jurisdiction has been audited results for the final year of the Stock Appreciation Rights (SAR) plan Payout subject to Forfeiture rules No Yes Yes KPIs No Yes Yes Performance range for Executive None 0% to 150% of fixed salary, Up to 140% of on-target LTIP value Directors, Executive Committee members 0% below 90% target threshold if all targets are exceeded by 20%, and senior managers 0% below 85% target threshold Settlement Cash Cash and deferred shares Shares on a net basis Malus and clawback clauses Not applicable Yes Yes C.2. Compensation elements for the Executive Chairman and Executive Committee members The elements of the above table, together with their objectives, are as follows: Fixed salary >> To compensate Executives for their expected day-to-day management, leadership and contribution to the business. Benefits >> To provide a level of security in health and retirement and, should it be required, in disability and death. Variable Short Term Incentive >> To make a significant portion of Executive overall annual compensation variable and dependent on delivery of the Company’s annual key targets of license revenue, cash collection, non-IFRS EBIT and/or non-IFRS EPS growth. >> The variable short term incentive is paid in cash. Variable Long Term Equity Incentive >> To provide a balance of total compensation, via long term equity incentives, that is variable and linked directly to long term shareholder value creation. >> To incentivize sustainable future performance in non-IFRS EPS growth and non-IFRS product revenue growth. Product revenue is defined as software licensing, including Software as a Service, and maintenance revenues. >> To retain Executives for the long term. The Executive Chairman works in an executive capacity full time and is jointly responsible, together with the Executive Committee for the delivery of the business plan. His role is described in more detail on page 99. His compensation reflects his executive role and as such is made up of a fixed salary, benefits, variable compensation as a short term incentive and Stock Appreciation Rights as a variable long term incentive. C.3. Summary of Key Compensation changes in 2018 >> There was no change in fixed compensation for any of the Executives, nor the Board members. >> The main changes made in 2018 are: >> For the short term incentive, a SaaS ACV target was introduced for the first time. SaaS has been a focus for the sales teams and regional directors at Temenos for the last few years. SaaS is an important growing sector in the market and we would like to ensure the teams are driven to sell SaaS deals in the same way as on premise license deals. In 2018 the Executives incentive plan was also aligned to this strategic initiative. >> For the long term incentive, the weighting of the KPIs was amended to give a higher weighting to Product Revenues to reinforce the Company strategy, supported by the shareholders, of driving growth of the top line. 108 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements C.4. Variable Short Term Incentive The incentive for 2018 is due in cash on approval of the results for the financial year 2018 by the Board of Directors. Performance criteria Annual targets for Executives are set by the Board based on recommendations by the Compensation Committee. For 2018, the short term incentive plan was based on the following targets: >> Non-IFRS software licensing (40%) >> SaaS ACV (15%) >> Non-IFRS EPS (20%) >> Operating cash flow (25%) On-target performance is rewarded at 100% of fixed salary. Annual incentive payouts for other senior managers are based on a mix of corporate and specific regional objectives. Final overall payout for the Executives is 114%. The targets and respective achievements are set out in the table below: Percentage Target Actual % of 2018 Target of Bonus USD USD Threshold Achievement % Paid Non-IFRS software licensing 40% 373m 373m 90% 100% 100% SaaS ACV 15% 7.5m 10.0m 90% 134% 150%* Non-IFRS EPS 20% 2.75 2.95 90% 107% 115% Net Operating Cash flow 25% 341m 365m 90% 107% 114% Total 107% 114% * Maximum achievement of 125% was exceeded, hence payout capped at 150%. C.5. Long Term Equity Incentive The Company grants Stock Appreciation Rights (SARs) to Executives and senior managers with performance and vesting criteria. We continue to favor the use of SARs over restricted stock as they necessitate a growth in the share price, which itself is dependent on strong Company performance, before they have any value to the recipient. In this way, we incentivize the management team to deliver strong revenue growth and profitability over the long term. The SAR plan is available for the Executive Chairman, Executive Committee members and senior managers. Grant conditions are linked to the achievement of annual and three year cumulative non-IFRS EPS and/or non-IFRS product revenue targets, vesting after more than three years. SARs are valued on a fair value basis by an independent organization using the Enhanced American Model so as to comply with IFRS 2. To ensure pricing integrity, long term equity awards are not issued at a discount to market price; they are priced at the closing market price on the day preceding the grant date. The tables below provide an overview of the schemes in place together with their performance criteria and pricing. The level and value of awards is commensurate with an executive’s contribution to the business. Overview of Executive SAR schemes The Schemes that are not yet vested are outlined in the table below, including 2018 scheme granted in this compensation year: Weighted No. of SARs awarded for average Executive Chairman and Exercise Price Fair Value Year of Grant Executive Committee USD USD Grant Date Vesting date 2018 635,400 127.00 30.10 14 February 2018 On Board of Directors approval of the results for the year ending 31 December 2020 2017 974,600 70.87 16.03 15 February 2017 On Board of Directors approval of the results for the year ending 31 December 2019 2016 1,316,000 44.30 10.00 15 February 2016 and On Board of Directors approval plus 268,909 for 7 March 2016 of the results for the year ending overachievement 31 December 2018 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 109 Governance Compensation Report continued Vesting conditions Vesting of the SAR awards is subject to active employment until the end of the respective vesting period, and subject to achievement of performance targets described below. The targets for the SAR schemes are outlined below: Weighting 2016 and 2017 Weighting KPI SARs 2018 SARs Non-IFRS EPS Targets 60% 40% Non-IFRS Product Revenues 40% 60% The weighting was changed in 2018 to reinforce the board’s strategic priority of delivering faster product revenue growth which is also in line with the top priority of our shareholders. The targets for the 2018 plan for non-IFRS EPS are based on a CAGR of 15% for the three year period to the vesting of each grant and for non-product revenues are based on a CAGR of 13% for the three year period to the vesting of each grant. Vesting profile The vesting profile of SARs is the greater of: i. The sum of the result of each of the individual years, where one third of the plan is based on achievement of annual results for each year of the three year plan. There is no overachievement element on the awards linked to annual targets and achievement is binary either 0 or 100%. ii. Cumulative target achievement being greater than 85% of the sum of the annual targets. On the cumulative target there is a potential overachievement as explained below. Over/under achievement of SAR schemes For achievement between 85% and 100% of target a pro-rated reduced amount will vest. For every 1% overachievement of the three years cumulative non-IFRS EPS and non-IFRS product revenue target, an additional 2% of SARs may be granted up to a maximum of 140% of the total grant. Any over or underachievement is calculated based on the table below. Intermediate performance is pro-rated on a straight-line basis between the data points shown. Cumulative non-IFRS EPS or non-IFRS product revenues: Achieved as % of Cumulative target 85% 92.5% 100% 110% 120% Proportion vesting 0% 50% 100% 120% 140% Achievement of the 2016 SAR scheme Under the 2016 SAR scheme, which vested on 13 February 2019, the non-IFRS EPS performance targets and respective achievements were: Actual Growth on Year Target achievement prior year 2016 USD 1.98 USD 2.07 20% 2017 USD 2.27 USD 2.45 18% 2018 USD 2.62 USD 2.95 20% Cumulative USD 6.87 USD 7.47 19% CAGR Achievement for non-IFRS EPS 109% The non-IFRS product revenue cumulative performance target and cumulative respective achievements were as follows: Actual Target achievement Year USD m USD m Growth Cumulative 2016-2018 non-IFRS Product Revenues 1,696 1,922 18% CAGR Achievement for non-IFRS Product Revenues 113% * Actual results are restated at constant currency compared to plan. The combined payout for the 2016 SAR plan as a result of overachievement on both KPIs is as follows: Actual Combined Payout for 2016 SAR plan Weighting achievement Payout Cumulative 2016-2018 non-IFRS EPS 60% 109% 117% Cumulative 2016-2018 non-IFRS Product Revenues 40% 113% 127% Combined Achievement and Payout 110% 121% 110 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements C.6. Share ownership Temenos runs a policy for Stock Ownership and Retention for the Executive Chairman and members of the Executive Committee. Owning company stock helps align executives’ financial interests with those of shareholders. The following minimum amount of shares must be held: Executive Chairman 4 times annual fixed salary CEO 5 times annual fixed salary CFO/COO 3 times annual fixed salary CTO, CPO, CRO 1 time annual fixed salary The Executive Chairman and all members of the Executive Committee met the requirements as at 31 December 2018, other than CRO who is a new member this year. New members must achieve the requirement by the later of two years after appointment to the Executive Committee or their first SAR vesting date after their appointment to the Executive Committee. The number of shares to be held are calculated based on the closing stock price of 31 December of the prior year and the fixed salary for the year. For example, the number of shares required to be held on 31 December 2018 is calculated based on the share price of 31 December 2017 and fixed salary for the year 2018. This allows the Executives sufficient time to take any required actions. SARs do not count towards meeting the guidelines. The shares that count are Temenos ordinary shares. The shareholdings are shown in section F.1. C.7. Dilution A stock appreciation right (SAR) is an incentive given to employees that aligns their interest with shareholders and is equal to the appreciation of company stock over an established time period. Similar to employee stock options, SARs are beneficial to the employee when company stock price rises; the difference with SARs is that employees do not pay the exercise price but only receive the sum of the increase in stock or cash. This means that the dilution on outstanding SARs is only known at the time of exercise as it is dependent on the share price at that time. As an example, if 1,000 SARs at a grant price of USD 44 are exercised when the share price is USD 130, then the gain is USD 86,000, equivalent to a 662 share dilution. When issuing SARs the Compensation Committee reviews the planned dilution to ensure that it remains within our target of no more than 2% pa on a CAGR basis. The dilution for the period 2016-2018 on a CAGR basis was less than 1% pa. This compares to an EPS growth of 19% pa on a CAGR basis for the same period. The total cumulative dilution as of 31 December 2018 from all outstanding SARs and stock options was 5% and historically it has been well under the 10% level which is considered generally acceptable dilution for fast growing companies. C.8. Contract terms for the Executive Chairman and Executive Committee members The contractual notice periods of the Executive Chairman, being the sole executive member of the Board of Directors, and members of the Executive Committee do not exceed 12 months; there are no severance payment clauses. In case of a change of control of Temenos AG, all SARs granted will become immediately vested and exercisable provided that their respective vesting period has started. A case of change of control occurs when a third party acquires the control of more than 50% ownership in Temenos AG. In case of dismissal for cause, all unvested options and SARs are forfeited. In case of termination, conditions vary by role and are described in each plan. C.9. Compensation elements for Non-Executive Directors The Non-Executive Directors were compensated in 2018 with a fee for their Board duties, together with a supplementary fee for Audit, Nomination and Compensation Committees’ chairs. Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 111 Governance Compensation Report continued D. COMPENSATION FOR FINANCIAL YEAR UNDER REVIEW – AUDITED This section (page 112 to page 114) has been audited by Temenos’ auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers SA. As individuals are paid in currencies other than US dollars, the amounts in the tables below are converted into US dollars using the average exchange rate for 2018 and the average exchange rate for 2017 respectively. Comparison between these two years may be distorted through the exchange rate fluctuations. The LTIP value included in the tables below represents the full fair value of the on-target achievement at the time of grant i.e. for 2018 it includes 100% of the fair value of the 2018 grant. The SARs grant (number of SARs) is only realized if (i) non-IFRS EPS and non-IFRS product revenue targets are achieved AND (ii) the time vesting criteria have been satisfied. For any value to be realized, even if the SAR is granted, the stock price has to rise above the grant price. The valuation method, conditions and grant details are explained in the paragraph titled Compensation Components. In order for the 2018 fair value to be realized 100% the following need to be satisfied: Product revenues of at least 13% CAGR growth over the three years AND EPS CAGR growth of at least 15% (or a different combination between the two in accordance with the weightings and over/under achievement) AND Stock price CAGR of at least 7.3% compared to the grant stock price of USD 127. D.1. Board of Directors The total compensation for the Board of Directors including social security charges totals USD 7.2 million compared to a total maximum compensation of USD 7.415 million approved by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 10 May 2017. Out of the total Executive Chairman’s 2018 compensation of USD 6.2 million, USD 3.1 million has been earned, and the remainder will only be earned if the non-IFRS EPS and non-IFRS product revenue targets for the period 2019-2020 are achieved and the time vesting criteria have been satisfied. The amount earned includes the proportion of LTIPs at fair value for which targets have been achieved even though time vesting criteria have not yet been satisfied. The increase of 0.5% from 2017 to 2018 was approved by shareholders at the AGM in May 2017. The increase is due to Peter Spencer joining the Board as nonExecutive Director mid-year in 2017. Total Employer compensation Variable Total social including Maximum Name Fixed fee/ short term All other compensation Total security social security shareholder Board Function USD Fiscal year salary incentive compensation1 before LTIP LTIP value compensation charges 2 charges approval A. Andreades3 2018 639,846 728,536 138,763 1,507,145 4,679,045 6,186,190 141,380 6,327,570 Executive Chairman 2017 636,375 727,318 131,310 1,495,003 4,679,157 6,174,160 141,227 6,315,387 S. Giacoletto-Roggio4 2018 145,000 – – 145,000 – 145,000 9,716 154,716 Vice Chairman 2017 145,000 – – 145,000 – 145,000 9,736 154,736 G. Koukis 2018 105,000 – 0 105,000 – 105,000 7,712 112,712 Member 2017 105,000 – 13,504 118,504 – 118,504 7,722 126,226 T. de Tersant5 2018 145,000 – – 145,000 – 145,000 12,616 157,616 Member 2017 145,000 – – 145,000 – 145,000 12,629 157,629 I. Cookson 2018 105,000 – – 105,000 – 105,000 6,673 111,673 Member 2017 105,000 – – 105,000 – 105,000 6,691 111,691 E. Hansen 2018 114,160 – – 114,160 – 114,160 0 114,160 Member 2017 114,186 – – 114,186 – 114,186 0 114,186 A. Yip 2018 105,000 – – 105,000 – 105,000 6,673 111,673 Member 2017 105,000 – – 105,000 – 105,000 6,691 111,691 P. Spenser 2018 105,000 – – 105,000 – 105,000 0 105,000 Member 2017 65,597 – – 65,597 – 65,597 0 65,597 Total Board 2018 1,464,006 728,536 138,763 2,331,305 4,679,045 7,010,350 184,770 7,195,120 7,415,000 of Directors 2017 1,421,158 727,318 144,814 2,293,290 4,679,157 6,972,447 184,696 7,157,143 7,300,000 (1) All other compensation includes life, medical, disability, accident insurances, pension and car allowance. (2) Social security charges comprise actual charges on base salary and other compensation, and estimated social security charges to be paid for bonus and LTIPs (based on the fair value) granted in the year of compensation. (3) Mr. Andreades’ total compensation includes fees of USD 105,000 for his Board duties, the remainder represents compensation for his executive duties. Mr. Andreades’ long term incentive plan compensation corresponds to the full fair value, as at grant, of the 2018 executive team SAR award. The variable short term incentive is 113% of the on-target amount, payable in February 2019. The LTIP for Mr. Andreades consists of 155,450 SARs which were granted on 15 February 2018 at a grant price of USD 127 and a fair value of USD 30.10. (4) Mr. Giacoletto-Roggio’s fees comprise a basic fee of USD 105,000 (USD 105,000 for 2017) annually plus USD 40,000 (USD 40,000 for 2017) annually for his duties as Chairman of the Compensation Committee. He does not receive additional fees for his duties as Vice-Chairman of the Company. (5) Mr. de Tersant’s fees comprise a basic fee of USD 105,000 (USD 105,000 for 2017) annually plus USD 40,000 (USD 40,000 for 2017) annually for his duties as Chairman of the Audit Committee. 112 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements D.2. Executive Committee The total compensation for the Executive Committee including social security charges totals USD 22.1 million. Shareholders approved USD 18.5 million at the AGM on 10 May 2017. As per the Articles of Association, an additional 40% of the approved amount can be added in case of a new member joining the Executive Committee. With the addition of Mr. Jean-Michel Hilsenkopf we were therefore permitted to exceed the approved amount by up to USD 7.4 million but we only used USD 3.6 million. The compensation of its other five members did not exceed the USD 18.5 million approved, the additional amount was wholly due to the addition of Mr. Hilsenkopf. The total of all compensation, in US dollars, earned in 2018 and 2017 by the members of the Executive Committee is shown below. From the total compensation of USD 20.1 million, USD 9.5 million has been earned and the remainder will only be earned if the non-IFRS EPS and non-IFRS product revenue targets for the period 2019-2020 as set out in the report are achieved. The amount earned includes the proportion of LTIPs for which targets have been achieved even though the time vesting criteria have not yet been satisfied. The Executive Committee members included in 2018 were Mr. Arnott, Mr. Chuard, Mr. Hilsenkopf, Mr. Loustau and Mr. Winterburn. Mr. Hilsenkopf joined the Executive Committee on 12 January 2018, hence his full year’s compensation has been included. The table below includes the compensation of Mr. Arnott who is the highest paid member of the Executive Committee and of the Company. The reason for the increase from 2017 to 2018 is as a result of Mr. Hilsenkopf joining the Executive Committee in the role of Chief Revenue Officer. Total compensation Employer including Variable Total social social Maximum Base short term All other compensation LTIP Total security security shareholder Fiscal year salary incentive 1 compensation 2 before LTIP value 3 compensation charges 4 charges approval 2018 2,488,210 2,834,072 303,167 5,625,449 14,446,495 20,071,944 1,986,832 22,058,776 18,500,000 plus 7,400,00 for new member 2017 1,895,994 3,006,253 202,835 5,105,082 10,943,681 16,048,763 1,634,514 17,683,277 18,500,000 (1) The variable short term incentive is 113% of the on-target payable amount. The variable short term incentive is payable in February 2019. (2) All other compensation includes life, medical, disability, accident insurances, pension and car allowance. (3) The LTIP for the Executive Committee consists of 479,950 SARs which were granted on 13 February 2018 at a grant price of USD 127 and a fair value of USD 30.10. (4) Social security charges comprise actual charges on base salary and other compensation, and estimated social security charges to be paid for bonus and LTIPs (based on the fair value) granted in the year of compensation. D.3 Highest paid member of the Executive Committee Mr. Arnott, our CEO, was the highest paid member of the Executive Committee in 2018 with compensation, in US dollars, as shown below. 88% of his total compensation in 2018 was variable and conditional upon the 2019-2020 performance targets to be achieved. Total compensation Employer including Variable Total social social Base short term All other compensation Total security security Fiscal year salary incentive compensation before LTIP LTIP value 1 compensation charges charges 2018 823,239 937,669 68,497 1,829,405 5,674,452 7,503,857 647,832 8,151,689 2017 817,896 932,402 55,113 1,805,411 5,674,620 7,480,031 647,513 8,127,544 (1) The LTIP for the CEO consists of 188,520 SARs which were granted on 13 February 2018 at a grant price of USD 127 and a fair value of USD 30.10. Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 113 Governance Compensation Report continued D.4. Compensation in CHF Pursuant to Article 958d alinea 3 of the Swiss Code of Obligations compensation amounts may be quoted in the most significant currency of the business activity, in Temenos case it is USD, but must also be quoted in CHF. The amounts quoted below in CHF for the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee and highest paid Executive Committee member respectively are calculated taking the USD amount converted at the average exchange rate for the year. The exchange rate used in 2018 was 0.9784 (2017: 0.9847). Total compensation Employer including Variable Total social social Function Fiscal Fixed fee/ short term All other compensation Long term Total security security CHF year salary incentive compensation before LTIP incentive compensation charges charges Board of Directors 2018 1,428,960 712,786 135,763 2,277,509 4,577,889 6,855,398 180,776 7,036,174 2017 1,399,515 716,243 142,609 2,258,367 4,607,902 6,866,269 181,883 7,048,152 Total compensation Employer including Variable Total social social Function Fiscal Base short term All other compensation Long term Total security security CHF year salary incentive compensation before LTIP incentive compensation charges charges Executive Committee 2018 2,434,419 2,772,803 296,611 5,503,833 14,134,176 19,638,009 1,943,879 21,581,888 2017 1,867,121 2,960,474 199,746 5,027,341 10,777,028 15,804,369 1,609,623 17,413,991 Total compensation Employer including Variable Total social social Function Fiscal Base short term All other compensation Long term Total security security CHF year salary incentive compensation before LTIP incentive compensation charges charges David Arnott, CEO 2018 805,441 917,396 67,018 1,789,855 5,551,776 7,341,631 633,827 7,975,458 2017 805,441 918,203 54,274 1,777,918 5,588,205 7,366,123 637,653 8,003,776 D.5. Loans granted to members of governing bodies As of 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017 the Company has no outstanding loans to members of the Board of Directors and Executive Committee other than a bridging loan of USD 0.1 million to CPO which is to compensate his adverse tax position from his combined residence in both UK and Switzerland, where he spends time at the request of Temenos. No loans were granted to persons related to the Board of Directors or Executive Committee. 114 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements E. THE YEAR AHEAD: COMPENSATION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE FOR 2019 At the Annual General Meeting in 2018, the shareholders approved total compensation including social charges for year 2019 for the Board of Directors of USD 7.5 million and for the Executive Committee of USD 23.1 million. E.1. Changes that affect 2019 fixed compensation The Executive Committee has been changed in 2019. David Arnott, the CEO, has resigned effective 28 February 2019 and the new Executive Committee is as follows: Max Chuard, CEO (Chief Executive Officer) appointed CEO effective 1 March 2019 Panagiotis “Takis” Spiliopoulos, CFO (Chief Financial Officer) appointed as member of the Executive Committee (CFO) effective 31 March 2019 Jean-Michel Hilsenkopf, COO (Chief Operating Officer) appointed COO effective 12 February 2019 André Loustau, CTO (Chief Technology Officer) Mark Winterburn, CPO (Chief Product Officer) Alexa Guenoun, CCO (Chief Client Officer) appointed as member of the Executive Committee (CCO) effective 12 February 2019 The addition of one member (CCO) to the team will mean an additional cost compared to that approved, but the compensation of the other 5 members will be within the shareholder approval. >> The new CEO compensation will be in line with the previous CEO. >> The Board fees paid to Non-Executive Directors and the fees for the Chairman of the Audit Committee and for the Chairman of the Compensation Committee will remain flat compared to 2018. >> The variable Short Term Incentive for the Executives will remain at a maximum of 150%. E.2. 2019 Variable Short Term Incentive for Executives For 2019, the performance metrics and their weighting will remain the same as in 2018, that is: >> 40% Non-IFRS Software Licensing >> 15% SaaS Annual Contract Value >> 20% Non-IFRS EPS >> 25% Non-IFRS Operating Cash The targets are considered commercially sensitive and are not disclosed in advance. E.3. 2019 Long Term Incentive Plan Awards for Executives The LTIP award for 2019 was issued in February 2019. 40% of the award is comprised of non-IFRS EPS targets, 60% of the award is comprised of non-IFRS product revenue targets. The targets for non-IFRS EPS are based on a CAGR of 15% for the three year period 2019-2021. The targets for non-IFRS product revenues are based on a CAGR of 14 % for the three year period 2019-2021. The performance against those measures will be disclosed in the year of vesting. E.4. 2019 Compensation Plan components For 2019, the split of aggregate compensation for the Executives at the on-target level is shown below. The majority of compensation (87%) is at risk and dependent on achieving the annual total software licensing, operating cash flow and annual non-IFRS EPS and non-IFRS product revenue targets for the 2019 to 2021 financial years. The only fixed compensation which is guaranteed is the fixed salary and benefits which, in aggregate amount to 13% of the on-target total compensation. 2019 EXECUTIVES Fixed fee/salary 11% Other compensation 2% Variable short term incentives 19% LTIP 68% At risk compensation 87% The LTIP for 2019 is subject to delivery of the non-IFRS EPS and non-IFRS product revenue targets for the financial years 2019, 2020 and 2021 that are still at risk, hence not yet earned. Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 115 Governance Compensation Report continued F. OTHER INFORMATION F.1. Shareholdings and equity incentives Non-Executive Directors 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Name Position Shares Shares S. Giacoletto-Roggio Vice-Chairman 9,000 11,000 I. Cookson Member 15,500 15,500 T. de Tersant Member 3,000 3,000 E. Hansen Member 11,000 11,000 G. Koukis Member 15,000 – A. Yip Member – – P. Spenser Member – – Executive Chairman and Executive Committee members Shares SARS Number of Number of Exercise unvested unvested Grant price SARs SARs Name Position 2018 2017 year Plan USD 2018 2017 A. Andreades Executive Chairman 582,369 752,629 2014 2 2015 scheme 3 35.45 – 380,949 2016 2016 scheme 1 43.69 325,000 325,000 2016 scheme 1 49.12 46,000 46,000 2017 2017 scheme 70.87 291,900 291,900 2018 2018 scheme 127.00 155,450 – D. Arnott CEO 35,000 57,500 2014 2 2015 scheme 3 35.45 – 507,932 2016 2016 scheme 1 43.69 432,000 432,000 2016 scheme 1 49.12 66,000 66,000 2017 2017 scheme 70.87 354,000 354,000 2018 2018 scheme 127.00 188,520 – M. Chuard CFO/COO 65,000 65,000 2014 2 2015 scheme 3 35.45 – 253,966 2016 2016 scheme 1 43.69 258,000 258,000 2016 scheme 1 49.12 35,000 35,000 2017 2017 scheme 70.87 254,300 254,300 2018 2018 scheme 127.00 135,430 – J. Hilsenkopf CRO 0 na 2018 2018 scheme 127.00 92,000 na A. Loustau CTO 3,673 3,673 2014 2 2015 scheme 3 35.45 – 49,689 2016 2016 scheme 1 43.69 45,000 45,000 2017 2017 scheme 70.87 29,400 29,400 2018 2018 scheme 127.00 27,000 – M. Winterburn CPO 3,975 3,975 2014 2 2015 scheme 3 35.45 – 82,815 2016 2016 scheme 1 43.69 65,000 65,000 2017 2017 scheme 70.87 45,000 45,000 2018 2018 scheme 127.00 37,000 – (1) The SARs granted under the 2016 scheme vested on 13 February 2019. The numbers above include the overachievement of 121%. (2) The 2015 grant was issued in November 2014 but was considered compensation for 2015. (3) The SARs granted under the 2015 scheme vested on 13 February 2018. The numbers above include the overachievement of 110.42%. No options and/or shares were held on 31 December 2018 and 2017 by persons related to the members of the Board of Directors and of the Executive Committee. 116 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements F.2. Options and SARs outstanding The following table lists all options and SARs outstanding as at 31 December 2018. This includes the SARs outstanding for the Executive Chairman and Executive Committee members shown in the tables on page 116 and all other staff eligible for options and SARs. Total number of Number of Exercise outstanding Number of Number of unvested price SARs/options/ vested vested SARs/ Grant year Plan USD STI shares SARs options STI shares 2008 2008 21.37 1,097 1,097 2008 2009 9.71 7,963 7,963 2009 2009 6.10 5,468 5,468 2009 2009 6.10 2,098 2,098 2009 2009 13.26 590 590 2009 2010 21.78 14,529 14,529 2010 2010 23.78 20,416 20,416 2010 2010 26.26 359 359 2011 2011 26.55 1,065 1,065 2011 2011 31.39 3,000 3,000 2011 2011 14.55 2,657 2,657 2011 2012 14.55 29,907 29,907 2012 2012 16.26 6,741 6,741 2012 2012 14.95 1,912 1,912 2012 2012 13.55 87,045 87,045 2012 2012 12.50 4,865 4,865 2013 2013 17.45 15,210 15,210 2013 2013 19.63 125,238 125,238 2013 2013 22.52 1,035 1,035 2013 2013 35.33 20,500 20,500 2014 2014 35.45 157,776 157,776 2014 2015 35.15 87,547 87,547 2015 2015 32.83 2,275 2,275 2015 2015 35.34 10,600 10,600 2015 2015 35.29 489,020 489,020 2016 2016 46.53 14,354 14,354 2016 2016 44.00 18,772 18,772 2016 2016 43.69 2,103,165 2,103,165 2016 2016 49.12 204,728 204,728 2016 2016 54.07 3,000 3,000 2016 2016 53.38 2,423 2,423 2016 2016 57.07 235,034 235,034 2016 2016 63.17 6,057 6,057 2016 2016 63.10 3,634 3,634 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 117 Governance Compensation Report continued Total number of Number of Exercise outstanding Number of Number of unvested price SARs/options/ vested vested SARs/ Grant year Plan USD STI shares SARs options STI shares 2016 2016 65.92 9,691 9,691 2017 2017 70.87 1,618,155 1,618,155 2017 2017 75.04 10,000 10,000 2017 2017 80.86 2,000 2,000 2017 2017 88.81 1,000 1,000 2017 2017 90.20 49,000 49,000 2017 2017 96.59 60,000 60,000 2017 2017 103.74 15,000 15,000 2017 2017 101.86 1,000 1,000 2018 2018 127.00 1,017,400 1,017,400 2018 2018 127.68 2,500 2,500 2018 2018 161.33 3,000 3,000 2018 2018 164.00 5,000 5,000 2018 2018 138.63 1,000 1,000 2018 2018 113.64 81,500 81,500 STI shares 2017 40,629 40,629 STI shares 2018 7,081 7,081 Total 6,614,036 1,095,913 3,000 5,515,123 The weighted average exercise price is USD 59.81. The SARs from the 2016 scheme vested on 12 February 2019. The numbers above for 2018 include the overachievement of 121%. 118 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Report of the statutory auditor on the Compensation Report Report of the statutory auditor to the General Meeting of Temenos AG, Geneva We have audited page 112 to page 114 of the accompanying compensation report of Temenos AG for the year ended 31 December 2018. Board of Directors’ responsibility The Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation and overall fair presentation of the remuneration report in accordance with Swiss law and the Ordinance against Excessive Compensation in Stock Exchange Listed Companies (Ordinance). The Board of Directors is also responsible for designing the remuneration system and defining individual remuneration packages. Auditor’s responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the accompanying remuneration report. We conducted our audit in accordance with Swiss Auditing Standards. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the compensation report complies with Swiss law and articles 14-16 of the Ordinance. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence on the disclosures made in the compensation report with regard to compensation, loans and credits in accordance with articles 14-16 of the Ordinance. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatements in the compensation report, whether due to fraud or error. This audit also includes evaluating the reasonableness of the methods applied to value components of remuneration, as well as assessing the overall presentation of the compensation report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Opinion In our opinion, the compensation report of Temenos AG for the year ended 31 December 2018 complies with Swiss law and articles 14-16 of the Ordinance. PricewaterhouseCoopers SA Mike Foley Yazen Jamjum Audit expert Audit expert Auditor in charge Geneva, 19 February 2019 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 119 Financial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 120 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Overview Performance Performance Operatingresponsibly Operating responsibly Governance Governance Financial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Report of the statutory auditor on the consolidated financial statements 122 Consolidated statement of profit or loss 126 Consolidated statements of other comprehensive income 127 Consolidated statement of financial position 128 Consolidated statement of cash flows 129 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 130 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 131 Report of the statutory auditor on the unconsolidated financial statements 177 Unconsolidated balance sheet 179 Unconsolidated income statement 180 Notes to the unconsolidated financial statements 181 Financial highlights 187 Information for investors 188 APPENDIX Temenos worldwide offices 189 Sources 193 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 121 Financial statements Report of the statutory auditor on the consolidated financial statements Report of the statutory auditor to the General Meeting of Temenos AG, Geneva REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Opinion We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Temenos AG and its subsidiaries (the Group), which comprise the consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2018 and the consolidated statement of profit or loss, consolidated statement of other comprehensive income, consolidated statement of changes in equity and consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended, and notes to the consolidated financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies. In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the consolidated financial position of the Group as at 31 December 2018 and its consolidated financial performance and its consolidated cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and comply with Swiss law. Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Swiss law, International Standards on Auditing (ISAs) and Swiss Auditing Standards. Our responsibilities under those provisions and standards are further described in the “Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated financial statements” section of our report. We are independent of the Group in accordance with the provisions of Swiss law and the requirements of the Swiss audit profession, as well as the IESBA Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Our audit approach Overview Materiality Overall Group materiality: USD 9,000,000 The Group audit team performed the audit over selected financial statement line items such as revenue, accounts receivables, contract assets and contract liabilities, cash balances, and capitalized development costs, in addition to auditing the consolidation which includes taxation, pension and share based compensation. We performed a full scope audit over one entity located in Switzerland and audits of selected financial statement line items were performed on eleven additional entities located in nine different countries. Our audit scope addressed all of the Group’s revenue, approximately 97% of the Group’s total assets and approximately 58% Audit scope of the Group’s total expenses. As key audit matters the following areas of focus have been identified: Key audit matters >> Software licensing revenue recognition >> Services revenue recognition >> Recoverability of account receivables and contract assets Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. Our audit opinion aims to provide reasonable assurance that the consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement. Misstatements may arise due to fraud or error. They are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the consolidated financial statements. Based on our professional judgment, we determined certain quantitative thresholds for materiality, including the overall Group materiality for the consolidated financial statements as a whole as set out in the table below. These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate, on the consolidated financial statements as a whole. Overall materiality USD 9,000,000 How we determined it 5% of profit before tax, rounded Rationale for the materiality benchmark applied We chose profit before tax as the benchmark because, in our view, it is the benchmark together with revenue against which the performance of the Group and the industry is most commonly measured, and is a generally accepted benchmark. We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements above USD 450,000 identified during our audit, as well as any misstatements below that amount which, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons. 122 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Audit scope We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the consolidated financial statements. In particular, we considered where subjective judgments were made; for example, in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including among other matters consideration of whether there was evidence of bias that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud. We tailored the scope of our audit in order to perform sufficient work to enable us to provide an opinion on the consolidated financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates. The Group audit team performed the audit over selected financial statement line items such as revenue, accounts receivables, contract assets and contract liabilities, cash balances, and capitalized development costs, in addition to auditing the consolidation, which includes taxation, pension and share based compensation. Furthermore, we performed a full scope audit over one entity located in Switzerland and audits of selected financial statement line items were performed on eleven additional entities located in nine different countries. We finally validated the compliance of the consolidated financial statements with IFRS and Swiss law. Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. Software licensing revenue recognition KEY AUDIT MATTER HOW OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED THE KEY AUDIT MATTER As at 31 December 2018, revenue from software licensing was USD 342 million. Firstly, we evaluated the compliance of Temenos’ accounting policies with IFRS 15 key considerations. We focused on this area because of the significance of license revenue and the risks related to the numerous inherent complexities and critical judgments involved in the As part of the adoption of IFRS 15, we obtained the schedule of cumulative measurement, timing and presentation of revenues from multi-element contracts found adjustments as at 1 January 2018 and evaluated it for completeness and accuracy in the software industry. by assessing whether it reflected appropriate considerations for the changes in the revenue recognition under IFRS 15. Transactions with customers often have “bundled” components that typically include license, implementation and/or development services and maintenance For all license deals that we considered to be individually significant and for a sample elements. The separation of these elements requires management to use significant of the remaining deals, we performed the following: estimates in relation to the determination of the fair value of each component. In addition, there are critical judgments in assessing the probability of collection and >> Inspected the existence of a signed version of the customer contract together with determining whether existing uncertainties and contingencies preclude license revenue evidence of software delivery. from being recognized. >> Read the contracts and assessed potential impact of any unusual clause on revenue recognition. When deemed necessary, we discussed the details of certain contracts There is a risk that license revenue is overstated or recognized prematurely due to with the commercial team who negotiated the deal to understand both the rationale either the inappropriate assessment of the risks and uncertainties involved and/or of certain clauses and also the customer’s perspective. When necessary, we also inappropriate allocation between the various components. discussed with internal legal counsel their interpretation of certain contractual terms to assess their impact on revenue recognition. There is also a risk that judgments or estimates in relation to license revenue >> Reviewed and evaluated the fair value allocations between the various elements of are not free from bias or that license revenue booked is manipulated to achieve the contract in accordance with Temenos’ revenue recognition policy and IFRS 15. financial targets. >> We assessed whether the options for future goods and services included in license agreements we reviewed represent material rights under IFRS 15. As described in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, IFRS 15 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” has come into effect as of 1 January 2018. IFRS 15 We performed cut-off testing procedures to ensure that revenue is recognized in the establishes a comprehensive framework for determining whether, how much and when correct reporting period by reference to the contract and evidence of delivery. revenue is recognized. The Group applied the modified retrospective method and the exemption provided by IFRS 15 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” not to We performed journal entry tests targeting license revenue deals with certain restate the comparative periods as a result of the IFRS 15 adoption. The key judgments characteristics and obtained evidence that substantiates the revenue recognized. involved in the transition were around the timing of revenue recognition of certain performance obligations, the assessment of options for future goods and services and We also looked for third party evidence to validate the authenticity of customer the impact of variable consideration. contracts. Finally, we performed a look-back analysis on management’s past judgments and estimates by comparing previous estimates with actuals both Refer to note 2.17 (accounting policies) and note 4 (critical accounting estimates and quantitatively and qualitatively. judgments) of the consolidated financial statements. We presented the results of our testing to the Audit Committee and highlighted deals involving significant judgments and estimates together with our view on those judgments and estimates made. Based on the work performed, we concluded that the critical judgments and estimates made by management were reasonable and the accounting for license revenue appropriate. Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 123 Financial statements Report of the statutory auditor on the consolidated financial statements continued Services revenue recognition KEY AUDIT MATTER HOW OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED THE KEY AUDIT MATTER As at 31 December 2018, services revenue was USD 154 million. We analyzed the quarterly and annual movements in the percentage of completion for a random selection of fixed price projects. For those projects where we identified We focused on this area because this is a material amount and because of the a significant variance in the percentage of completion or the total mandays estimated, significant estimates involved in determining the percentage of completion for fixed we investigated further to obtain evidence of the status of the project and the price service implementation projects combined with the enhanced risk involved in reasonableness of the manday estimates. We corroborated the information obtained medium to long-term projects. by reference to milestones achieved, invoices raised and cash received. In certain cases, we also discussed with the service project managers to understand the progress, Recognizing service revenue over time using the percentage of completion method difficulties associated with the implementation, if any, and likely future scenarios. requires management to estimate the total mandays of effort required at the start of the implementation period and the estimates to complete at every reporting period. In addition, we obtained a look-back analysis prepared by management for a There is a risk that total mandays for a given fixed price project are underestimated sample of projects that compares actual total mandays to the estimates made in prior which leads to recognizing service revenue prematurely or the risk that reductions in periods. We challenged management on the analysis performed and the explanations revenue for the period are unrecognized. provided and ensured that new projections built on these experiences. Refer to note 2.17 (accounting policies) and note 4 (critical accounting estimates and We selected a sample of fixed priced projects and tested the accuracy of the judgments) of the consolidated financial statements. percentage of completion calculation and the resulting service revenue recognized. The outcome of our procedures and the look back analysis were presented to, and discussed with, the Audit Committee. Based on the work performed, we concluded that the manday estimates made by management were reasonable and the accounting for service revenue appropriate. Recoverability of accounts receivables and contract assets KEY AUDIT MATTER HOW OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED THE KEY AUDIT MATTER As at 31 December 2018, accounts receivables and contract assets amounted to We reviewed management’s analysis for all projects with potential exposure at risk. USD 231 million and USD 37 million, respectively. This analysis includes background information of the customer, existing contractual relationships, balance outstanding, delays in collection, and operational issues We focused on this risk as the balances are material and there are many significant together with a detailed legal analysis. judgments involved in assessing recoverability of accounts receivables and contract assets in the software industry. This is especially the case as some of these balances In addition, we challenged management’s assessment of the recoverability of selected could be significant or overdue. accounts receivable and contract assets balances (significant and randomly selected) with license and service departments, project managers and senior management, as There are many factors that need to be considered when concluding that a balance appropriate. When deemed necessary, we also discussed certain potential exposures needs to be impaired including default or delinquency in payments, length of the with the internal legal counsel and agreed it to available confirmations from external outstanding balances and implementation difficulties that could result in future lawyers. concessions. In addition, some of the customers might also be undergoing restructuring, a change in strategy or management, or facing liquidity issues that undermine their We evaluated management’s assessment of whether the resulting impact of the intent or ability to pay the amounts due. recoverability of the receivable is a result of a credit default and therefore bad debt expense or a form of variable consideration that reduces revenue under IFRS 15. Given the complexity, size and length of certain implementation projects, there is risk that an impairment charge or a revenue reversal is not recognized timely and/or We confirmed selected material customer balances to verify their intention to settle the accurately. outstanding balance in the future. Refer to note 2.5 (accounting policies) and note 14 (trade and other receivables) of We also reviewed the aging of accounts receivables and obtained external market the consolidated financial statements. evidence confirming the lack of significant doubt about the financial stability for selected customers. We presented the results of our procedures to the Audit Committee. The level of the provision made against accounts receivables and contract assets was deemed appropriate and corresponds to the risks identified. Other information in the annual report The Board of Directors is responsible for the other information in the annual report. The other information comprises all information included in the annual report, but does not include the consolidated financial statements, the stand-alone financial statements and the compensation report of Temenos AG and our auditor’s reports thereon. The other information in the annual report is expected to be made available to us after the date of this auditor’s report. Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements does not cover the other information in the annual report and we do not and will not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information in the annual report when it becomes available and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the consolidated financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. 124 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Responsibilities of the Board of Directors for the consolidated financial statements The Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with IFRS and the provisions of Swiss law, and for such internal control as the Board of Directors determines is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the Board of Directors is responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Board of Directors either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with Swiss law, ISAs and Swiss Auditing Standards will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial statements. As part of an audit in accordance with Swiss law, ISAs and Swiss Auditing Standards, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also: >> Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. >> Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control. >> Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made. >> Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as a going concern. >> Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the consolidated financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. >> Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the Group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion. We communicate with the Board of Directors or its relevant committee regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. We also provide the Board of Directors or its relevant committee with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. From the matters communicated with the Board of Directors or its relevant committee, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. Report on other legal and regulatory requirements In accordance with article 728a paragraph 1 item 3 CO and Swiss Auditing Standard 890, we confirm that an internal control system exists which has been designed for the preparation of consolidated financial statements according to the instructions of the Board of Directors. We recommend that the consolidated financial statements submitted to you be approved. PricewaterhouseCoopers SA Mike Foley Yazen Jamjum Audit expert Audit expert Auditor in charge Geneva, 19 February 2019 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 125 Financial statements Consolidated statement of profit or loss For the year ended 31 December 2018 2017* USD 000 USD 000 REVENUES Software licensing 341,555 248,541 SaaS & subscription 31,265 66,244 Total software licensing 372,820 314,785 Maintenance 314,353 274,794 Services 153,688 145,784 Total revenues (note 7) 840,861 735,363 OPERATING EXPENSES Cost of sales (229,191) (206,903) Sales and marketing (144,528) (123,637) General and administrative (87,730) (79,194) Other operating expenses (160,642) (147,324) Total operating expenses (note 9) (622,091) (557,058) OPERATING PROFIT 218,770 178,305 Finance income 3,117 1,859 Finance costs (26,486) (19,216) Finance costs – net (note 11) (23,369) (17,357) Profit before taxation 195,401 160,948 Taxation (note 20) (27,173) (22,542) Profit for the year 168,228 138,406 Attributable to: Equity holders of the Company 168,228 138,406 Non-controlling interest – – 168,228 138,406 Earnings per share (in USD) (note 12): basic 2.43 1.98 diluted 2.31 1.90 * Comparative information is not restated based on transition method chosen by the Group on application of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 at 1 January 2018. Notes on pages 131 to 176 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 126 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Consolidated statement of other comprehensive income For the year ended 31 December 2018 2017* USD 000 USD 000 Profit for the year 168,228 138,406 Other comprehensive income: Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Remeasurements of post employment defined benefit obligations (note 22) (2,290) 814 (2,290) 814 Items that may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss Available-for-sale financial assets (note 25) – (18) Cash flow hedges (note 25) 6,782 (3,351) Currency translation differences (note 25) (32,883) 41,196 (26,101) 37,827 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax (28,391) 38,641 TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR 139,837 177,047 Attributable to: Equity holders of the Company 139,837 177,047 Non-controlling interest – – 139,837 177,047 * Comparative information is not restated based on transition method chosen by the Group on application of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 at 1 January 2018. Notes on pages 131 to 176 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 127 Financial statements Consolidated statement of financial position As at 31 December 2018 2017* USD 000 USD 000 ASSETS Current assets Cash and cash equivalents (note 13) 287,439 167,855 Trade and other receivables (note 14) 283,395 258,632 Other financial assets (note 15) 6,579 3,967 Total current assets 577,413 430,454 Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment (note 16) 18,021 16,385 Intangible assets (note 17) 1,008,873 795,961 Trade and other receivables (note 14) 10,987 10,379 Other financial assets (note 15) 15,423 161 Deferred tax assets (note 20) 17,663 21,943 Total non-current assets 1,070,967 844,829 Total assets 1,648,380 1,275,283 LIABILITIES AND EQUITY Current liabilities Trade and other payables (note 18) 163,052 124,652 Other financial liabilities (note 15) 2,234 3,184 Deferred revenue (note 8) 262,861 232,489 Income tax liabilities 38,568 41,042 Borrowings (note 19) 107,797 5,885 Provisions for other liabilities and charges (note 21) 1,259 3,085 Total current liabilities 575,771 410,337 Non-current liabilities Other financial liabilities (note 15) 19,385 27,752 Borrowings (note 19) 706,278 434,299 Provisions for other liabilities and charges (note 21) 261 238 Deferred tax liabilities (note 20) 37,594 15,408 Retirement benefit obligations (note 22) 10,320 7,736 Total non-current liabilities 773,838 485,433 Total liabilities 1,349,609 895,770 Capital and reserves attributable to the Company’s equity holders Share capital 233,217 232,192 Treasury shares (264,608) (197,750) Share premium and other reserves (note 24) (289,095) (186,287) Other equity (note 25) (121,491) (93,341) Retained earnings 740,748 624,699 298,771 379,513 Non-controlling interest – – Total equity 298,771 379,513 Total liabilities and equity 1,648,380 1,275,283 * Comparative information is not restated based on transition method chosen by the Group on application of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 at 1 January 2018. Notes on pages 131 to 176 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 128 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Consolidated statement of cash flows For the year ended 31 December 2018 2017* USD 000 USD 000 CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES Profit before taxation 195,401 160,948 Adjustments: Property, plant and equipment depreciation, intangible asset amortization and impairment of financial assets 95,726 96,083 Loss on retirements of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (note 16 and 17) 14 220 Cost of share options (note 26) 38,018 32,661 Foreign exchange (gain)/loss on non-operating activities (5,495) 3,323 Interest expenses, net (note 11) 11,847 11,053 Net loss/(gain) from financial instruments (note 11) 2,064 1,254 Other finance costs (note 11) 10,605 3,811 Other non-cash items 336 1,196 Changes in: Trade and other receivables (35,294) (18,588) Trade and other payables, provisions and retirement benefit obligations 27,194 5,645 Deferred revenues 24,638 2,100 Cash generated from operations 365,054 299,706 Income taxes paid (20,880) (11,930) Net cash generated from operating activities 344,174 287,776 CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES Purchase of property, plant and equipment (8,305) (5,787) Purchase of intangible assets (3,692) (4,646) Capitalized development costs (note 17) (52,625) (50,468) Acquisitions of subsidiary, net of cash acquired (note 6) (242,462) (49,780) Investment in equity securities (note 15) (15,000) – Settlement of financial instruments (3,885) (2,276) Interest received 1,760 1,735 Net cash used in investing activities (324,209) (111,222) CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES Dividend paid (note 27) (46,134) (39,506) Acquisition of treasury shares (205,578) (189,624) Proceeds from borrowings (note 19) 200,000 – Repayments of borrowings (92) (11,576) Proceeds from issuance of bond 174,418 148,781 Repayment of bond – (105,401) Interest payments (12,663) (12,221) Payment of other financing costs (8,953) (2,603) Net cash generated/(used in) financing activities 100,998 (212,150) Effect of exchange rate changes (1,379) 9,111 Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents in the year 119,584 (26,485) Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 167,855 194,340 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 287,439 167,855 * Comparative information is not restated based on transition method chosen by the Group on application of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 at 1 January 2018. Notes on pages 131 to 176 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 129 Financial statements Consolidated statement of changes in equity For the year ended 31 December Share premium and Share Treasury other reserves Other equity Retained capital shares (note 24) (note 25) earnings Total USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 Balance at 1 January 2017 226,058 (66,487) (154,249) (131,168) 524,985 399,139 Profit for the year – – – – 138,406 138,406 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax – – – 37,827 814 38,641 Total comprehensive income – – – 37,827 139,220 177,047 Dividend paid – – – – (39,506) (39,506) Cost of share options (note 26) – – 32,661 – – 32,661 Exercise of share-based payment transactions 6,134 58,361 (64,495) – – – Acquisition of treasury shares – (189,624) – – – (189,624) Costs associated with equity transactions – – (204) – – (204) 6,134 (131,263) (32,038) 37,827 99,714 (19,626) Balance at 31 December 2017 232,192 (197,750) (186,287) (93,341) 624,699 379,513 Adjustment on initial application of IFRS 15 (net of tax) – – – – (3,755) (3,755) Adjusted balance at 1 January 2018 232,192 (197,750) (186,287) (93,341) 620,944 375,758 Profit for the year – – – – 168,228 168,228 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax – – – (26,101) (2,290) (28,391) Total comprehensive income – – – (26,101) 165,938 139,837 Dividend paid (note 27) – – – – (46,134) (46,134) Hedging gains transferred to deferred revenues – – – (2,049) – (2,049) Cost of share options (note 26) – – 38,018 – – 38,018 Exercise of share-based payment transactions (note 24) 1,025 138,720 (139,745) – – – Acquisition of treasury shares – (205,578) – – – (205,578) Costs associated with equity transactions – – (1,081) – – (1,081) 1,025 (66,858) (102,808) (28,150) 119,804 (76,987) Balance at 31 December 2018 233,217 (264,608) (289,095) (121,491) 740,748 298,771 * Comparative information is not restated based on transition method chosen by the Group on application of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 at 1 January 2018. Notes on pages 131 to 176 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 130 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 December 2018 1. GENERAL INFORMATION Temenos AG formerly named as ‘Temenos Group AG’ (‘the Company’) was incorporated in Glarus, Switzerland on 7 June 2001 as a stock corporation (Aktiengesellschaft). Since 26 June 2001 the shares of Temenos AG have been publicly traded on the SIX Swiss Exchange. The registered office is located at 2 Rue de L’Ecole-de-Chimie, 1205 Geneva, Switzerland. Further to approval by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting held on 15 May 2018, the Company’s name was changed from ‘Temenos Group AG’ to ‘Temenos AG’. The Company and its subsidiaries (the ‘Temenos Group’ or the ‘Group’) are engaged in the development, marketing and sale of integrated banking software systems. The Group is also involved in supporting the implementation of the systems at various client locations around the world as well as in offering help desk support services to existing users of Temenos software systems. The client base consists of mostly banking and other financial services institutions. These consolidated financial statements have been approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 12 February 2019. 2. ACCOUNTING POLICIES The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below. These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated. 2.1 Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’). The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except where IFRS explicitly requires use of other values. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with the IRFS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also requires management to exercise its judgment in the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies. The areas involving a higher degree of judgment or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estates are significant to the consolidated financial statements, are disclosed in note 4. Standards, amendments and interpretations relevant to the Group’s operation and adopted by the Group as at 1 January 2018 IFRS 9 ‘ Financial instruments ‘ As of 1 January 2018, the Group has adopted IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’. This new standard replaces the existing guidance in IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’ and introduces revised guidance on the classification, recognition, derecognition and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities as well as a new expected credit losses model for calculating impairment on financial assets measured at amortized cost. It also introduces new rules for hedge accounting. The Group has applied the modified retrospective approach so that prior periods need not to be restated and the effect of the initial application was recognized as an adjustment to the opening retained earnings. For hedge accounting, the Group applied this standard prospectively. Other then the new disclosure requirements and the rename of the classification categories, the adoption of the new standard had no effect on the Group’s policies related to the measurement of the Group’s financial instruments. The following table presents the reclassification of financial instruments on adoption of IFRS 9 at 1 January 2018. Reclassifications of financial instruments on adoption of IFRS 9 at 1 January 2018 Measurement category Original (IAS 39) New IFRS 9 FINANCIAL ASSETS Cash and cash equivalents Loans and receivables/Amortized cost Amortized cost Trade and other receivables Loans and receivables/Amortized cost Amortized cost Derivatives instruments held for trading Fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL) Fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL) Derivatives instruments used for hedging Fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL) Fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL) FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Trade and other payables Amortized cost Amortized cost Borrowings Amortized cost Amortized cost Derivatives instruments held for trading Fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL) Fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL) Derivatives instruments used for hedging Fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL) Fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL) The Group has elected to adopt the new standard for hedge accounting. As the hedging relationships that were existing at the initial application met the requirements according to IFRS 9, the adoption of the standard had no effect in the Group’s financial statements and policies. The effect of introduction of the expected credit loss impairment model on opening retained earnings was not significant, since the Group’s historical default rate due to credit risk was rather limited in light of its customer profile. Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 131 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 December 2018 continued 2. ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 2.1 Basis of preparation continued IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from contracts with Customers‘ As of 1 January 2018, IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from contracts with Customers’ has come in to effect. The new standard replaces IAS 18 ‘Revenue’, IAS 11 ‘Construction Contracts’ and IFRIC 13 ‘Customer Loyalty Programmes’. It establishes principles for recognizing, measuring and reporting information about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. Under IFRS 15, revenue from contracts with customers is recognized based on a five-step model and the transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation on the basis of the relative stand-alone selling prices. Revenue is no longer recognized upon the transfer of risks and rewards but when or as performance obligations are satisfied by transferring control of a promised good or service to a customer. The standard also provides guidance on the treatment of any costs to obtain and/or fulfill a contract that may be recognized as assets. The Group has adopted IFRS 15 effective 1 January 2018 applying the modified retrospective application, and chose to apply IFRS 15 on all contracts that are not completed at date of initial application. The Group also elected the practical expedient to apply the contract modifications guidance to contract modification that occur before the date of initial application. Following the adoption of the new standard, the Group has updated its accounting policies for revenue recognition detailed on note 2.17. The transition effect into the new revenue recognition standard is accounted by recognizing the cumulative effect of initially applying the standard as an opening balance sheet adjustment to equity at 1 January 2018 without any adjustment to prior year comparative information and it’s continued to be reported under IAS 18. The cumulative effect of policy change was a reduction of equity of USD 3.8 million (net of tax). The following are the main areas which has an impact on application of IFRS 15: >> Subscription software contracts are currently recognized rateably over the life of the contract. Following adoption of IFRS 15, the Group will separate out the revenue due under licensing performance obligations and the revenue due under maintenance service obligations. The revenue due under licensing performance obligations will be recognized at the point control of the software is transferred to the client. The revenue due under maintenance service obligations will be recognized rateably over the life of the contract. In effect, the total amount of revenue from subscription contracts has not changed, only the pattern of recognition of revenue over the term of contract has been modified. >> With the change in subscription software contracts, financing has become a factor in a small number of contracts where the financing component is considered significant to the value of that contract. Under IFRS 15 if some of the consideration for a performance obligation is due greater than 1 year from the point the performance obligation was satisfied, then financing is to be assessed. If the financing is a significant component then the total transaction price is discounted and the difference is recorded as an interest income. >> Non-generic development fees were previously recognized on a percentage of completion basis. Under IFRS 15, licensed development revenue is recognized upon delivery of the software, with any costs incurred to fulfill the contract to be deferred until the relevant revenue is recognized. This results in some deferral of development revenue recognition and associated cost. >> Under IFRS 15 standard optional additional copies of the software, renewals and additional modules or products might give rise to a material right. In these cases a performance obligation for the material right is identified and consideration allocated, based on standalone selling price, is assigned to the performance obligation. The transaction price allocation to the material right is then recognized as revenue once the option is exercised or lapsed. Under our current accounting policies, such options do not have an impact on the amount or pattern of revenue recognized. >> Under IAS 18, the Group would consider all amounts in a contract that are contractually fixed when making the initial revenue recognition assessment. IFRS 15 requires the assessment of potential variable consideration from the outset, which could include such items as right of refund, credits, price concessions, performance bonuses and penalties. This results in deferral of revenue previously recognized. The following tables summarizes the impact of adopting IFRS 15 on the Group’s consolidated statement of profit and loss for year ended 31 December 2018 and statement of financial position as at 31 December 2018 for each of the lines affected. Impact on the Group’s consolidated statement of profit or loss for year ended 31 December 2018 Amounts without Impact of adoption of As reported IFRS 15 IFRS 15 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 Software licensing 341,555 (34,130) 307,425 SaaS & subscription 31,265 44,235 75,500 Total software licensing 372,820 10,105 382,925 Maintenance 314,353 (6,832) 307,521 Services 153,688 2,472 156,160 Total revenues 840,861 5,745 846,606 Operating expenses (622,091) (4,733) (626,824) Operating profit 218,770 1,012 219,782 Finance cost – net (23,369) – (23,369) Profit before taxation 195,401 1,012 196,413 Taxation (27,173) (88) (27,261) Profit for the period 168,228 924 169,152 132 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Impact on Group’s consolidation statement of financial position as at 31 December 2018 Amounts without Impact of adoption of As reported IFRS 15 IFRS 15 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 Current Asset Trade and other receivables 283,395 5,515 288,910 Deferred tax assets 17,663 (525) 17,138 Current liabilities Deferred revenues 262,861 908 263,769 Deferred tax liabilities 37,594 (596) 36,998 Equity Retained earnings 740,748 4,678 745,426 IFRS 2 (standard) ‘Share-based Payment’, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. This amendment provides additional guidance on the accounting for cash-settled share-based payments and add an exception that provides equity-settled accounting where the settlement of share-based payment awards is split between equity instruments issued to the employee and a cash payment to the tax authorities. This amendment did not have any impact on the Group’s financial statements since the Group’s share-base payment transactions are all qualified as equity settled share-based payments. The Group has applied the amendment for the financial reporting period commencing on 1 January 2018. IFRIC 22 (new interpretation) ‘Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration’, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. This Interpretation clarifies how to determine the date of the transaction for the purpose of determining the exchange rate to use on initial recognition of the related asset, expense or income (or part of it) on the derecognition of a non-monetary asset or non-monetary liability arising from the payment or receipt of advance consideration in a foreign currency. This interpretation did not have any impact on the Group’s financial statements since the Group already measure the derecognition of its related non-monetary asset or non-monetary liability in accordance with rules of this new interpretation. The Group has applied this amendment for the financial reporting period commencing on 1 January 2018. Standards, amendments and interpretations relevant to the Group’s operation that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group The following standards and amendments have been published and are mandatory for the Group’s accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019 or later periods, but the Group has not early adopted them. Unless otherwise indicated, these publications are not expected to have any significant impact on the Group’s financial statements: IFRS 16 (standard) ‘Leases’, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019 and replaces IAS 17 ‘Leases’. The Group adopted the standard per its effective date of 1 January 2019, using modified retrospective approach. IFRS 16 primarily changes lease accounting for leases. Lease agreements will give rise to recognition of an asset representing the right to use the leased asset and an obligation for future lease payables. The Group has identified all the leases that are currently in use and majority of these leases are for office rentals. Application of IFRS 16, will result in an increase in non-current assets of USD 47-50 million and borrowings of USD 52-55 million with a reduction in equity of less than USD 3 million. It would be accounted as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings. The Group does not expect a significant impact on net profit in 2019 however, there will be a reallocation of its current operating lease expense between operating profit and financing expenses. The Group will take exemptions to elect not to apply IFRS 16 requirements to short term leases and low value leases. In applying IFRS 16 for the first time, the Group has used the following practical expedients permitted by the standard: >> accounting for operating leases with remaining lease term of less than 12 months as at 1 January 2018 as short term leases >> the exclusion of initial direct cost for the measurement of the right-of-use-asset at the date of initial application IFRIC 23 (interpretation) ‘Uncertainty over Income tax Treatments’, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019. The interpretation addresses the accounting for income taxes when tax treatments involve uncertainty that affects the application of IAS 12. The interpretation does not apply to taxes or levies outside the scope of IAS 12, nor does it specifically include requirements relating to interest and penalties associated with uncertain tax treatments. The Group does not expect this amendment to have an significant impact on the Group financial statements. The Group will apply this amendment for the financial reporting period commencing on 1 January 2019. IAS 19 (amendment) ‘Employee benefit‘ effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019. The amendment provides guidance in connection with accounting for plan amendment, curtailments and settlements. The amendment requires use of current assumptions to determine service cost and to remeasure its net defined benefit liability or asset when a plan event such as amendment, curtailments or settlement occurs. The Group will apply this amendment for the financial reporting period commencing on 1 January 2019. IFRS 9 (amendment) ‘Financial instruments‘, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019, with earlier application permitted. This amendment enables entities to measure at amortized cost some prepayable financial assets with negative compensation. The Group will apply this amendment for the financial reporting period commencing on 1 January 2019. Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 133 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 December 2018 continued 2. ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 2.1 Basis of preparation continued Standards, amendments and interpretations relevant to the Group’s operation that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group continued 2015-2017 cycle annual improvements (amendments), effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019. The Group will apply these amendments for the financial reporting period commencing on 1 January 2019. IFRS 3 (amendment) ‘Business combination’, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2020. The amendment clarifies the definition of a business and also permit a simplified assessment of whether an acquired set of activities and assets is merely a group of assets rather than a business. The Group will apply the new definition of business to assess any future acquisitions by the Group. The Group will apply this amendment for the financial reporting period commencing on 1 January 2020. IAS 1 ‘Presentation of financial statements‘ and IAS 8 ‘Accounting policies, changes in accounting estimates and errors’ (amendment), effective for annual period beginning on or after 1 January 2020. This amendment clarifies the definition of material and its application by aligning the wording of definition of material across all IFRS standards. This amendment would assist the Group to make materiality judgments going forward. The Group will apply this amendment for the financial reporting period commencing on 1 January 2020. 2.2 Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of Temenos AG (‘the Company’) as well as its subsidiaries. Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are all entities (including structured entities) over which the Group has control. The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group. They are deconsolidated from the date when control ceases. The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group. The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair value of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity interest issued by the Group. The consideration transferred also includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement. Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date. On an acquisition-by-acquisition basis, the Group recognizes any non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the acquiree’s net assets. Goodwill is measured as the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred and the fair value of non-controlling interest over the fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed. If the consideration is lower than the fair value of the net assets acquired, the difference is recognized in profit or loss. Any contingent consideration is recognized at fair value at the acquisition date. Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration is recognized in profit or loss in accordance with IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’. Contingent consideration that is classified as equity is not remeasured, and its subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity. Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries without loss of control Transactions with non-controlling interests that do not result in loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions. The difference between fair value of any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets is recorded in equity. Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity. Disposal of subsidiaries When the Group ceases to have control, any retained interest in the entity is remeasured to its fair value, with the change in carrying amount recognized in profit or loss. The fair value is the initial carrying amount for the purposes of subsequently accounting for the retained interest as an associate, joint venture or financial asset. In addition, any amounts previously recognized in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss. 2.3 Foreign currency Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s subsidiaries are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates (the ‘functional currency’). The consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars, which is the Group’s presentation currency and the currency in which the majority of the Group’s transactions are denominated. The Company’s functional currency is Swiss francs. Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the respective functional currencies using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. When the Group pays or receives consideration in advance in foreign currency the date of transactions is the date when the consideration is realized. Foreign exchange differences arising from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at the reporting date of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognized in profit or loss, except when deferred in equity as qualifying cash flow hedges and qualifying net investment hedges. The financial statements of the Group’s subsidiaries (none of which has the currency of a hyperinflationary economy) with a different functional currency than the presentation currency are translated as follows: >> Assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the date of the reporting period; >> Income and expenses for each statement presenting profit or loss and other comprehensive income are translated on a monthly basis at the average exchange rates of the month (unless the average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the rate on the dates of the transactions); >> Equity items are translated at the historical rates; and >> All resulting exchange differences are recognized in other comprehensive income. When a foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold, exchange differences that were recorded in equity are recognized in profit or loss as part of the gain or loss on sale. Gains or losses resulting from long term intragroup balances for which settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future are treated as a net investment in foreign operations (i.e. quasi-equity loans). The gains or losses recognized in the separate financial statements of the subsidiary are reclassified as cumulative translation adjustment to other comprehensive income in the Group’s consolidated financial statements. Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the acquired entity. They are recognized in the functional currency of the acquired entity and translated to the presentation currency using the closing rate. 134 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements 2.4 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents includes cash on hand, bank current accounts, time deposits and short term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and subject to negligible risks of change in value. As the Group’s objective and business model are to hold this asset to collect the contractual cash flows, cash and cash equivalents are initially measured at fair value and subsequently measured at amortized costs. Cash and cash equivalents are subject to the impairment requirements of IFRS 9. Since this asset is substantially held with reputable major institutions with an ‘investment grade’ or similar rating and the period over which the Group is exposed is very short, the Group applies the low credit risk option and, therefore, the Group allocates this asset to the stage 1 of the credit loss model. Loss allowance is then measured at an amount equal to 12-month expected credit losses. 2.5 Trade and other receivables Trade receivables and contract assets Trade receivables are recognized initially at the transaction price or at fair value if they contain a significant financing components. They are subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method as the Group’s objective and business model are to hold this asset to collect the contractual cash flows. Contract assets represents consideration which is conditional upon factors other then passage of time. They are initially recognized and subsequently measured as per the provisions of IFRS 15. The Group applies the IFRS 9 simplified approach to measure expected credit losses which uses lifetime expected credit loss allowance for all trade receivable including trade receivable with significant financing components, and contract assets. The Group exercises judgment in determining expected credit loss allowance. In this judgment, the Group identifies default rate by analyzing the historical experience with credit losses, considering it to represent a reasonable approximation for future expected defaults and apply to the current receivables. The Group also takes into consideration forward looking factors, including changes in the overall economic environment or changes in regulation and if material reflects these in the expected credit loss allowance. A credit impairment is recognized when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivable. Evidence of impairment includes significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganization. The carrying amount of the asset is either reduced through the use of an allowance account or directly written off when there is no expectation of future recovery. The expense from expected credit loss allowance as well as from credit impaired debtors is recognized in profit or loss within ‘Sales and marketing’. Subsequent recoveries are credited in the same account previously used to recognize the impairment charge. Non-current trade receivables represent balances expected to be recovered after 12 months. Other receivables Other receivables include other receivables (financial assets) and other assets (non-financial assets). Other receivables (financial assets) represent receivables raised from transactions outside the ordinary activities of the Group. As the Group’s objective and business model are to hold this type of asset to collect the contractual cash flows, they are initially measured at fair value and subsequently measured at amortized costs. Interest income, foreign exchange gain or loss and impairment are recognized in profit or loss within ‘Finance costs-net’. When the impact of applying the effective interest method is not significant, the gross carrying amount equals to the contractual amount or the fair value at initial recognition. Balances to be collected after 12 months from the reporting period are presented as non-current. The Group applies the same impairment policy that are used to measure the expected credit loss for its trade receivables. Other assets (non-financial assets) primarily represent prepayments, contract costs according to IFRS 15 and statutory accruals. They are reported as current assets. 2.6 Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation. Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the item. Depreciation on assets is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their cost over their estimated useful lives, as follows (in years): Buildings 50 Furniture and fixtures 10 Office equipment 5 IT equipment* 4 Vehicles 4 * Computer software separately acquired is depreciated over the shorter of the license term and four years. Leasehold improvements are depreciated over the shorter of the remaining lease term and useful life (ten years). The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted if necessary at each reporting date. An asset’s carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount. Repairs and maintenance are charged to profit or loss as incurred. Gains or losses on disposals are determined by comparing the consideration received or receivable with the carrying amount and are recognized within ‘General and administrative’ in profit or loss unless otherwise specified. Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 135 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 December 2018 continued 2. ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 2.7 Intangible assets Goodwill Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries and represents the excess of the consideration transferred and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed. Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets. Goodwill is tested annually for impairment. The carrying amount is allocated to the cash-generating unit (CGU) that is expected to benefit from the synergies of the business combination. CGU to which the Goodwill is allocated represents the lowest level at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes. The carrying value of the CGU is then compared to the higher of its fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use. Any impairment attributed to the goodwill is recognized immediately as an expense and is not subsequently reversed. Computer software Software licenses separately acquired are capitalized when the Group can demonstrate that: >> It controls the asset; >> It is probable that the expected future economic benefits that are attributable to the asset will flow to the Group; and >> The cost of the asset can be reliably measured. The cost of the asset comprises its purchase price (including non-refundable purchase taxes) and any directly attributable cost of preparing the asset for its intended use. The cost of the asset is amortized using the straight-line method over its estimated useful life. Software technologies acquired through business combinations are initially measured at fair value and then amortized using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives. Customer-related intangible asset Customer-related intangible assets are assets acquired through business combinations. They are initially measured at fair value and then amortized using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives. The assessment of useful life is set out at the time of acquisition, specific for each acquisition. Currently reported customer-related intangible asset have useful life between 6 and 13 years. Internally generated software development The Group follows a strategy of investing a substantial part of its revenues in research and development work which is directed towards the enhancement of its product platforms. The costs associated with the development of new or substantially improved products or modules are capitalized when the following criteria are met: >> Technical feasibility to complete the development; >> Management intent and ability to complete the product and use or sell it; >> The likelihood of success is probable; >> Availability of technical and financial resources to complete the development phase; >> Costs can be reliably measured; and >> Probable future economic benefits can be demonstrated. Directly attributable development costs that are capitalized include the employee costs and an appropriate portion of relevant overheads. Directly attributable development costs previously recognized as an expense are not recognized as an asset in a subsequent period. Development expenditures that are not directly attributable are recognized as an expense when incurred. Internally generated software development costs are amortized using the straight-line method after the product is available for distribution. Development costs related to architecture developments are amortized over a five-year period and development costs related to functional developments are amortized over a three year period. 2.8 Impairment of non-financial assets Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortization and are tested annually for impairment. Assets that are subject to amortization are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognized for the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount, which is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and value in use. For the purpose of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows. Non-financial assets other than goodwill that suffered an impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date. 2.9 Taxation The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognized in profit or loss, except to the extent that it relates to items recognized in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. In this case the tax is also recognized in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively. The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date in the countries where the Group’s subsidiaries and associates operate and generate taxable income. Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation. It establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities. Deferred income tax is recognized, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the Group’s financial statements. However, the deferred income tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss. Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realized or the deferred income tax liability is settled. 136 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Deferred income tax assets are recognized to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilized. Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis. The Group incurs withholding tax in various jurisdictions. An assessment is made to assess the ability to recover these withholding taxes against the normal tax liabilities occurring within the Group, and a provision is made to the extent that withholding tax is not recoverable. 2.10 Provisions Provisions are recognized when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate of the amount can be made. Where the Group expects a provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance contract, the reimbursement is recognized as a separate asset but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain. When the effect of the time value is material, provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pretax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the obligation. The increase in the provision due to passage of time is recognized as an interest expense within ‘Finance costs’. A provision for restructuring is recognized when the Group has approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan, and the restructuring has either commenced or has been announced to those affected by it. A provision for onerous lease is recognized when the expected benefits to be derived from a lease are lower than the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract. 2.11 Borrowings Borrowings are initially recognized at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently measured at amortized cost. Effective interest costs are recognized within ‘Finance costs’ in profit or loss over the period of the relevant instrument. Fees directly attributable to the establishment of a financing facility are recognized as a prepayment for liquidity services that is subsequently amortized within ‘Finance costs’ over the life of the instrument. Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the reporting date. 2.12 Leases Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases. Finance leases are capitalized at the lease’s commencement at the lower of the fair value of the leased equipment or the present value of the minimum lease payments. The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included as liabilities in the statement of financial position. The interest elements of the lease obligations are charged to profit or loss over the period of the lease so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period. The property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset (note 2.6) and the remaining lease term. All other leases are classified as operating leases. Payments made under operating leases are charged to profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 2.13 Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or other instruments are reported within share premium (note 24), net of tax, from the proceeds. Where any subsidiary of the Group purchases the Company’s shares (treasury shares), the consideration paid (including any directly attributable incremental costs) is presented as a deduction from equity. Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received (net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects) is recognized as an increase in equity and the resulting gains or losses are presented within share premium (note 24). 2.14 Trade payables Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from suppliers. Accounts payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less. If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities. Trade payables are recognized initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortized costs using the effective interest method. The related interest expense is recognized in profit or loss within ‘Finance costs’. Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 137 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 December 2018 continued 2. ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 2.15 Employee share-based payments The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based compensation plans, under which the entity receives services from employees as consideration for equity instruments of the Group. The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the instruments is recognized as an expense. The total amount to be expensed is determined by reference to the fair value of the instrument granted: >> Including any market performance conditions; >> Excluding the impact of any service and non-market performance vesting conditions (for example, profitability, sales growth targets and remaining an employee of the entity over a specified time period). Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of instruments that are expected to vest. The total expense is recognized over the vesting period, which is the period over which all of the specified vesting conditions are to be satisfied. At the end of each reporting period, the Group revises its estimates of the number of instruments that are expected to vest based on the non-market vesting conditions. It recognizes the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in profit or loss, with a corresponding adjustment to equity. When the instruments are exercised, the Group issues new shares or re-issues treasury shares. The consideration received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital (nominal value) and share premium and capital reserves. 2.16 Employee benefits Pension obligations The Group operates various pension schemes including both defined benefit and defined contribution plans. A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity. The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits relating to the employee’s service in the current and prior periods. A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that is not a defined contribution plan. Typically defined benefit plans define an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation. The liability recognized in the statement of financial position in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligations at the end of the reporting period less the fair value of plan assets. The defined benefit obligations are calculated annually by actuaries using the projected unit credit method. The present value of the defined benefit obligations is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability. For currencies where there is no deep market in such high quality corporate bonds, the market yields on government bonds that are consistent with the currency and the estimated terms of the post-employment benefit obligations shall be used. When a surplus in a plan exists, the Group measures the net benefit asset at the lower of the surplus and the present value of the future economic benefits available to the Group in the form of a reduction in future contributions or a cash refund. Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to equity in other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise. Past-service costs are recognized immediately in profit or loss. For defined contribution plans, the relevant contributions are recognized as personnel costs when they are due. Once the contributions have been paid, the Group has no further payment obligations. Prepaid contributions are recognized as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available. Other post-employment obligations Some subsidiaries provide other post-retirement benefits to their retirees (e.g. gratuities). The entitlement of those benefits is usually conditional on the employee completing a specific length of service. The expected costs of these benefits are accrued over the period of employment using actuarial assumptions. Actuarial gains or losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to equity in other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise. Termination benefits Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated by the Group before the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits. The Group recognizes termination benefits at the earlier of the following dates: (a) when the Group can no longer withdraw the offer of those benefits; and (b) when the entity recognizes costs for a restructuring that is within IAS 37 ‘Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets’ and involves the payment of termination benefits. In the case of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy, the termination benefits are measured based on the number of employees expected to accept the offer. Benefits falling due more than 12 months after the end of the reporting period are discounted to their present value. 2.17 Revenue recognition The Group derives revenue from following four main sources: Software License Software license revenues represent all fees earned from granting customers licenses to use the Group’s software, either through an initial license or through the purchase of additional modules or user rights, but excludes any amounts that are related to maintenance. For software license arrangements that do not require significant modification or customization of the underlying software, revenue is recognized at the point the software is delivered, functional and control has been passed to the customer. Temenos includes software that is either sold on a term basis or perpetual basis and includes software licenses that are sold on a subscription payment basis. Software developments and customizations are included within this revenue line and are recognized when they meet the same criteria as the licensed software. SaaS Software as a Service (SaaS) revenue is earned through the use of Temenos software to provide a service to the customer, whereby the customer does not have the ability to take infrastructure of the software under a licensed arrangement. This includes the support and development of the software as well as the hosting infrastructure. The hosting infrastructure in the arrangement may be Temenos’ own infrastructure or that of a third party hosting infrastructure that Temenos has engaged with. 138 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Maintenance Software maintenance is included in most software license arrangements and is generally priced as a percentage of the initial software license fees. Maintenance provides customers with rights to unspecified software product upgrades, maintenance enhancements and access to the help desk during the term of the support period and is recognized rateably on a straight-line basis over the term of the arrangement. Services Software implementation and support services represents income from consulting, training and implementation services sold separately under services contracts. Fixed-price arrangements are accounted for over time on a percentage-of-completion basis using the inputs method. Time and Material contracts are recognized as utilized by the client. The IFRS 15 requires estimates and judgments to be made and consistently applied by the Group in accounting for the revenue from contracts with customers. The areas that require estimates and judgments by the Group are detailed below: Identification of Contract Temenos often enters in to multiple contracts with a customer and will assess these for the need to combine if the contracts are negotiated in and around the same time, are for the same economic purpose or are dependent upon one another. Initial/master agreements often have additional purchases, addendum or terms modified throughout their term. At each point a contract is modified, Temenos assesses the contract under the standard to determine if modifications are treated as a modification or a separate contract. Temenos makes an assessment initially to determine if the customer has the ability and intent to pay the consideration in the contract. Should Temenos determine the customer doesn’t meet either of these criteria then Temenos does not believe it is in a position to recognize revenue from this contract until such a time as the customer has both the ability and intent or Temenos has been paid in full and has meet all of the performance obligations. Identifying Performance Obligations Temenos commonly sells clearly defined separate performance obligations as identified by the disclosed revenue streams. The significant judgment arises when developments and customizations are included and Temenos must determine if these significantly alter the functionality of the software licensed initially. If Temenos concludes the developments or customizations significantly modify the software licensed the performance obligations will be bundled as one performance obligation and recognized when the combined performance obligation complete, functional and complete. Temenos often grants options to purchase additional products or services in its contracts with customers. These can be additional usage rights, renewals, products, modules or premium maintenance. Temenos assess each option to see if it provides that customer a material right. If a material right has been granted Temenos will identify this as a separate performance obligation and later in the revenue accounting process, allocate the appropriate consideration to the performance obligation. Determining the Transaction Price Judgment is required in assessing the total consideration that will be paid in exchange for the satisfied performance obligations. This includes not only assessing the variable amounts which may be included in the consideration but also assessing if any concessions, discounts or other variable factors may reduce the fixed fees in the contract. Temenos uses internal historical experiences as well as external factors in making the necessary estimates. Allocating the Consideration to the Performance Obligation Temenos applies the consideration based on a standalone alone selling price hierarchy. This hierarchy is based on priority being given to performance obligations that have a high level of externally observable inputs and not highly variable in price, such as implementation services. Low priority in the hierarchy is given to items that have little to no external comparability and have a highly variable selling price. Finally once all other performance obligations have been valued the residual is allocated to the licenses. In addition, management exercises judgments with respect to the determination of the appropriate method to estimate the standalone selling price for the various performance obligations in a contract which eventually impacts the amount of revenue recognized in the consolidated financial statements for each performance obligation. Temenos also use renewal rates, historical data and cost inputs to determine the standalone selling price and its position in the allocation hierarchy. Standalone selling price of a material rights factor in the judgments about the likelihood of the customer taking up the option using historical data and the nature of the material right. Timing of revenue recognition Temenos recognizes all licensed software (available products, development or customizations) at a point in time when the software is delivered, functional and the customer has control. Control is primarily seen as the customer can take possession of the functional software and use it within the licensed usage rights. SaaS is recognized over time starting from the point the service is made available to the customer to access the service. Maintenance services are recognized over the period the service is provided on a straight-line basis. The standard maintenance offering is a stand ready obligation to provide technical support and unspecified updates, upgrades and enhancements on a when and if available basis. Customers simultaneously receive and consume the benefits of these support services as performed. Professional services are recognized over time using a percentage of completion based on input method for the fixed price service offering. Temenos uses an inputs method aligned to milestones and the consideration recoverable. Payment terms In the majority of contracts with customers Temenos will look for payment upfront for the licensed software, payment annually in advance for the maintenance and SaaS contracts and Professional Services paid on set project milestones with a portion paid on contract signature. Incremental Costs of Obtaining Customer Contracts The assets recognized for the incremental costs to obtain a contract are predominantly made up of sales commissions earned by Temenos sales force in obtaining SaaS contracts. The asset is amortized over the life of the contract committed for by the customer as the commissions are driven by the commitment period. Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 139 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 December 2018 continued 2. ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 2.17 Revenue recognition continued Cost to fulfill a contract The cost to fulfill a contract with a customer that are associated with customization developments are deferred on the balance sheet as work in progress until the development performance obligation is met, at which point the cost will recognized in line with the revenue. Contract balances – Assets and Receivable The Group classifies the right to consideration in exchange for products or services transferred to a client as either a receivable or a contract asset. A receivable is a right to consideration that is unconditional on factors other than passage of time whereas a contract asset is a right to consideration that is conditional upon other factors. Contract assets represents revenue where the right to consideration is subject to future performance being satisfied such as the completion of milestones on service fixed price contracts or satisfaction of maintenance for future periods. Deferred revenues Deferred revenues (referred as ‘Contract liabilities’ as per IFRS 15 terminology) represents prepayment from clients for wholly unsatisfied or partially satisfied performance obligations mainly in relation to maintenance and SaaS contracts. 2.18 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year. Diluted earnings per share are determined by dividing the profit or loss attributable to equity holders of the Company, adjusted for the effect that would result from the conversion of dilutive ordinary shares, by the weighted average number of ordinary shares plus the weighted average of number of ordinary shares that would be issued on the conversion of all the dilutive potential ordinary shares. 2.19 Segment reporting Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM). The Chief Operating Decision Maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the Group’s Chief Executive Officer (CEO). 2.20 Other financial assets Other financial assets include derivatives held with positive value and equity investments. Other financial assets are initially recorded at fair value. Any transaction costs are expensed in profit or loss. Regular way purchases and sales of financial assets are recognized on the trade-date, being the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset. Financial assets are derecognized when the rights to receive cash flows from the financial instruments have expired or have been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership. Derivative assets held for trading A derivative is held for trading if it is: >> Acquired or incurred principally for the purpose of selling or repurchasing it in the near-term; >> Not designated and effective hedging instrument. While the objective of holding these assets was to provide effective economic hedges under the Group’s risk management strategy, these derivatives are not designated as hedging instruments according to IFRS 9 since all relevant conditions are not met. Therefore, subsequent changes in the fair value are immediately recognized within ‘Finance costs – net’. Related cash-flows are reported as cash flows from investing activities. Derivatives held for trading are reported as a current assets. Derivative assets used for hedging Derivatives used for hedging are subsequently measured at fair value. Subsequent changes in fair value are accounted according to the provisions for hedge accounting in IFRS 9. They are reported as non-current assets when they are expected to be settled more than 12 months after the reporting period. Equity investments Equity instruments are subsequently measured at fair value with movements recorded either in profit or loss or in other comprehensive income for securities held as strategic investment that the Group irrevocably elects to classify as fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI) on the acquisition date. For securities measured at FVOCI, there is no reclassification of the accumulated changes in fair value to profit or loss when the instrument is sold. Any distribution of dividend is recognized in profit or loss. 2.21 Other financial liabilities Other financial liabilities include derivatives held with negative value. At initial recognition, other financial liabilities are measured at fair value. Any transaction costs are expensed in profit or loss. Derivative liabilities held for trading A derivative is held for trading if it is: >> Acquired or incurred principally for the purpose of selling or repurchasing it in the near-term; >> Not designated and effective hedging instrument. 140 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements While the objective of holding these liabilities was to provide effective economic hedges under the Group’s risk management strategy, these derivatives are not designated as hedging instruments according to IFRS 9 since all relevant conditions are not met. Therefore, subsequent changes in the fair value are immediately recognized within ‘Finance costs – net’. Related cash-flows are reported as cash flows from investing activities. Derivatives held for trading are reported as a current liabilities. Derivative liabilities used for hedging Derivatives used for hedging are subsequently measured at fair value. Subsequent changes in fair value are accounted according to the provisions for hedge accounting in IFRS 9. They are reported as non-current liabilities when they are expected to be settled more than 12 months after the reporting period. 2.22 Hedging activities At inception of the hedge relationship, the Group documents the economic relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, the risk management objective and strategy as well as the methodology to assess the hedge effectiveness requirements. The Group does not currently apply fair value hedge or hedge of a net investment. Cash flow hedge In a cash flow hedge designation, the effective portion of change in fair value of the hedging instrument is recognized in other comprehensive income. The ineffective portion is immediately recognized in profit or loss. Accumulated amounts deferred in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss. However, when the forecast transaction results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability (e.g. fixed assets, deferred revenue), the gains and losses previously deferred in other comprehensive income are removed to the initial cost of the asset or the carry amount of the liability. When the Group separates the time value of an option, the forward element of a forward contract or the currency basis spread of a swap instrument from the designation of the hedging instrument, the movement in fair value of these elements are recognized in other comprehensive income as ‘cost of hedging’ to the extent they relate to the hedge item. The value that is priced into the instrument on the designation date is recognized in profit or loss or included in the initial cost or carry amount of a non-financial asset or liability either over the period of the hedging relationship if it is a ‘time-period related’ hedge or when the hedge item occurs for ‘transaction related’ hedge. Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires, or is sold or terminated, or when the risk management objective is no longer met. The amount accumulated in other comprehensive income remains in equity until the hedge item occurs. If there is no longer expectation that the forecast transaction will realize, the amount is immediately reclassified to profit or loss. 2.23 Fair value measurement The Group measures certain financial instruments at fair value. Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The fair value is based on the presumption that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either: >> In the principal market for the asset or liability; or >> In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability. The principal market or the most advantageous market must be accessible to or by the Group. The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using similar inputs that the market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability and assuming that market participants act in their economic best interest. The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair value, maximizing the use of relevant observable inputs and minimizing the use of unobservable inputs. All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the Group’s consolidated financial statements are categorized within the fair value hierarchy, as follows: >> Level 1 inputs: Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; >> Level 2 inputs: Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly; >> Level 3 inputs: Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data. The Group’s policy is to recognize transfers into and out of fair value hierarchy levels as at the end of the reporting period when the event or change in circumstances occurred. For items categorized within level 3, the Group’s finance team reviews the estimates and assumptions on a regular basis but, in all cases, at each interim period. Any changes that may have a significant effect on the reported fair value are reported to the management. The Group has elected to use the exception provided by paragraph 48 of IFRS 13 ‘Fair Value Measurement’ to measure the credit risk element attributable to the Group’s own credit risk (net short position) or the counterparty’s credit risk (net long position) on a net basis for the financial assets and financial liabilities governed by a master netting agreement. Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 141 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 December 2018 continued 2. ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 2.24 Offsetting financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the statement of financial position when, and only when, the Group: >> Currently has a legally enforceable right to set-off the financial assets and financial liabilities; and >> Intends either to settle on a net basis, or to realize the financial assets and settle the financial liabilities simultaneously. A enforceable right to offset financial assets and financial liabilities must not be contingent on future event and must be currently legally enforceable in the normal course of business, in the event of default and in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy. 2.25 Dividend distribution Dividend distribution to the Group’s shareholders is recognized as a liability in the Group’s financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders. 3. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 3.1 Accounting classifications The Group holds the following financial instruments to which the accounting policies according to IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’ apply: As per IAS 39 2017 USD 000 FINANCIAL ASSETS Fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL) Held for trading 2,464 Derivatives instruments used for hedging 1,664 Financial asset measured at amortized cost 418,877 Total 423,005 FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL) Held for trading 1,298 Contingent consideration – Derivatives instruments used for hedging 29,638 Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost 561,713 Total 592,649 As per IFRS 9 2018 USD 000 FINANCIAL ASSETS Financial asset measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL) 4,215 Financial asset measured at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI) 15,000 Derivatives instruments used for hedging 2,787 Financial asset measured at amortized cost 562,339 Total 584,341 FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL) 1,087 Derivatives instruments used for hedging 20,532 Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost 974,597 Total 996,216 142 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements 3.2 Financial risk factors The Group is exposed to a variety of financial risks: market risk (including currency risk, fair value interest rate risk, cash flow interest rate risk and price risk), credit risk and liquidity risk. The Group’s overall risk management policy focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimize potential adverse effects on the Group’s financial statements. The Group uses derivatives to hedge certain risk exposures. Market risk Market risk management is carried out by a central treasury team under policies and procedures approved by the management. The Group’s risk policies are primarily set out to identify the source of the risks, to monitor the risks with clear sets of rules and controls and to establish strategies in order to protect the Group’s financial statements against any adverse financial effect arising from these risks. The Group’s policies and the related procedures are regularly updated to reflect changes in market conditions, Group activities and emergence of new risks. They are also regularly overseen by the Group’s internal audit team for compliance as well as detection of control deficiency. (i) Foreign exchange risk The Group operates internationally and, therefore, is exposed to transactional foreign exchange risk in various currencies, primarily with respect to those described hereunder. Foreign exchange risk arises from: >> Forecast transactions denominated in a currency other than the entity’s functional currency; >> Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than the entity’s functional currency. The Group’s policy is to protect its profit or loss from the variability in cash flows that is attributable to the movement in currencies associated with its forecast transactions and monetary assets and liabilities recognized in the statement of financial position. This is implemented by 1) aligning the revenue streams to currencies that match the cost base and 2) using derivatives to offset the change in value of the exposure. The Group risk strategy is to continuously maintain its 12-18 month projection of future transactions within predetermined coverage parameters with a higher hedging ratio for front-loaded quarters. The hedging strategy is executed in layers and only for currencies for which the combination of exposure and volatility may have an adverse effect in the financial statements. The Group uses forward exchange contracts with maturities that are closely aligned to the dates when the forecast cash flows are expected to realize. Except for maintenance revenue for which the effective portion of the hedge become part of the carrying amount reported in ‘Deferred revenues’ line, forecast transactions are expected to be recognized in profit or loss during the same period as the hedging instrument. The Group hedges the EUR/CHF currency risk arising from a bond issued in 2015 with a cross currency swap. It applies cash flow hedge accounting for this hedging relationship. Unless already designated in a hedging relationship, the Group risk strategy is to hedge material currency exposure arising from monetary assets and liabilities using forward exchange contracts with maturities not exceeding three months. The Group does not apply hedge accounting for this economic hedging relationship. For all the hedging relationships where hedge accounting is applied, the hedge effectiveness is tested every quarter or upon a significant change in the assumptions. The existence of an economic relationship between the hedge item and the hedging instrument is assessed using either the ‘critical term match’ method or the ‘dollar offset’ method when the terms of the hedging instrument do not perfectly match the terms of the hedged item. Possible source of ineffectiveness may arise from 1) increase in credit risk from the derivative counterparty or 2) change in the timing of the cash flow realization of the forecast transaction. Since the critical terms of the hedging instrument closely match those of the hedge items, the Group applies a hedge ratio of 1:1. The Group is also exposed to foreign currency risk arising from the translation of its foreign operations in USD dollars, but it does not hold any derivatives to manage the exposure as there is no intention to divest any of it subsidiaries. The table below illustrates the Group’s most sensitive currency exposures: Net exposure 2018 2017 FCY* 000 FCY* 000 Euro 3,891 284 UK pounds (6,606) 3,716 Swiss francs (8,788) (390) India rupee (187,215) (116,866) * Foreign currency. A negative value represents a liability exposure. These exposures represent monetary assets and liabilities, including derivatives held for trading, that are either: >> Denominated in one of the currencies above and measured in an entity with a different functional currency; or >> Denominated in another currency but measured in an entity whose functional currency is one of the above, and that are not part of an existing cash flow hedge relationship. Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 143 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 December 2018 continued 3. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED 3.2 Financial risk factors continued Sensitivity analysis The following table represents the effect of a reasonable shift in the currencies above against the US dollars. 2018 Euro UK pounds Swiss francs India rupee USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 Sensitivity assumption +10% +10% +10% +10% Profit or (loss) 455 (827) (884) (268) Other comprehensive income: Cash flow hedging related to forecast transaction (4,574) 867 1,492 2,748 Cash flow hedging related to long-dated liability (2,228) – 1,568 – (6,802) 867 3,060 2,748 Equity (6,347) 40 2,176 2,480 Sensitivity assumption -10% -10% -10% -10% Profit or (loss) (455) 827 884 268 Other comprehensive income: Cash flow hedging related to forecast transaction 4,574 (867) (1,492) (2,748) Cash flow hedging related to long-dated liability 2,228 – (1,568) – 6,802 (867) (3,060) (2,748) Equity 6,347 (40) (2,176) (2,480) 2017 Euro UK pounds Swiss francs India rupee USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 Sensitivity assumption +10% +10% +10% +10% Profit or (loss) 34 501 (40) (183) Other comprehensive income: Cash flow hedging related to forecast transaction (4,001) 1,471 1,352 1,793 Cash flow hedging related to long-dated liability 1,278 – 1,551 – (2,723) 1,471 2,903 1,793 Equity (2,689) 1,972 2,863 1,610 Sensitivity assumption -10% -10% -10% -10% Profit or (loss): (34) (501) 40 183 Other comprehensive income: Cash flow hedging related to forecast transaction 4,001 (1,471) (1,352) (1,793) Cash flow hedging related to long-dated liability (1,278) – (1,551) – 2,723 (1,471) (2,903) (1,793) Equity 2,689 (1,972) (2,863) (1,610) Given the volatility of these currencies, the current economic environment and the foreign exchange market conditions, these sensitivity assumptions represent management’s assessment of reasonably possible changes in spot rates. (iii) Cash flow and fair value interest risk The Group is exposed to cash flow interest rate risks arising from cash and cash equivalents and borrowings at variable rates. The Group is not exposed to fair value risk arising from its fixed rate borrowings since they are measured at amortized cost. The Group’s policy is to protect its profit or loss from the variability in cash flows that is attributable to the movement in interest rates from its financial instrument at floating rates. When the risk is deemed to be substantial, the Group enters into derivatives to hedge the exposure and hedge accounting is applied when all relevant conditions are met. At the reporting periods, no hedges were in place as the Group’s exposure was not material. Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations, and arises principally from the Group’s trade receivables. The carrying amount of the financial assets, as reported in section 3.1 above, represents the maximum credit exposure. 144 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Trade receivables and contract assets The Group determines the creditworthiness of any prospective or existing customers at the initial phase of each bid process. Assessment of credit risk is mainly based on assessing the creditworthiness of customers through external ratings, and in the case of existing customers, our past experience. If a company is unrated, then historical payment experience, if available, together with country stability is taken into consideration to assess the credit risk. Every credit check performed on prospective or existing customers at the initial phase of the negotiation goes through an approval process. The credit rating is taken into account during the revenue recognition process once contracts are signed. Payment terms and requirement of financial security are adapted according to the degree of the credit quality and the past experience. At present, the Group does not hold any collateral security. The Group assesses the credit risk for customers with significant balances on a regular basis. In cases when delinquency in payments occurs, the Group may withhold services delivery under current implementation or limit the right to use its software. As at 31 December 2018 and 2017, there is no geographical concentration of credit risk as the Group’s customer base is internationally dispersed and no individual customer represents more than 10% of the Group’s outstanding ‘Trade receivables and contract assets’ balances. The Group performs impairment analysis using default rate to measure expected credit loss for all trade receivable including with significant financing components, and contract assets. The Group identifies the default rate by analysing the historical and current experience with credit losses, considering it to represent a reasonable approximation for future expected defaults and apply to the current receivables. The Group also takes into consideration forward looking factors, including changes in the economic environment or changes in regulation and if material reflects these in the expected credit loss allowance. A credit impairment is recognized when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivable. Evidence of impairment includes severe financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganization. At 31 December 2018, the credit risk exposure on the Group’s trade receivables and contract assets is as follows: 2018 USD 000 Expected credit loss rate 2.13% Gross carrying amount for trade receivables and contract assets 268,179 Provision for credit losses 5,710 As disclosed in note 2.1, the Group’s exposure to credit risk from balances due from its customers is limited. Therefore, the Group has applied the expected credit loss rate calculated above to the overall receivable and contract asset balances without using a grouping criteria and hence a provision matrix is not presented for disclosure purposes. Refer to note 14 for the movement in the loss allowance in respect of trade receivables and contract assets. Financial instruments and cash deposits The Group mitigates the counterparty risk related to cash and cash equivalents and derivative financial instruments by holding balances with major reputable financial institutions. Credit risk related to derivative financial instruments is also mitigated by legally enforceable master netting agreements such as ISDAs or equivalent. Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Group’s policy is to maintain a level of liquidity that meets its future financial outcome expected to be settled in the short or near term, under both normal and stressed conditions. Excess of liquidity is primarily used to repay any drawn borrowing facilities (note 19) and then invested in highly liquid instruments with maturities of three months or less. The Group’s treasury team manages the liquidity and funding risk by seeking to align the maturity profile of its financial assets with its financial liabilities. The Group’s net debt and liquidity position are monitored through rolling forecasts on the basis of future cash flows. Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 145 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 December 2018 continued 3. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED 3.2 Financial risk factors continued Liquidity risk continued The following table details the remaining contractual maturity of the Groups’ non-derivative financial liabilities. The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows. Between Between Between Less than 6 and 1 and 2 and More than 6 months 12 months 2 years 5 years 5 years USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 At 31 December 2018 Trade and other payables 146,838 13,042 – – – Property provision 58 323 261 – – Borrowings 310,648 3,380 9,655 380,953 155,104 Total non-derivatives financial liabilities 457,544 16,745 9,916 380,953 155,104 Between Between Between Less than 6 and 1 and 2 and More than 6 months 12 months 2 years 5 years 5 years USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 At 31 December 2017 Trade and other payables 110,102 11,138 – – – Property provision 51 – 238 – – Borrowings 2,089 6,335 110,916 198,208 159,058 Total non-derivatives financial liabilities 112,242 17,473 111,154 198,208 159,058 The following table details the Groups’ liquidity analysis for its derivative financial liabilities. These amounts represent the contractual undiscounted net cash inflows and outflows on derivative instruments that settle on a net basis, and the undiscounted gross inflows and outflows on those derivatives that require gross settlement. When the amount payable or receivable is not fixed, the amount disclosed has been determined by reference to quoted prices in active markets for identical instruments. Between Between Between Between Less than 3 and 6 and 1 and 2 and More than 3 months 6 months 12 months 2 years 5 years 5 years USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 At 31 December 2018 Cross currency swaps – 2,215 – 2,215 18,278 – Outflow foreign exchange derivatives 80,584 4,686 5,708 – – – Inflow foreign exchange derivatives (79,566) (4,524) (5,292) – – – Net settled foreign exchange derivatives 493 62 115 221 – – Total derivatives 1,511 2,439 531 2,436 18,278 – Between Between Between Between Less than 3 and 6 and 1 and 2 and More than 3 months 6 months 12 months 2 years 5 years 5 years USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 At 31 December 2017 Cross currency swaps – 2,436 – 2,436 27,698 – Outflow foreign exchange derivatives 70,935 17,514 16,122 4,228 – – Inflow foreign exchange derivatives (69,307) (16,860) (15,300) (4,095) – – Net settled foreign exchange derivatives 110 – – – – – Total derivatives 1,738 3,090 822 2,569 27,698 – 3.3 Capital risk management The Group’s principal objective when managing capital is to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, so that it can continue to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders. The Group is also subject to financial covenants under its financing agreements. These covenants require the Group to remain within certain thresholds used for calculating financial ratios that are primarily based on financial indebtedness, EBITDA and interest expenses. The capital structure of the Group consists of the net debt (note 13) and the capital and reserves attributable to equity holders of the parent. The capital risk management policy remains unchanged from the previous period. 146 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements 3.4 Fair value measurement The following table provides the level of the fair value hierarchy within which the carrying amounts of the financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value are categorized. Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Year ended 31 December 2018 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 Financial assets at FVTPL Forward foreign exchange contracts (note 15) – 4,215 – 4,215 Derivatives used for hedging Forward foreign exchange contracts (note 15) – 2,787 – 2,787 Financial assets at FVOCI Equity securities – – 15,000 15,000 Total – 7,002 15,000 22,002 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 Financial liabilities at FVTPL Forward foreign exchange contracts (note 15) – 1,087 – 1,087 Derivatives used for hedging Forward foreign exchange contracts (note 15) – 1,360 – 1,360 Cross currency swaps (note 15) – 19,172 – 19,172 Total – 21,619 – 21,619 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Year ended 31 December 2017 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 Financial assets at FVTPL Forward foreign exchange contracts (note 15) – 2,464 – 2,464 Derivatives used for hedging Forward foreign exchange contracts (note 15) – 1,664 – 1,664 Total – 4,128 – 4,128 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 Financial liabilities at FVTPL Forward foreign exchange contracts (note 15) – 1,298 – 1,298 Derivatives used for hedging Forward foreign exchange contracts (note 15) – 2,017 – 2,017 Cross currency swap (note 15) – 27,621 – 27,621 Total – 30,936 – 30,936 There were no transfers between Level 1 and 2 in the current and prior periods. Assets and liabilities in level 2 Forward foreign exchange contracts: Discounted cash flow method: The fair value represents the future cash flows that are discounted using a risk-free yield curve adjusted for credit risk. The future cash flows is determined using forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date. Cross currency swaps: Discounted cash flow method: The future cash flows are discounted using the interest yield-curve attributable to each currency (including the currency basis spreads). The fair value of the leg measured in foreign currency is translated using the spot exchange rate. There were no changes in valuation techniques during the period. Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 147 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 December 2018 continued 3. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED 3.4 Fair value measurement continued Assets and liabilities in level 3 Equity investments: Discounted cash flow model: The fair value represents the financial projection provided by the company discounted at a risk adjusted rate of 11%. Since the acquisition of the equity securities occurred towards the end of the period, the change in fair value was deemed to be zero. Material change in the parameters and assumptions used in the financial projection would not significantly change the fair value of the investment. Reconciliation from the opening balances to the closing balances Equity Contingent Securities Consideration USD 000 USD 000 At 1 January 2017 – 1,542 Amount reversed within ‘Cost of Sales’ – (1,598) Earn out true-up to ‘Cost of Sales’ – 31 Unwinding of discount to ‘Finance costs’ (note 11) – 25 At 31 December 2017 – – Purchase (note 15) 15,000 – At 31 December 2018 15,000 – 3.5 Hedging At the reporting dates, the Group did not apply any fair value hedge or hedge of a net investment. At 31 December 2018 the Group held the following derivatives as hedging instruments. Time band More than 1-6 months 6-12 months one year USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 Foreign currency risk Financial assets Forward exchange contracts: Nominal amount expressed in USD equivalent 28,474 19,881 6,055 USD/CHF VWAP* 0.97 0.93 0.96 GBP/USD VWAP* 1.35 1.41 – USD/INR VWAP* 70.23 72.45 77.06 USD/RON VWAP* 3.99 3.98 4.17 Financial liabilities Forward exchange contracts: Nominal amount in USD equivalent 24,279 19,899 3,604 EUR/USD VWAP* 1.23 1.22 1.20 Cross currency swaps Nominal amount in USD equivalent 13,848 EUR/CHF VWAP* 1.03 * Volume weighted average price. Since the critical terms of the hedging instruments closely match those of the hedge items, the Group applies a hedge ratio of 1:1. 148 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements The effect of hedge accounting on the financial position and performance The table below shows the effect on the financial statements from the items designated as hedged items and hedging instruments. Items designated as hedging instrument Carrying amount Change in value used to determine Assets Liabilities Line item in the statement hedge ineffectiveness Year ended 31 December 2018 USD 000 USD 000 of financial position USD 000 Foreign exchange risk Cash flow hedges Forward exchange contracts 2,787 1,360 Other financial assets and liabilities (note 15) 4,740 Cross currency swaps – 19,172 Other financial assets and liabilities (note 15) 8,449 Items designated as hedge item Change in value used to determine Cash flow hedge ineffectiveness hedge reserve Year ended 31 December 2018 USD 000 USD 000 Cash flow hedges Foreign exchange risk Forecast transactions 4,740 1,427 Borrowings 8,449 19,172 Note 25 provides details on change in fair value and amount reclassified to profit or loss by risk category. There was no ineffectiveness recognized during the period (2017: USD nil). The Group does not have any forecast transaction for which cash flow hedge accounting had been used in previous period, but which is no longer expected to occur. 3.6 Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities Derivatives transactions entered into by the Group are governed by ISDAs or equivalent. Such agreements permit the Group for net settlement with the same counterparty in the normal course of business and, also, give the right to set-off exposure with the same counterparty in the event of default, insolvency or bankruptcy of either the entity or the counterparty. The Group has a set-off agreement with one of its Partners. Under the terms of this agreement, all amounts payable are offset against receivables and the net amount are settled between the parties. Gross Amount Amount Amount amount set-off reported not set off Net amount Year ended 31 December 2018 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 Financial assets Trade receivables and contract assets (note 14) 265,627 (3,158) 262,469 – 262,469 Derivatives financial assets (note 15) 7,002 – 7,002 (2,342) 4,660 Total 272,629 (3,158) 269,471 (2,342) 267,129 Financial liabilities Trade payables (note 18) 34,041 (3,158) 30,883 – 30,883 Derivatives financial liabilities (note 15) 21,619 – 21,619 (2,342) 19,277 Total 55,660 (3,158) 52,502 (2,342) 50,160 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 149 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 December 2018 continued 3. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED 3.6 Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities continued Year ended 31 December 2017 Gross Amount Amount Amount amount set-off reported not set off Net amount USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 Financial assets Trade receivables (note 14) 85,929 (1,450) 84,479 – 84,479 Derivatives financial assets (note 15) 4,128 – 4,128 (2,146) 1,982 Total 90,057 (1,450) 88,607 (2,146) 86,461 Financial liabilities Trade payables (note 18) 26,362 (1,450) 24,912 – 24,912 Derivatives financial liabilities (note 15) 30,936 – 30,936 (2,146) 28,790 Total 57,298 (1,450) 55,848 (2,146) 53,702 4. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGMENTS Estimates and judgments are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. The resulting accounting estimates may differ from the actual results. The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below. Critical accounting estimates and assumptions Impairment of goodwill The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment in accordance with the accounting policy stated in note 2.8. The recoverable amounts of cashgenerating units have been determined based on value-in-use calculations. These calculations require the use of estimates (note 17). If the future sales and the size of the market opportunities are significantly lower than management’s estimates the carrying value of goodwill may need to be reduced accordingly. However, unless any downturn is particularly severe and pervasive, it is unlikely to have a material impact on the carrying value of goodwill. At 31 December 2018 the carrying amount of the goodwill amounts to USD 628.6 million (2017: USD 521.7 million). Deferred income taxes The Group recognizes deferred tax assets on carried forward losses and other temporary differences. The amount recognized is based on management’s estimates and assumptions with regards to the availability of future taxable profits at the subsidiaries where the carried forward losses or temporary differences exist. At 31 December 2018 the carrying amount of the deferred tax asset amounts to USD 17.7 million (2017: USD 21.9 million). Critical judgments in applying the Group’s accounting policies Revenue recognition As detailed in note 2.17, the Group is required to make an assessment for each new software license contract as to whether the underlying software requires significant modification or customization by the Group in order to meet the customer’s requirements. If significant modification or customization is required, then the license fee is recognized at the point in time when all developments and customizations are complete, functional and delivered to the customer. However, the majority of such modifications or customizations have not been deemed significant in current or prior periods. Under IFRS 15, the collection of cash is addressed from the outset, if Temenos doesn’t believe the customer has the ability or intent to pay the consideration promised for the performance obligations then Temenos is not in possession of a contract and revenue recognition can not commence. If there is doubt about the sum of consideration to be paid then this is addressed under variable consideration. This is addressed under step three of the revenue recognition model ‘understanding the consideration in the contract’. Both of these require judgment to be applied by Temenos. In addition, management exercises judgments with respect to the determination of the appropriate method to estimate the standalone selling price for the various performance obligations in a contract which eventually impacts the amount of revenue recognized in the consolidated financial statements for each performance obligation. In respect of services revenue, management exercises judgment in determining the percentage of completion, specifically with regards to the total mandays remaining to complete the implementation. Internally generated software development As detailed in note 2.7, the Group is required to make an assessment for each ongoing project in order to determine at what stage a project meets the criteria outlined in the Group’s accounting policies. Such assessment may, in certain circumstances, require significant judgment. In making this judgment, the Group evaluates, amongst other factors, the stage at which technical feasibility has been achieved, management’s intention to complete and use or sell the product, likelihood of success, availability of technical and financial resources to complete the development phase and management’s ability to reliably measure the expenditure attributable to the project. The total development expenses for the period was USD 229.5 million (2017: USD 203.2 million) and the total capitalized development costs was USD 52.6 million (2017: USD 50.5 million). 150 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements 5. GROUP COMPANIES The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Temenos AG and the following entities as of 31 December 2018: 2018 2017 Ownership Ownership Company name Country of incorporation interest interest Amee Easy Software Solutions Pty Limited*** Australia 0% 100% Amee Ip Holdings Pty Limited*** Australia 0% 100% Avoka Technologies Pty Ltd* Australia 100% 0% Infinitive Pty Limited Australia 100% 100% Provisio Technologies Pty Limited*** Australia 0% 100% Rubik Esop Trusco Pty Limited Australia 100% 100% Rubik Financial Technology Pty Limited*** Australia 0% 100% Rubik Ip Holdings Pty Limited Australia 100% 100% Rubik Mortgages Pty Limited Australia 100% 100% Stargate Information Systems Pty Limited Australia 100% 100% Swift El-Ten Services Pty Limited*** Australia 0% 100% Temenos Australia Pty Limited Australia 100% 100% Temenos Australia Financial Pty Limited Australia 100% 100% Temenos Australia Messaging Pty Limited Australia 100% 100% Temenos Australia Operations Pty Limited Australia 100% 100% Temenos Australia Services Pty Limited Australia 100% 100% Temenos Australia Technology Solutions Pty Limited Australia 100% 100% Temenos Solutions Australia Pty Limited Australia 100% 100% Temenos Belgium Sa Belgium 100% 100% Odyssey Financial Technologies S.a. Belgium 100% 100% Temenos Software Brasil Ltda Brazil 100% 100% Temenos Holdings Limited British Virgin Islands 100% 100% Temenos Bulgaria Eood Bulgaria 100% 100% Avoka Technologies Canada Inc.* Canada 100% 0% Temenos Canada Inc. Canada 100% 100% Igefi Canada Inc.** Canada 0% 100% Temenos Software Shanghai Co. Limited China 100% 100% Temenos Colombia Sas Colombia 100% 100% Temenos Costa Rica Sa Costa Rica 100% 100% Temenos (Russia) Limited Cyprus 100% 100% Temenos Middle East Limited Cyprus 100% 100% Temenos Denmark Aps Denmark 100% 100% Temenos Ecuador Sa Ecuador 100% 100% Temenos Egypt Llc Egypt 100% 100% Temenos France Sas France 100% 100% Temenos Holdings France Sas France 100% 100% Viveo Group Sas France 100% 100% Viveo France Sas France 100% 100% Igefi France Sarl France 100% 100% Avoka (Germany) Gmbh* Germany 100% 0% Odyssey Financial Technologies Gmbh Germany 100% 100% Temenos Deutschland Gmbh Germany 100% 100% Igefi Deutschland Gmbh Germany 100% 100% Temenos Hellas Sa Greece 100% 100% Avoka Hong Kong Ltd* Hong Kong 100% 0% Temenos Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong 100% 100% Igefi Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong 100% 100% Temenos India Private Limited India 100% 100% Financial Objects Software (India) Private Limited** India 0% 100% Igefi Software India Private Limited** India 0% 100% Temenos Systems Ireland Limited Ireland 100% 100% Igefi Ireland Limited Ireland 100% 100% Temenos Israel Limited Israel 100% 100% Temenos Japan Kk Japan 100% 100% Temenos Kazakhstan Llp Kazakhstan 100% 100% Temenos East Africa Limited Kenya 100% 100% Temenos Korea Limited Korea 100% 100% Temenos Finance Luxembourg Sarl Luxembourg 100% 100% Temenos Luxembourg Sa Luxembourg 100% 100% Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 151 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 December 2018 continued 5. GROUP COMPANIES CONTINUED 2018 2017 Ownership Ownership Company name Country of incorporation interest interest Temenos Software Luxembourg Sa Luxembourg 100% 100% Odyssey Group S.a. Luxembourg 100% 100% Igefi Group Sarl Luxembourg 100% 100% Temenos (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100% 100% Temenos Mexico Sa De Cv Mexico 100% 100% Temenos North Africa Llc Morocco 100% 100% Temenos (Nl) Bv Netherlands 100% 100% Temenos Holland Bv Netherlands 100% 100% Temenos Investments Bv Netherlands 100% 100% Temenos Panama S.a. Panama 100% 100% Temenos Philippines Inc. Philippines 100% 100% Temenos Polska Sp.z.o.o Poland 100% 100% Finch Software Limited Republic of Mauritius 100% 100% Temenos Romania Srl Romania 100% 100% Temenos Singapore Pte Limited Singapore 100% 100% Igefi Singapore Pte Limited Singapore 100% 100% Temenos Singapore Ft Pte Limited Singapore 100% 100% Temenos Africa (Pty) Limited South Africa 100% 100% Dbs Global Solutions (Pty) Limited South Africa 100% 100% Temenos Hispania Sl Spain 100% 100% Temenos Headquarters Sa Switzerland 100% 100% Temenos Cloud Switzerland Sa**** Switzerland 100% 0% Temenos (Thailand) Co. Limited Thailand 100% 100% Temenos Eurasia Banka Yazilimlari Ltd Sirketi Turkey 100% 100% Temenos USA, Inc. USA 100% 100% Trinovus Systems Llc USA 100% 100% Igefi Us Llc USA 100% 100% Temenos Cloud Americas Llc**** USA 100% 0% Avoka (USA), Inc * USA 100% 0% Temenos Ukraine Llc Ukraine 100% 100% Temenos UK Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Avoka Europe Ltd* United Kingdom 100% 0% Fe Mobile Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Financial Objects Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Financial Objects (UK) Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Financial Objects International Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Wealth Management Systems Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Fairs Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Genisys Technology Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Igefi UK Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Lydian Associates Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Fino Software Services Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Wealth Management Software Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Odyssey Financial Technologies Plc United Kingdom 100% 100% Edge Ipk Ltd United Kingdom 100% 100% Temenos Holdings UK Limited**** United Kingdom 100% 0% Temenos Vietnam Company Limited Vietnam 100% 100% In addition to the Group companies listed above, some Group subsidiaries maintain branches or representative offices at the following locations: Beirut (Lebanon); Dubai (United Arab Emirates); Riyadh (Saudi Arabia); Moscow (Russia); Prague (Czech Republic); Taipei (Taiwan); Islamabad (Pakistan); Jakarta (Indonesia); New York (USA); Tunis (Tunisia); Nantes (France); Hong Kong (Hong Kong); Helsinki (Finland); Colombo (Sri Lanka) and Renens (Switzerland). * Companies acquired as part of acquisition of business in 2018. ** Merger of companies Financial Objects Software (India) Pvt Limited and Igefi Software India Pvt Limited with Temenos India Pvt Limited / Merger of Igefi Canada Inc with Temenos Canada Inc in 2018. *** Companies struck-off in 2018. **** Companies set up in 2018. Significant restrictions Other than those described in note 13, there is no significant restriction on the Group’s ability to access or use assets, and settle liabilities, of the above entities. 152 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements 6. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS Prior year acquisitions There were no subsequent adjustments relating to the finalization of the initial accounting for prior year acquisition ‘Rubik Financial Limited’. Current year acquisitions Avoka Technologies Pty Limited On 20 December 2018, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Avoka Technologies Pty Limited a global leader in digital customer acquisition and onboarding software. Avoka has more than 85 customers that are largely served through a SaaS model hosted on the cloud, and serves all key banking segments including retail, corporate and wealth. It’s customer base has grown more rapidly with both top tier and mid-market banks with clients in Europe, Australia and US. With over 270 employees in offices across the US, UK and Australia, Avoka is purpose built for creating omni-channel customer acquisition and onboarding solutions that enable banks to create simple customer-friendly experiences that improve conversion rates. The combination of Avoka and Temenos will further strengthen the Temenos Infinity product, which has over 300 banking clients and has been recognized as a leader by top analyst houses such as Forrester and Ovum. The Avoka platform will be integrated with the Temenos Infinity product, providing banks with a comprehensive single solution for their omni-channel digital banking needs. The goodwill arising from the acquisition is mainly attributable to the cross-selling opportunities and to strengthen the Group’s presence in digital front office. The goodwill recognized is not tax deductible for income tax purposes. Fair value of the consideration transferred at acquisition date USD 000 Cash consideration 253,997 Total Fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed USD 000 Cash & cash equivalents 11,535 Trade and other receivables 9,271 Property, plant and equipment (note 16) 825 Intangible assets (note 17) 141,548 Trade and other payables (5,919) Provision for other liabilities (note 21) (430) Deferred tax liabilities (note 20) (27,550) Deferred revenues (9,349) Total 119,932 Goodwill (note 17) 134,066 Acquisition-related costs included in ‘General and administrative’ line in the statement of profit or loss 670 Net consideration paid in cash 253,997 Cash and cash equivalents acquired (11,535) Cash outflow on acquisition 242,462 The fair value of the trade and other receivables approximates its carrying value and it is expected to be fully recoverable. The revenue and profit or loss contributed by the acquire in the period between the date of acquisition and the reporting date are not material as the acquisition date occurred towards the end of the period. Had the acquisition occurred on 1 January 2018, the Group’s consolidated statement of profit or loss would have reported a pro-forma revenue of USD 880.8 million and a pro-forma profit of USD 156 million. The initial accounting has been provisionally completed at 31 December 2018. The Group is still evaluating the fair value of the net assets which includes acquired intangible assets. Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 153 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 December 2018 continued 7. SEGMENT INFORMATION The Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM) has been identified as the Group’s Chief Executive Officer (CEO). He regularly reviews the Group’s operating segments in order to assess performance and to allocate resources. The CODM considers the business from a product perspective and, therefore, recognizes the reporting segments as: ‘Product’ and ‘Services’. Other representation of the Group’s activity such as regional information is also presented to the CODM but it is not primarily used to review the Group’s performance and to make decisions as to how to allocate resources. These two reporting segments are the Group’s only operating segments, hence there is no segmental aggregation. The ‘Product’ segment is primarily engaged in marketing, licensing and maintaining the Group’s software solutions, including software development fees for requested functionality, as well as providing hosting and subscription arrangements. The ‘Services’ segment represents various implementation tasks such as consulting and training. The CODM assesses the performance of the operating segments based on the operating contribution. This measure includes the operating expenses that are directly or reasonably attributable to the reporting segments. Unallocated expenses mainly comprise of restructuring costs, termination benefits, acquisition related costs, share-based payment expenses, offices-related expenses and any other administrative or corporate overheads that cannot be directly attributable to the operating segments. Segment revenues provided to the CODM exclude the fair value adjustment recognized on deferred income liability acquired in business combination and hence total revenues allocated to the two segments exceed the IFRS reported figures. Assets attributed to the reporting segments represent the net trade receivables and the contract assets (note 14). The table below summarizes the primary information provided to the CODM: Product Services Total 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 Revenues 687,279 590,882 153,688 145,784 840,967 736,666 Operating contribution 352,941 293,328 30,571 28,419 383,512 321,747 Total assets 198,170 151,562 64,299 89,013 262,469 240,575 All revenues are derived from external customers. The Group has a large number of customers and no individual customer contributed more than 10% of the total Group’s revenue in the current and prior year. The accounting policies applied to the reportable segments are the same as the Group’s accounting policies described in note 2 with the exception of the fair value adjustment on deferred income liability acquired in business combination. Intersegment transactions are recognized as part of the allocated expenses. They are based on internal cost rates that excludes any profit margin. For goodwill impairment testing purposes, goodwill of USD 628.6 million (2017: USD 521.7 million) was allocated to the segment ‘Products.’ 2018 2017 Reconciliation to Group’s consolidated financial statements USD 000 USD 000 Total operating contribution from the reportable segments 383,512 321,747 Fair value adjustment on acquired deferred income liability (106) (1,303) Depreciation and amortization (note 9) (92,746) (85,007) Unallocated expenses (71,890) (57,132) Finance costs – net (note 11) (23,369) (17,357) Profit before taxation 195,401 160,948 2018 2017 Total assets USD 000 USD 000 Total assets allocated to the reportable segments 262,469 240,575 UNALLOCATED ITEMS: Other receivables 31,913 28,436 Cash and cash equivalents 287,439 167,855 Other financial assets 22,002 4,128 Property, plant and equipment 18,021 16,385 Intangible assets 1,008,873 795,961 Deferred tax assets 17,663 21,943 Total assets per the statement of financial position 1,648,380 1,275,283 154 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Geographical information 2018 Revenues from external customers USD 000 Switzerland (country of the Group’s domiciliation) 29,859 United Kingdom 52,840 Luxembourg 61,711 United States of America 94,115 Australia* 51,814 Ireland 43,722 TOTAL – MATERIAL COUNTRIES 334,061 Rest of Europe 184,096 Middle-East & Africa 148,350 Rest of Asia 108,774 Rest of Americas 65,580 TOTAL REVENUES 840,861 2017 Revenues from external customers USD 000 Switzerland (country of the Group’s domiciliation) 30,883 United Kingdom 50,833 Luxembourg 51,908 United States of America 56,195 Denmark* 37,474 Ireland 36,660 TOTAL – MATERIAL COUNTRIES 263,953 Rest of Europe 144,597 Middle-East & Africa 107,907 Rest of Asia 139,907 Rest of Americas 78,999 TOTAL REVENUES 735,363 * Denmark is not separately reported in the 2018 geographical information as the revenues from external customers attributed to it was not material. Australia has been added to 2018 geographical information as the revenue from external customers is deemed material. Revenues are based on the location where the license and maintenance is sold or the service is provided. 2018 Non-current assets other than financial instruments and deferred tax assets USD 000 Switzerland (country of the Group’s domiciliation) 133,236 Luxembourg 315,907 Australia 326,654 United Kingdom 53,165 France 61,365 United States of America 62,563 Other countries 74,004 Total 1,026,894 2017 USD 000 Switzerland (country of the Group’s domiciliation) 123,618 Luxembourg 358,389 United Kingdom 56,502 France 64,307 United States of America 69,635 Australia 65,236 Other countries 74,659 Total 812,346 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 155 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 December 2018 continued 8. REVENUE FROM CONTRACTS WITH CUSTOMERS Future performance obligation The following amounts of transaction prices allocated to the performance obligations that are partially unsatisfied or wholly unsatisfied as at 31 December 2018: Within More than one year one year Total USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 Revenue expected to be recognized 432,450 996,840 1,429,290 The remaining performance obligations expected to be recognized within one year and more than one year mainly relates ongoing maintenance support contracts. Contract balances 31 December 1 January 2018 2018 USD 000 USD 000 Contract assets 37,488 36,387 Deferred revenues 262,861 234,616 As a result of acquisition during the current reporting period, deferred revenues has increased by USD 9.3 million and movement on contract assets was immaterial (note 6). The amount of revenue recognized for the period ended 31 December 2018 from the deferred revenues balance at the beginning of the period is USD 180.2 million. The amount of revenue recognized for the period ended 31 December 2018 from performance obligations satisfied (or partially satisfied) in previous periods is USD 6.5 million. This is mainly due to movement in variable consideration where any variability related to transaction pricing and allocation of consideration has been removed. Contract Costs The Group has recognized an asset in relation to cost to obtain and fulfill the contract. This is presented within other receivables in the balance sheet. USD 000 Asset recognized from cost incurred to fulfill a contract at 31 December 2018 – Customization developments capitalized as work in progress 2,319 Cost associated with customization developments is recognized to statement of profit or loss when delivery is performed. In 2018, the amount recognized to profit or loss was USD 3.8 million. USD 000 Asset recognized from cost to obtain the contract at 31 December 2018 – Sales commission on SaaS contracts 988 Capitalized commission is amortized over the life of contract committed for by the customer as commission are driven by commitment period. In 2018, the amount amortized to profit or loss during the reporting period was USD 0.1 million. The Group applies the practical expedient in paragraph 94 of IFRS 15, which allows to expense the cost to obtain the contract if the amortization period of the assets that the Group would have recognized is one year or less. The impact on revenue on adoption of IFRS 15 has been separately disclosed in note 2.1. 9. EXPENSES BY NATURE 2018 2017 USD 000 USD 000 Third party licences and commissions 23,257 18,503 Personnel costs and external consultants 450,845 409,540 Depreciation and amortization (notes 16 and 17) 92,746 85,007 Travel expenses 31,940 27,368 Rent and other occupancy costs 21,877 19,871 Marketing and other professional costs 24,150 17,992 Other costs 29,901 29,245 Capitalized development costs (note 17) (52,625) (50,468) 622,091 557,058 156 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements 10. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT EXPENSES 2018 2017 USD 000 USD 000 Wages and salaries 278,028 253,068 Termination benefits 2,283 5,741 Social charges 56,200 50,901 Defined contribution pension costs 8,672 6,256 Defined benefit pension costs (note 22) 3,014 1,626 Cost of employee share option scheme (note 26) 38,018 32,661 386,215 350,253 Included in the employee benefit expenses, is the remuneration of the key management personnel as illustrated below: 2018 2017 USD 000 USD 000 Key management personnel of Temenos AG – Short term cash compensation and benefits 6,897 6,426 – Post-employment benefits 236 138 – Share-based payment 19,126 15,623 26,259 22,187 Non-executive directors – Short term benefits 824 788 Remuneration of the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee in accordance with the Swiss Code of Obligations and the Swiss Ordinance against Excessive Compensation in Stock Exchange Listed Companies can be found in the Compensation report of the Annual Report. 11. FINANCE COSTS – NET 2018 2017 USD 000 USD 000 Finance income: – Interest income on short term bank deposits and investments 1,766 1,738 – Interest income on non-current trade and other receivables measured at amortized cost 204 121 – Foreign exchange gain, net 1,147 – Total finance income 3,117 1,859 Finance costs: – Interest expense on financial instruments measured at amortized cost (13,817) (12,887) – Change in fair value of contingent consideration – (25) – Other financing costs* (10,605) (3,811) – Net loss on derivatives not designated as hedging instruments (2,064) (1,254) – Foreign exchange loss, net – (1,239) Total finance costs (26,486) (19,216) Finance costs – net (23,369) (17,357) * Other financing costs include commitment fees attributable to the undrawn portion of banking facilities, fees related to guarantees in issue and fees relating to the issuance of financing arrangements that is not recorded as an interest expense (calculated using the effective interest method) (note 2.11). Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 157 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 December 2018 continued 12. EARNINGS PER SHARE Basic Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year. . 2018 2017 Profit attributable to equity holders of the Company (USD 000) 168,228 138,406 Weighted average of ordinary shares outstanding during the year (in thousands) 69,361 69,927 Basic earnings per share (USD per share) 2.43 1.98 Diluted Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares. For the periods presented in these consolidated financial statements, the Group has only one category with a potential dilutive effect: ‘Instrument granted to employees under share based payment’. For the period ended 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2018, this category was fully dilutive. 2018 2017 Profit used to determine diluted earnings per share (USD 000) 168,228 138,406 Weighted average of ordinary shares outstanding during the year (in thousands) 69,361 69,927 Adjustments for: – Share options and restricted shares (in thousands) 3,596 3,012 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share (in thousands) 72,957 72,939 Diluted earnings per share (USD per share) 2.31 1.90 13. NET DEBT ANALYSIS 2018 2017 USD 000 USD 000 Cash at bank and in hand 189,915 103,452 Short term deposits 89,896 46,455 Other short term liquid investments 7,628 17,948 Cash and cash equivalents* 287,439 167,855 Borrowings – repayable within one year (note 19) (107,797) (5,885) Borrowings – repayable after one year (note 19) (706,278) (434,299) Cross currency swaps – cash flow hedges (note 15) (19,172) (27,621) Net Debt (545,808) (299,950) * Included in cash and cash equivalents, is USD 6.8 million (2017: USD 6.3 million) that are held in jurisdictions where regulatory exchange controls exist and, therefore, are not available for general use by the Group outside of such jurisdiction at the reporting date. 158 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Changes in liabilities from financing activities Cross currency swaps – Other Borrowings Borrowings Principal liabilities short term long term Total USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 At 31 December 2016 (18,319) (1,759) (102,780) (269,182) (392,040) Cash flows (82) 3,561 125,719 (148,781) (19,583) Acquisition of business – – (11,551) – (11,551) Fair value and foreign exchange movement (9,220) – (7,923) (15,902) (33,045) Other non-cash movements – (3,036) (9,350) (434) (12,820) At 31 December 2017 (27,621) (1,234) (5,885) (434,299) (469,039) Cash flows – 13,245 8,463 (374,418) (352,710) Fair value and foreign exchange movement 8,449 – 5,228 (4,202) 9,475 Other non-cash movements – (13,826) (115,603) 106,641 (22,788) At 31 December 2018 (19,172) (1,815) (107,797) (706,278) (835,062) 14. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 2018 2017 USD 000 USD 000 Trade receivables 230,691 93,498 Contract assets (note 8) 37,488 – Loss allowance (5,710) (9,019) Trade receivables and contract assets – net 262,469 84,479 Accrued income* – 156,096 VAT and other taxation recoverable 9,296 8,649 Other receivables 6,961 4,610 Prepayments 15,656 15,177 Total trade and other receivables 294,382 269,011 Less non-current portion (10,987) (10,379) Total current trade and other receivables 283,395 258,632 * Accrued income is now classified as trade receivables or contract assets in accordance with the new definition under IFRS 15 adopted effective 1 January 2018. Trade and other receivables are recognized initially at the transaction price or at fair value if they contain a significant financing component. The Group holds the trade receivables with the objective to collect the contractual cash flows and therefore measures them subsequently at amortized cost using the effective interest method. As the total carrying amount of the current portion of the trade and other receivables is due within the next 12 months after the reporting date, the impact of applying the effective interest method is not significant and, therefore, the carrying amount equals to the contractual amount or the fair value initially recognized. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of financial assets mentioned above. The Group’s exposure to credit and market risk is disclosed in note 3.2. Fair values of the trade and other receivables qualified as financial assets and measured at amortized cost. Carrying amount Fair value 2018 2017 2018 2017 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 Current trade and other receivables 263,913 240,643 263,913 240,643 Non-current trade and other receivables. 10,987 10,379 10,692 10,057 274,900 251,022 274,605 250,700 The carrying amounts of the current trade and other receivables approximate their fair value. The fair value measurement of the non-current trade and other receivables is based on a discounted cash flow approach using a free-risk yield curve adjusted for credit risk and is within level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 159 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 December 2018 continued 14. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES CONTINUED Movements in the provision for impairment The allowance account is used for impairment of trade receivables and contract assets. The Group has not recognized any impairment on any other classes of assets. Comparatives for 2017 represents the provision for impairment losses on trade receivables under IAS 39. Loss allowance 2018 2017 USD 000 USD 000 Balance at 1 January under IAS 39 9,019 10,230 Reclassification** (5,809) – Balance at 1 January under IFRS 9 3,210 10,230 Increase in loss allowance 2,926 3,064 Used amounts (356) (3,505) Recoveries – (251) Unused amounts (52) (529) Exchange (loss) or gain (18) 10 Balance at 31 December 5,710 9,019 ** Reclassification out of the bad debt provision on 1 January 2018 is related to amounts provided for in last year’s provision that are not credit risk related. As they relate to open customer contracts as of 1 January 2018, these amounts were reclassified from the provision balance and netted against the related receivable and contract assets as per the variable consideration guidance under IFRS 15. Included in ‘Sales and marketing’, is USD 2.9 million (2017: USD 11.1 million) of impairment loss related to trade receivables and contract assets. 15. OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES 2018 2017 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 Forward foreign exchange contracts – cash flow hedges 2,787 1,360 1,664 2,017 Forward foreign exchange contracts – held for trading 4,215 1,087 2,464 1,298 Cross currency swaps – cash flow hedges – 19,172 – 27,621 Equity securities at FVOCI 15,000 – – – At 31 December 22,002 21,619 4,128 30,936 Reported as follows: Current 6,579 2,234 3,967 3,184 Non-current 15,423 19,385 161 27,752 At 31 December 22,002 21,619 4,128 30,936 The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of the derivative assets as reported in the statement of financial position. Equity securities represent investment in NuoDB, a distributed SQL database provider headquartered in the US, that were acquired in December 2018. They are designated and measured at FVOCI as the Group intends to hold them for strategic purposes. 160 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements 16. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Fixtures Leasehold fittings & Land and improvements Vehicles equipment buildings Total Year ended 31 December 2018 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 COST At 1 January 2018 15,085 515 48,039 2,657 66,296 Foreign currency exchange differences (515) (24) (2,361) (177) (3,077) Additions 984 137 7,111 – 8,232 Acquisition of business (note 6) – – 825 – 825 Retirements/Disposals (204) (19) (810) – (1,033) 31 December 2018 15,350 609 52,804 2,480 71,243 DEPRECIATION AND IMPAIRMENT At 1 January 2018 12,493 374 36,602 442 49,911 Foreign currency exchange differences (451) (15) (1,795) (33) (2,294) Charge for the year 1,013 60 5,505 46 6,624 Retirements/Disposals (204) (19) (796) – (1,019) 31 December 2018 12,851 400 39,516 455 53,223 NET BOOK VALUE 31 December 2018 2,499 209 13,288 2,025 18,021 Year ended 31 December 2017 COST At 1 January 2017 14,266 471 45,337 2,524 62,598 Foreign currency exchange differences 497 20 2,199 133 2,849 Additions 1,035 42 4,706 – 5,783 Acquisition of business 180 – 300 – 480 Retirements/Disposals (893) (18) (4,503) – (5,414) 31 December 2017 15,085 515 48,039 2,657 66,296 DEPRECIATION AND IMPAIRMENT At 1 January 2017 11,857 320 34,260 373 46,810 Foreign currency exchange differences 339 10 1,627 22 1,998 Charge for the year 1,100 55 5,149 47 6,351 Retirements/Disposals (803) (11) (4,434) – (5,248) 31 December 2017 12,493 374 36,602 442 49,911 NET BOOK VALUE 31 December 2017 2,592 141 11,437 2,215 16,385 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 161 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 December 2018 continued 17. INTANGIBLE ASSETS Internally generated software development Computer Customer costs Goodwill software related Total Year ended 31 December 2018 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 COST At 1 January 2018 435,373 521,671 185,555 157,899 1,300,498 Foreign currency exchange differences (4,255) (27,156) (7,176) (6,863) (45,450) Additions 52,625 – 4,115 – 56,740 Acquisition of business (note 6) – 134,066 54,148 87,400 275,614 Retirements/Disposals – – (4,996) – (4,996) 31 December 2018 483,743 628,581 231,646 238,436 1,582,406 AMORTIZATION At 1 January 2018 291,605 – 124,899 88,033 504,537 Foreign currency exchange differences (3,197) – (4,871) (4,062) (12,130) Charge for the year 44,875 – 25,443 15,804 86,122 Retirements/Disposals – – (4,996) – (4,996) 31 December 2018 333,283 – 140,475 99,775 573,533 NET BOOK VALUE 31 December 2018 150,460 628,581 91,171 138,661 1,008,873 Year ended 31 December 2017 COST At 1 January 2017 375,059 440,066 150,906 127,900 1,093,931 Foreign currency exchange differences 9,846 52,654 13,349 14,318 90,167 Additions 50,468 – 3,018 – 53,486 Acquisition of business – 28,951 18,850 15,681 63,482 Retirements/Disposals – – (568) – (568) 31 December 2017 435,373 521,671 185,555 157,899 1,300,498 AMORTIZATION At 1 January 2017 244,934 – 93,669 65,231 403,834 Foreign currency exchange differences 6,750 – 7,805 8,005 22,560 Charge for the year 39,921 – 23,938 14,797 78,656 Retirements/Disposals – – (513) – (513) 31 December 2017 291,605 – 124,899 88,033 504,537 NET BOOK VALUE 31 December 2017 143,768 521,671 60,656 69,866 795,961 Amortization charge of USD 82.1 million (2017: USD 74.9 million) is included in the ‘Cost of sales’ line; USD 0.3 million (2017: USD 0.3 million) in ‘Sales and marketing’ line; USD 1 million (2017: USD 1.3 million) in ‘Other operating expenses’ line and USD 2.7 million (2017: USD 2.2 million) in ‘General and administrative’ line. 162 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Impairment tests for goodwill Goodwill is allocated to the ‘Product’ reportable segment. 2018 2017 Carrying Carrying amount Growth rate Discount rate amount Growth rate Discount rate USD 000 % % USD 000 % % ‘Product’ segment 628,581 1 10.75 521,671 1 10.17 628,581 521,671 The recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit (CGU) is determined based on value-in-use calculations. These calculations use pre-tax cash flow projections based on the most recent financial budget approved by the management covering a four-year period (2017: a four-year period) and then inflated over a perpetual period using the estimated growth rate assigned to the countries where the cash-generating unit operates. The growth rate does not exceed the long term average growth rate for the software industry in which the CGU performs its operations. The growth rate and the pre-tax discount rate used in the calculation are presented above. Budgeted cash flow projections are determined based on the expectation of the future client signings of the Group’s current pipeline. Budgeted gross margin is based on expectations of market development and efficiency leverage. Management believes that any reasonable change in any of the key assumptions on which the recoverable amount is based would not cause the reported carrying amount to exceed the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit. The discount rate represents the Group’s Weighted Average Cost of Capital adjusted for tax effect to determinate the pre-tax rate as required by IFRS. 18. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES 2018 2017 USD 000 USD 000 Trade payables 30,883 24,912 Accrued expenses 116,176 86,228 Other payables 15,993 13,512 Total trade and other payables 163,052 124,652 Less non-current portion – – Total current trade and other payables 163,052 124,652 Except for contingent consideration, trade and other payables are initially recorded at fair value and subsequently measured at amortized cost. As the total carrying amount is due within the next 12 months from the balance sheet date, the impact of applying the effective interest method is not significant and, therefore, the carrying amount equals to the contractual amount or the fair value initially recognized. Fair values of the trade and other payables qualified as financial liabilities and measured at amortized cost. Carrying amount Fair value 2018 2017 2018 2017 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 Current trade and other payables 159,880 121,240 159,880 121,240 Non-current trade and other payables – – – – 159,880 121,240 159,880 121,240 The carrying amounts of the current trade and other payables is considered to be at their fair value, due to their short term nature. The carrying amounts of the current trade and other payables measured at fair value as well as their level in the fair value hierarchy are disclosed in note 3.4. Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 163 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 December 2018 continued 19. BORROWINGS 2018 2017 USD 000 USD 000 CURRENT Other loans 75 58 Unsecured bonds 107,722 5,827 107,797 5,885 NON-CURRENT Other loans 86 145 Bank borrowings 200,000 – Unsecured bonds 506,192 434,154 706,278 434,299 Total borrowings 814,075 440,184 Fair values of the borrowings Carrying amount Fair value 2018 2017 2018 2017 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 Other loans 161 203 172 197 Bank Borrowings 200,000 – 200,014 – Unsecured bonds 613,914 439,981 608,435 449,149 814,075 440,184 808,621 449,346 The fair value measurement of other loans and bank borrowings is based on a discounted cash flow method using the LIBOR interest curve adjusted for credit risk and is within level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. The fair value measurement of the bonds is derived from their quotation on the SIX Swiss Exchange and is within level 1 of the fair value hierarchy. The carrying amounts of the borrowings are denominated in the following currencies: 2018 2017 USD 000 USD 000 Swiss francs 613,914 439,981 US dollars 200,000 – Other currencies 161 203 814,075 440,184 Unsecured bonds The Group holds the following unsecured bonds: >> CHF 100 million with a coupon of 2% paid annually on 31 January. The bond will mature on 31 January 2019 at par and was issued in 2014; >> CHF 175 million with a coupon of 2% paid annually on 17 June. The bond will mature on 17 June 2022 at par and was issued in 2015; and >> CHF 175 million with a coupon of 1.875% paid annually on 30 November. The bond will mature on 30 November 2023 at par and was issued in 2018; and >> CHF 150 million with a coupon of 1.75% paid annually on 5 April. The bond will mature on 5 April 2024 at par and was issued in 2017. Bank facilities The Group holds a multicurrency revolving facility of USD 500 million. The pertinent details are as follows: >> Interest at LIBOR plus margin adjustment, which is calculated by reference to financial covenants; >> The facility terminates on 19 February 2021; and >> Commitment fees are due on the undrawn portion. As at 31 December 2018, a total of USD 200 million (2017: nil) was drawn under this new agreement. The facility is subject to financial covenants which have been adhered to during the reported periods. 164 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements 20. TAXATION Tax expense 2018 2017 USD 000 USD 000 Current tax on profits for the year 29,591 24,469 Adjustments in respect of prior years (1,150) 1,063 Total current tax 28,441 25,533 Deferred tax – origination and reversal of temporary differences (1,268) (2,990) Total tax expense 27,173 22,542 Temenos AG is incorporated in Switzerland but the Group operates in various countries with various tax laws and rates. Consequently, the effective tax rate may vary from period to period to reflect the generation of taxable income in tax jurisdictions. A reconciliation between the reported income tax expense and the amount computed using a basic Swiss statutory corporate tax rate of 24.1% (2017: 24.1%), is as follows: 2018 2017 USD 000 USD 000 Profit before tax 195,401 160,948 Tax at the domestic rate of 24.1% 47,092 38,789 Non-taxable income and expenses (14,601) (39,915) Net deferred tax impact on utilisation and recognition on losses 1,944 2,786 Tax adjustments related to prior periods (1,150) 1,063 Reversal of deferred tax assets on intellectual property 42 56 Non-taxable consolidation adjustment on intellectual property amortization (3,775) (5,374) Other movement on deferred tax assets and liabilities, including rate changes 522 (458) Effects of different tax rates (6,262) 17,926 Overseas withholding tax 4,454 4,249 Other tax and credits (1,093) 3,420 Total tax expense 27,173 22,542 There is no income tax expense or tax credit arising relating to components of other comprehensive income (2017: USD nil). Due to the adoption of the IFRS 15 standard, a net tax charge of USD 159 thousand is directly posted to equity (2017: USD nil). Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same fiscal authority. Deferred tax assets and liabilities shown in the consolidated balance sheet are as follows: 2018 2017 USD 000 USD 000 Deferred tax assets – to be recovered after more than 12 months 17,562 10,144 Deferred tax assets – to be recovered within 12 months 101 11,799 Deferred tax assets 17,663 21,943 Deferred tax liabilities – to be recovered after more than 12 months (35,633) (14,107) Deferred tax liabilities – to be recovered within 12 months (1,961) (1,301) Deferred tax liabilities (37,594) (15,408) Net deferred tax (liabilities)/assets (19,931) 6,535 An assessment of the realizability of deferred tax assets is made on a country by country basis, based on the weight of available evidence including factors such as recent earnings history and expected future taxable income. Deferred tax assets are recognized to the extent that realization of the related tax benefit through the future taxable profits is probable. Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 165 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 December 2018 continued 20. TAXATION CONTINUED Tax expense continued The Group has not recognized deferred tax assets of USD 34,445 thousand (2017: USD 55,866 thousand) in respect of losses amounting to USD 189,780 thousand (2017: USD 457,686 thousand) that can be carried forward against future taxable income. Losses amounting to USD 90,877 thousand (2017: USD 209,631 thousand) will expire within the next 5 years, USD 22,836 thousand (2017: USD 54,417 thousand) will expire within 5 to 10 years and USD 9,922 thousand (2017: USD 10,254 thousand) will expire within 10 to 20 years. There are no unrecognized deferred tax liabilities. The Group has recognized deferred tax assets of USD 162 thousand (2017: USD 204 thousand) in respect of temporary differences arising on an intra-group transfer of intellectual property. The gross movement on the deferred income tax account is as follows: 2018 2017 USD 000 USD 000 At 1 January 6,535 2,383 Income statement credit 1,267 2,990 Foreign currency exchange differences (183) (1,864) Acquisition of business (27,550) 3,025 At 31 December (19,931) 6,535 The movement in deferred tax assets is as follows: Taxable Tax intellectual Taxable losses property goodwill Other Total USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 At 1 January 2017 18,332 260 409 – 19,001 Credited (charged) to the profit/(loss) (1,295) (56) (121) – (1,472) Acquisition of business – – – 4,162 4,162 Foreign currency exchange differences 43 – – 209 252 At 31 December 2017 17,080 204 288 4,371 21,943 Credited (charged) to the profit/(loss) (2,237) (42) (475) 356 (2,397) Acquisition of business – – – – – Transfer to deferred tax liability – – 187 (1,343) (1,156) Foreign currency exchange differences (332) – (0) (394) (726) At 31 December 2018 14,511 162 0 2,990 17,663 The movement in deferred tax liabilities is as follows: Intangible fair value adjustment Other Total USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 At 1 January 2017 (16,262) (355) (16,617) Credited to the profit/(loss) 5,496 (1,034) 4,462 Acquisition of business (1,137) – (1,137) Foreign currency exchange differences (2,064) (52) (2,116) At 31 December 2017 (13,967) (1,441) (15,408) Credited to the profit/(loss) 4,249 (584) 3,665 Acquisition of business (25,800) (1,750) (27,550) Transfer from deferred tax asset – 1,156 1,156 Foreign currency exchange differences 512 31 543 At 31 December 2018 (35,006) (2,588) (37,594) 166 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements 21. PROVISIONS FOR OTHER LIABILITIES AND CHARGES Legal Property Termination provision provision benefits Total USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 At 1 January 2018 400 289 2,634 3,323 Foreign currency exchange differences (15) (18) (23) (56) Increase in provisions recognized in profit or loss – 524 – 524 Acquisition of business (note 6) – – 430 430 Used during the year (82) (149) (2,281) (2,512) Unused amounts reversed during the year (61) (3) (123) (188) 31 December 2018 242 642 636 1,520 Reported as follows: 2018 Current 242 381 636 1,259 Non-current – 261 – 261 31 December 2018 242 642 636 1,520 2017 Current 400 51 2,634 3,085 Non-current – 238 – 238 31 December 2017 400 289 2,634 3,323 Legal provision The amounts represent provisions for certain legal claims brought against the Group. The balance at 31 December 2018 is expected to be utilized in 2019. Management believes that the outcome of these legal claims will not give rise to any significant loss beyond the amounts provided at 31 December 2018. Property provision The amounts represent the net present value of the estimated future costs associated with onerous leases and dilapidations. Provision for onerous lease represents the lowest cost to exit the lease contract. Provision for dilapidations represents the estimated costs to be incurred at the date of exit. The non-current portion has not been discounted as the effect of the time value was not material. The non-current portion of USD 261 thousand relates to dilapidation costs that will be settled when the related leases are terminated which is not expected to occur within the next 12 months. Termination benefits The amounts represent the benefits payable for the period with no future economic benefits to the Group. The carrying amount is expected to be fully utilized in 2019. Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 167 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 December 2018 continued 22. RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS The Group maintains defined contribution plans for its employees of which many are state-sponsored. The relevant contributions are charged to the statement of profit or loss when incurred. No assets or liabilities are recognized in the Group’s statement of financial position in respect of such plans, apart from prepayments and accruals not settled at the reporting date. In certain countries, the Group has a legal obligation to make one-time payments to employees reaching retirement age or departing. Such gratuities are based on the amount of the employees’ final salary and their length of service. With the exception of India, these plans are unfunded. These plans are categorized as defined benefit plans. The Swiss funded defined benefit pension plans represent the principal portion of the Group’s defined benefit obligation at the reporting periods. Pension plans in Switzerland Swiss based plans entitle retired employees to receive either a capital or an annual pension payment. Final benefit is based on retirement savings accumulated over the working life period of the employees. The plans are administrated by separate funds that are legally separated from the entity. One plan is funded through institutional investments and one plan is funded by the conclusion of an insurance contract. Swiss based pension plans are governed by the Swiss Federal Law on Occupational Retirement, Survivors’ and Disability Pension Plans (LPP), which stipulates that pension plans are to be managed by independent and legally autonomous units. Plan participants are insured against the financial consequences of old age, disability and death. The various insurance benefits are governed in regulations, with the LPP specifying the minimum benefits that are to be provided. The employer and employees pay contributions to the pension plan. In case the plan’s statutory funding falls below a certain level, various measures can be taken such as the increase of the current contribution, lowering the interest rate on the retirement account balances or a reduction of the additional prospective benefits. The employer can also make additional restructuring contributions. The Swiss based pension plans are administrated by a legal collective foundation under the supervision and management of one of the leading insurance company for pension plans based in Switzerland. The Board of Trustee is composed of equal numbers of employee and employer representatives. Its responsibilities are to set-out the strategy of the plans, approve the budget for the administrative expenses etc. Each individual plan is then governed by a sub-committee that is equally composed of representatives of employer and plan participants. The primary objective of this committee is to implement the investment strategy set out by the Board of Trustee. It mainly consists of determining the asset allocation, the investment structure and approving the delegation to an asset manager. The committee is also responsible for the appropriation of the prospective result within the framework set out by the LPP. As all the plans within the Group are not exposed to materially different risks and as a significant portion of the Group’s obligation is contributed by the Swiss plans, the management has decided not to present additional disaggregation of the disclosures presented below unless explicitly required by IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’. The amounts recognized in the statement of financial position at 31 December are as follows: 2018 2017 USD 000 USD 000 Present value of funded obligations 47,864 40,884 Fair value of plan assets (41,612) (36,942) Deficit of funded plans 6,252 3,942 Present value of unfunded obligations 4,068 3,794 Net liability in the statement of financial position 10,320 7,736 168 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements The movement in the net defined benefit liability (asset) over the year is as follows: Present value Fair value of Effect of of obligation plan assets Total asset ceiling Total USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 BALANCE AT 1 JANUARY 2018 44,678 (36,942) 7,736 – 7,736 Current service costs 2,606 – 2,606 – 2,606 Past service costs 214 – 214 – 214 Other cost – 38 38 – 38 Interest expense/(income) 608 (452) 156 – 156 3,428 (414) 3,014 – 3,014 Remeasurements (included in OCI): – Return on plan assets, excluding interest income – 1,126 1,126 – 1,126 – Actuarial loss (gain) from: – demographic assumptions 859 – 859 – 859 – financial assumptions (863) – (863) – (863) – experience adjustment 1,168 – 1,168 – 1,168 1,164 1,126 2,290 – 2,290 – Exchange differences (810) 672 (138) – (138) Contributions: – Employers – (2,582) (2,582) – (2,582) – Plan participants 1,104 (1,104) – – – Payment from/to plans: – Benefit paid 2,368 (2,368) – – – 2,662 (5,382) (2,720) – (2,720) BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 2018 51,932 (41,612) 10,320 – 10,320 BALANCE AT 1 JANUARY 2017 39,141 (29,965) 9,176 – 9,176 Current service costs 2,467 – 2,467 – 2,467 Past service costs (1,162) – (1,162) – (1,162) Other cost 102 18 120 – 120 Interest expense/(income) 537 (336) 201 – 201 1,944 (318) 1,626 – 1,626 Remeasurements (included in OCI): – Return on plan assets, excluding interest income – (1,846) (1,846) – (1,846) – Actuarial loss (gain) from: – demographic assumptions 202 – 202 – 202 – financial assumptions (310) – (310) – (310) – experience adjustment 1,140 – 1,140 – 1,140 1,032 (1,846) (814) – (814) – Exchange differences 1,924 (1,470) 454 – 454 Contributions: – Employers – (2,706) (2,706) – (2,706) – Plan participants 862 (862) – – – Payment from/to plans: – Benefit paid (225) 225 – – – 2,561 (4,813) (2,252) – (2,252) BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 44,678 (36,942) 7,736 – 7,736 The defined benefit obligation is calculated using the projected unit credit method. This reflects service rendered by employees to the date of valuation and incorporates actuarial assumptions primarily regarding discount rates used and projected rates of remuneration growth. The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds or government bonds in countries where there is not a deep market in corporate bonds. Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 169 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 December 2018 continued 22. RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS CONTINUED Plan assets comprise: 2018 2017 Equity securities: – Quoted 19% 18% – Unquoted 0% 0% Fixed income securities: – Quoted 15% 15% – Unquoted 0% 0% Real estate 12% 11% Insurance contracts 48% 54% Other 6% 2% 100% 100% The committee of each plan annually performs an asset-liability assessment. The objective of such assessment is to select an appropriate asset allocation to match cash flows of the assets with the plan obligations while maximizing the return and minimizing the risk. Actuarial assumptions: These defined benefit plans expose the Group to actuarial risks, such as currency risk, interest rate risk and market risk (investment risk). Actuarial assumptions are based on the requirement set out by IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’. They are unbiased and mutually compatible estimates of variables that determine the ultimate cost of providing post-employment benefits. They are based on market expectations at the reporting date for the period over which the obligations are to be settled. They are set on an annual basis by independent actuaries. Actuarial assumptions consist of demographic assumptions such as employee turnover, disability, mortality and financial assumptions such as interest rates, salary growth and consumer price inflation. The actuarial assumptions vary based upon local economic and social conditions. The following are the principal actuarial assumptions at the reporting date (expressed as weighted averages): 2018 2017 Discount rate 1.82% 1.46% Inflation 0.78% 0.66% Future salary growth 2.37% 2.36% Sensitivity analysis: The sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to changes in the principal assumption is: 2018 Change in Increase Decrease assumption USD 000 USD 000 Discount rate 50bps (2,514) 2,794 Future salary growth 0.50% 588 (562) 2017 Change in Increase Decrease assumption USD 000 USD 000 Discount rate 50bps (1,989) 2,136 Future salary growth 0.50% 558 (568) The sensitivity analysis are based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. In practice, this is unlikely to occur since some of the assumptions are correlated. The sensitivity analysis have been calculated using the same methodology as applied when determining the pension liability in the statement of financial position. Expected contributions to post-employment defined benefit plans for the year ending 31 December 2019 are USD 2.6 million. At 31 December 2018, the weighted-average duration of the defined benefit obligation was 10 years (2017: 12 years). 170 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements 23. SHARE CAPITAL As at 31 December 2018, the issued shares of Temenos AG comprised 71,044,267 ordinary shares of a nominal value of CHF 5 each. All issued shares are fully paid. The changes in the number of issued and outstanding shares in the year ended 31 December 2018 are summarized below: Number Total number of shares issued, as at 31 December 2017 70,849,924 Treasury shares (1,775,516) Total number of shares outstanding, as at 31 December 2017 69,074,408 Creation of new ordinary shares out of conditional capital for share-based payment transactions 194,343 Disposal of treasury shares for share-based payment transactions 1,313,902 Acquisition of treasury shares (share buy-back) (1,342,653) Total number of shares outstanding, as at 31 December 2018 69,240,000 As at 31 December 2018, the number of treasury shares held by the Group amounted to 1,804,267 (2017: 1,775,516). Temenos AG also has conditional and authorized capital, comprising: Authorized shares available until 10 May 2019 13,900,000 Conditional shares that may be issued on the exercise of share-based payment transactions 6,805,657 Conditional shares that may be issued in conjunction with financial instruments 6,607,904 24. SHARE PREMIUM AND OTHER RESERVES Negative premium Employee Discount arising on share on shares creation of Share options issued to Temenos premium reserve employees Group AG Total USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 Balance at 1 January 2017 115,924 174,095 (375,812) (68,456) (154,249) Cost of share options (note 26) – 32,661 – – 32,661 Exercise of share-based payment transactions 106,098 – (170,593) – (64,495) Costs associated with equity transactions (204) – – – (204) Balance at 31 December 2017 221,818 206,756 (546,405) (68,456) (186,287) Cost of share options (note 26) – 38,018 – – 38,018 Exercise of share-based payment transactions 22,753 – (162,498) – (139,745) Costs associated with equity transactions (1,081) – – – (1,081) Balance at 31 December 2018 243,490 244,774 (708,903) (68,456) (289,095) Share premium The share premium primarily includes the following transactions: >> Premium on issuance of new shares at a price above the par value; >> The equity component determined at the issuance of the convertible bond in 2006 and the premium resulting from the early redemption occurred in 2010; >> Expenses associated with equity transactions; and >> Gains or losses on the sale, issuance or cancellation of treasury shares. Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 171 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 December 2018 continued 24. SHARE PREMIUM AND OTHER RESERVES CONTINUED Share options reserve As detailed in note 26, the Group has issued instruments to employees. The fair value of these instruments is charged to the statement of profit or loss over the period that the related service is received, with a corresponding credit made to the share options reserve. Discount on shares issued to employees As detailed in note 26, the Group has issued instruments to employees. When the instruments are exercised, the Group fulfills its obligations by issuing newly created shares out of conditional capital or by reissuing treasury shares purchased by the Group. To the extent that the consideration received by the Group in respect of these shares issued or reissued are less than their fair value at the time of exercise, this amount is allocated to discount on shares issued to employees. Negative premium arising on creation of Temenos AG Temenos AG was incorporated on 7 June 2001. The issued and outstanding shares of Temenos Holdings Limited (previously known as Temenos Holdings NV) were exchanged shortly before the initial public offering for Temenos AG shares, thus rendering Temenos Holdings Limited a wholly owned subsidiary of Temenos AG. The number of shares acquired was 40,104,336 which prior to the exchange had a nominal value of USD 0.001 per share, totaling USD 39 thousand. The new shares in Temenos AG were issued at nominal value of CHF 5 which resulted in a negative premium of USD 113,538 thousand. Expenses related to the initial public offering of Temenos AG, and share premium items arising prior to the creation of Temenos AG, were recorded against this account. A deficit of USD 62,277 thousand was recorded to share premium on the cancellation of shares repurchased in 2000. This was transferred into ‘negative premium arising on creation of Temenos AG’ during the period ended 31 December 2001. 25. OTHER EQUITY Fair value gains/ Cumulative AvailableFinancial asset (losses) on translation for-sale at qualifying cash adjustment Investment FVOCI flow hedges Total USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 Balance at 1 January 2017 (125,803) 18 – (5,383) (131,168) Currency translation differences 41,196 – – – 41,196 Transfer to profit or loss within ‘Personnel costs’ – – – (256) (256) Transfer to profit or loss within ‘Software licensing revenue’ – – – 494 494 Transfer to deferred revenues – – – 1,115 1,115 Transfer to finance costs – (18) – 6,041 6,023 Net fair value loss – – – (10,745) (10,745) Balance at 31 December 2017 (84,607) – – (8,734) (93,341) Change in fair value of equity investments at FVOCI – – – – – Currency translation differences (32,883) – – – (32,883) Foreign currency risk Transfer to profit or loss within ‘Personnel costs’ – – – 429 429 Transfer to profit or loss within ‘Software licensing revenue’ – – – (1,309) (1,309) Transfer to ‘Deferred revenues’ – – – (2,049) (2,049) Transfer to profit or loss within ‘finance costs’ – – – (5,527) (5,527) Changes in fair value of hedging instruments – – – 13,189 13,189 Balance at 31 December 2018 (117,490) – – (4,001) (121,491) Cumulative translation reserve It comprises all the foreign currency differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of the foreign operations into US dollars. Financial assets measured at FVOCI It comprises the cumulative net change in fair value of equity instruments measured at FVOCI (note 15) (2017: available-for-sale investment). Fair value gains/(losses) on qualifying cash flow hedges It comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in fair value of hedging instruments used in cash flow hedges that are not yet recognized in profit or loss or as part of the carry amount of a non-financial assets or a non-financial liabilities. 172 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements 26. SHARE BASED PAYMENTS Share options Share options are granted to executive board members and selected employees. Share options are conditional on the employee completing a specified period of service (the vesting period). The vesting period for the unvested options is a minimum of three years and the options have a contractual term of ten years. The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to repurchase or settle the options in cash. A summary of the movements in the number of share options outstanding and their related weighted average exercise prices are as follows: 2018 2017 Weighted Weighted average average Number of exercise Number of exercise options price options price Outstanding at the beginning of the year 3,000 $31.94 3,000 $31.94 Forfeited during the year – $0.00 – n/a Exercised during the year – $0.00 – n/a Outstanding at the end of the year 3,000 $30.74 3,000 $31.94 All of the outstanding options (2017: 3,000) were exercisable at the balance sheet date with a weighted average exercise price of USD 30.74 (2017: USD 31.94). No options were exercised in 2018, nor in 2017. Share appreciation rights Share appreciation rights are granted to executive board members and selected employees. Share appreciation rights are conditional on the employee completing a specified period of service and are only exercisable if the Group achieves specified cumulative earnings per share targets. In case of over achievement of earnings per share targets, certain share appreciation right grants may be increased by a maximum of 40% of the original grant. The vesting period for the unvested share appreciation rights is a minimum of three years and the share appreciation rights have a maximum contractual term of ten years. The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to repurchase or settle the share appreciation rights in cash. A summary of the movements in the number of share appreciation rights outstanding and their related weighted average exercise prices are as follows: 2018 2017 Weighted Weighted average average Number of exercise Number of exercise rights price rights price Outstanding at the beginning of the year 7,006,275 $46.89 8,480,851 $32.84 Granted during the year 1,644,992 $99.67 1,977,621 $68.97 Forfeited during the year (35,868) $56.08 (154,000) $42.31 Exercised during the year (2,052,073) $34.78 (3,298,197) -$23.14 Outstanding at the end of the year 6,563,326 $63.82 7,006,275 $46.89 621,893 of the outstanding share appreciation rights (2017: 431,144) were exercisable at the balance sheet date with a weighted average exercise price of USD 25.68 (2017: USD 18.60). The share appreciation rights exercised during the year had a weighted average share price at the time of exercise of USD 131.96 (2017: USD 75.49). As described above, in case of over achievement of earnings per share targets, certain share appreciation right grants may be increased by a maximum of 40% of the original grant. As at 31 December 2018 531,592 SARs have been added to the 2016-2018 plan as a result of overachievement. There are 5,409,841 remaining share appreciation rights (2017: 4,327,760) that may be subject to the over achievement provisions in the future with a weighted average exercise price of USD 70.15 (2017: USD 55.57). Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 173 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 December 2018 continued 26. SHARE BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED Share appreciation rights continued Share options and share appreciation rights outstanding at the end of the year have exercise prices and weighted average remaining contractual lives as follows: Remaining 2018 contractual Exercise price (USD) Number life (years) 0-9.99 15,529 0.17 10-19.99 274,165 3.87 20-29.99 38,501 1.19 30-39.99 770,718 5.96 40-49.99 2,341,019 7.12 50-59.99 240,457 7.47 60-69.99 19,382 7.88 70-79.99 1,628,155 8.12 80-89.99 3,000 8.31 90-99.99 109,000 8.55 100-109.99 16,000 8.70 110-119.99 81,500 9.98 120-129.99 1,019,900 9.13 130-164.00 9,000 9.69 6,566,326 7.44 Remaining 2017 contractual Exercise price (USD) Number life (years) 6.75-13.91 38,112 1.56 14.2-18.1 164,442 4.54 20.28-26.26 202,590 4.27 31.94-36.85 2,647,828 6.64 43.69-49.12 1,973,043 8.10 53.38-65.92 212,660 8.58 70.87-103.74 1,770,600 9.16 7,009,275 7.60 Fair value of stock options and share appreciation rights The fair value of options and share appreciation rights granted during the period is determined using an ‘Enhanced American Pricing Model’. The weighted average fair value of share appreciation rights granted during the period was USD 23.53 (2017: USD 15.99). The significant inputs into the model were: weighted average share price at grant date of USD 99.96 (2017: USD 68.96), weighted average exercise price of USD 99.67 (2017: USD 68.97), standard deviation of expected share price returns of 30% (2017: 30%), weighted average option lives of 3.57 years (2017: 3.81 years), weighted average annual risk-free interest rate of 2.15% (2017: 2%) and weighted average expected dividend yield of 0.77% (2017: 1%). The volatility measured at the standard deviation of expected share price returns is based on statistical analysis of daily share prices over the relevant historical period. 174 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Bonus plan shares 2018 2017 Number of Number of shares shares Outstanding at the beginning of the year 14,521 – Granted during the year 39,163 14,521 Forfeited during the year (5,974) – Exercised during the year – – Outstanding at the end of the year 47,710 14,521 Bonus plan ‘For the year ended 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017 the short term incentive plan in place for the senior management with specific bonus targets were offered a choice of receiving the final bonus in cash or 50% in cash and 50% in deferred shares with 20% uplift. In 2018 7,081 (2017: 14,521) deferred shares were committed under this scheme. The shares committed in 2017 vest on 1 March 2019 and the shares committed in 2018 vest on 1 March 2020. Other Senior staff who fall under the Employee Short term variable plan are paid 50% of their bonus in cash and 50% in shares with 20% uplift. In 2018 31,637 deferred shares were committed under this scheme for the bonus relating to the financial year 2017. These shares will vest on 1 March 2019.’ Expense The total expense recorded in the income statement in respect of employee share options, share appreciation rights, performance and loyalty shares and the profit share plan is USD 38.0 million (2017: USD 32.7 million). 27. DIVIDEND PER SHARE Dividend is proposed by the Board of Directors and must be approved by the Annual General Meeting of the Shareholders. The dividend proposed for the 2018 financial year is amounting to CHF 52 million (CHF 0.75 per share) and it is not yet recorded as a liability. This amount may vary depending on the number of shares outstanding as of the ex-dividend date. The dividend paid in 2018 related to 2017 financial year amounted to CHF 45.8 million (CHF 0.65 per share). Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 175 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 December 2018 continued 28. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES The Group has obligations under operating leases relating to office premises and leased equipment. The leases have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights. Payments recognized as an expense are as follows: 2018 2017 USD 000 USD 000 Lease expense 17,713 16,697 Sub-lease income (1,618) (1,519) 16,095 15,178 The future aggregate minimum lease and sub-lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 2018 2017 USD 000 USD 000 No later than 1 year 15,695 15,299 Later than 1 year and no later than 5 years 37,299 33,568 Later than 5 years 3,960 6,791 Total 56,953 55,657 The Group’s principal contingent liabilities arise from property rental guarantees, performance guarantees and bid bonds issued in the normal course of business. The Group is also involved in various lawsuits, claims, investigations and proceedings incidental to the normal conduct of its operations. These matters mainly include the risks associated with personnel litigation, tax claims and contractual disputes. As at 31 December 2018, the guarantees in issue were USD 10.8 million (2017: USD 11.4 million). Although an estimate of the future financial effects cannot be reliably and precisely estimated at the reporting date, it is not anticipated that any material liabilities will arise from these contingent liabilities other than those provided for in note 21. 29. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS AND BALANCES Remuneration of executive and non-executive directors is described in note 10. Equity compensation for executive and non-executive directors granted in the form of options, stock appreciation rights and shares is described in note 26. There were no other significant transactions with related parties during the year ended 31 December 2018. 30. EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING PERIOD There are no reportable events that occurred after the reporting period. 176 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Report of the statutory auditors on the unconsolidated financial statements Report of the statutory auditor to the General Meeting of Temenos AG, Geneva REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Opinion We have audited the financial statements of Temenos AG, which comprise the balance sheet as at 31 December 2018, income statement and notes for the year then ended, including a summary of significant accounting policies. In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements as at 31 December 2018 comply with Swiss law and the company’s articles of incorporation. Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Swiss law and Swiss Auditing Standards. Our responsibilities under those provisions and standards are further described in the “Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements” section of our report. We are independent of the entity in accordance with the provisions of Swiss law and the requirements of the Swiss audit profession and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Our audit approach Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. Our audit opinion aims to provide reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement. Misstatements may arise due to fraud or error. They are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements. Based on our professional judgment, we determined certain quantitative thresholds for materiality, including the overall materiality for the financial statements as a whole as set out in the table below. These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate, on the financial statements as a whole. Overall materiality CHF 8,500,000 How we determined it 0.5% of total assets Rationale for the materiality benchmark applied We chose total assets as a benchmark to determine the overall materiality as we consider total assets to be the most appropriate measure for a holding company and is a generally accepted benchmark. We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements above CHF 450,000 identified during our audit as well as any misstatements below that amount which, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons. Audit scope We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements. In particular, we considered where subjective judgments were made; for example, in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including among other matters consideration of whether there was evidence of bias that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud. Report on key audit matters based on the circular 1/2015 of the Federal Audit Oversight Authority We have determined that there are no key audit matters to communicate in our report. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors for the financial statements The Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the provisions of Swiss law and the company’s articles of incorporation, and for such internal control as the Board of Directors determines is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the financial statements, the Board of Directors is responsible for assessing the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Board of Directors either intends to liquidate the entity or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 177 Financial statements Report of the statutory auditors on the unconsolidated financial statements continued Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with Swiss law and Swiss Auditing Standards will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. As part of an audit in accordance with Swiss law and Swiss Auditing Standards, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also: >> Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. >> Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control. >> Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made. >> Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the entity to cease to continue as a going concern. We communicate with the Board of Directors or its relevant committee regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. We also provide the Board of Directors or its relevant committee with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. From the matters communicated with the Board of Directors or its relevant committee, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS In accordance with article 728a paragraph 1 item 3 CO and Swiss Auditing Standard 890, we confirm that an internal control system exists which has been designed for the preparation of financial statements according to the instructions of the Board of Directors. We further confirm that the proposed appropriation of available earnings complies with Swiss law and the company’s articles of incorporation. We recommend that the financial statements submitted to you be approved. PricewaterhouseCoopers SA Mike Foley Yazen Jamjum Audit expert Audit expert Auditor in charge Geneva, 19 February 2019 178 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Unconsolidated balance sheet As at 31 December 2018 2017 CHF 000 CHF 000 ASSETS Current assets Liquid funds 8,446 535 Receivables from other group entities 141,260 72,620 Prepayments 355 309 Total current assets 150,062 73,464 Non-current assets Long term receivables from other group entities 202,610 202,610 Investments in subsidiaries (note 2) 1,415,522 1,134,683 Total non-current assets 1,618,132 1,337,293 Total assets 1,768,194 1,410,757 LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY Current liabilities Trade payables 74 388 Payables to other group entities 388 412 Short term interest-bearing liabilities (note 7) 106,021 5,689 Other liabilities 1,046 541 Tax payable 1,366 849 Deferred unrealized exchange gain 1,816 552 Total current liabilities 110,710 8,432 Non-current liabilities Long term interest-bearing liabilities (note 7) 498,197 423,883 Long term interest-bearing payables to other group entities 154,100 154,100 Total non-current liabilities 652,297 577,983 Shareholders’ equity Share capital (note 3) 355,221 354,250 Ordinary legal reserve (note 4) 11,913 11,749 Share premium (note 4) 71,044 70,850 General reserve from capital contributions (note 4) 105,051 150,842 Reserve for treasury shares from share premium (note 4) 170,817 149,449 Reserve for treasury shares (note 4) 90,510 46,275 Retained earnings (note 4) 200,629 40,927 Treasury shares (note 5) – – Total shareholders’ equity 1,005,187 824,343 Total shareholders’ equity and liabilities 1,768,194 1,410,757 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 179 Financial statements Unconsolidated income statement For the year ended 31 December 2018 2017 CHF 000 CHF 000 Income from investments in subsidiaries (note 8) 215,000 12,000 Financial (expense)/income (6,407) (5,446) Expenses associated with the maintenance of the Register of Shareholders and other expenses (3,832) (2,688) Profit before taxation 204,761 3,867 Taxation (660) (580) PROFIT OF THE YEAR 204,101 3,286 180 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Notes to the unconsolidated financial statements 31 December 2018 1. LEGAL STATUS AND PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES Temenos AG (‘the Company’) was incorporated in Glarus, Switzerland on 7 June 2001 as a stock corporation (Aktiengesellschaft). Since 26 June 2001 the shares of Temenos AG have been publicly traded on the SIX Swiss Exchange. Further to approval by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting held on 15 May 2018, the Company’s name was changed from ‘Temenos Group AG’ to ‘Temenos AG’. Temenos AG is the ultimate holding company of the Group and is not otherwise engaged in trading, financing or investing activities, except as the holder of all the issued and outstanding shares of the subsidiaries described in note 2. The financial statements of Temenos AG comply with the requirements of the Swiss Accounting Legislation (Title 32 of the Swiss Code of Obligations (SCO)). For comparability reasons, certain amounts relating to the previous financial year have been reclassified in order to correspond to the presentation for the current year. Valuation principles Assets are valued at no more than their acquisition cost. Investments in subsidiaries are valued individually except when they are combined due to their similarity in terms of activities and geographical location. Treasury shares are valued at historical acquisition value without subsequent valuation adjustment. Gains and losses from disposals of treasury shares are recorded directly in capital reserves. Liabilities are valued at nominal value. All assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated according to the exchange rates applicable on the balance sheet date. Income and expenses denominated in foreign currencies and all foreign exchange transactions are translated at the exchange rates prevailing on their respective transaction dates. Resulting foreign exchange differences are recognized in the income statement, except unrealized gains that are deferred on balance sheet as per the Swiss Code of Obligations. 2. LIST OF DIRECT SUBSIDIARIES The following are the direct subsidiaries of the Company, which are wholly-owned unless otherwise indicated (percentage of voting rights). Voting rights Temenos Holdings Limited, British Virgin Islands (holding company) 40,105 shares of a nominal value of USD 1 each. 100% Temenos Headquarters SA, Switzerland (holding and licensing company) 1,000 shares of a nominal value of CHF 100 each. 100% Temenos Investments BV, Netherlands (holding company) 180 shares of a nominal value of EUR 100 each. 100% Temenos Egypt LLC, Egypt (operating company) 2 shares of a nominal value of EGP 100 each. 50% Temenos Luxembourg SA, Luxembourg (operating company) 47,250 shares of a nominal value of EUR 25 each. 100% Temenos Finance Luxembourg SARL, Luxembourg (financing company) 37,500 shares of a nominal value of EUR 1 each. 100% Temenos UK Limited, United Kingdom (holding and operating company) 10,994,218 shares of a nominal value of GBP 0.20 each. 100% Temenos USA Inc., USA (operating company) 100 shares of a nominal value of USD 0.01 each. 100% Temenos Panama SA, Panama (dormant company) 100 shares of a nominal value of USD 100 each. 100% Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 181 Financial statements Notes to the unconsolidated financial statements 31 December 2018 continued 3. SHARE CAPITAL As at 31 December 2018, the share capital amounts to CHF 355,221,335 and is composed of 71,044,267 shares with a nominal value of CHF 5. The shares issued by the Company during the year are set out below: 2018 2017 Value Value Quantity in CHF Quantity in CHF Total number of Temenos AG shares issued, as at 1 January 70,849,924 354,249,620 69,621,124 348,105,620 Shares issued and allotted under Employee Share Option Schemes 194,343 971,715 1,228,800 6,144,000 Total number of Temenos AG shares issued, as at 31 December 71,044,267 355,221,335 70,849,924 354,249,620 Temenos AG also has conditional and authorized capital, comprising: 2018 Authorized shares that may be issued in the context of acquisition or for the purpose of expanding the scope of shareholders in connection with the quotation of shares on national and foreign stock exchange (available to the Board until 10 May 2019) 13,900,000 Conditional shares that may be issued on the exercise of employee share options 6,805,657 Conditional shares that may be issued in conjunction with financial instruments 6,607,904 The holdings of more than 3% of the voting rights of all registered shares, as at 31 December 2018 are as follows: Martin and Rosmarie Ebner 10.83% The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 10.00% BlackRock, Inc. 5.40% Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company 5.00% Artisan Partners Limited 3.07% Harding Loevner LP 3.02% 182 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements 4. SHARE PREMIUM AND CAPITAL RESERVES Reserve for General treasury Ordinary reserve shares Reserve for Share legal Share from capital from share treasury Retained Treasury capital reserve premium contributions premium shares earnings shares Total CHF 000 CHF 000 CHF 000 CHF 000 CHF 000 CHF 000 CHF 000 CHF 000 CHF 000 Balance at 1 January 2017 348,106 11,353 132,349 189,622 – 65,330 18,982 – 765,742 Appropriation of available earnings: – to General legal reserve – 396 – – – – (396) – – Repayment of ‘General Reserve from Capital Contributions’ as per 2017 Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’) resolution – – – (38,780) – – – – (38,780) Share capital and share premium on creation of conditional capital 6,144 – 87,950 – – – – – 94,094 Reserve for treasury shares movement of the year – – (149,449) – 149,449 (19,055) 19,055 – – Profit of the year – – – – – – 3,286 – 3,286 Balance at 31 December 2017 354,250 11,749 70,850 150,842 149,449 46,275 40,927 – 824,343 Appropriation of available earnings: – to General legal reserve – 164 – – – – (164) – – Repayment of ‘General Reserve from Capital Contributions’ as per 2018 Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’) resolution – – – (45,791) – – – – (45,791) Share capital and share premium on creation of conditional capital 972 – 21,562 – – – – – 22,534 Reserve for treasury shares movement of the year – – (21,368) – 21,368 44,235 (44,235) – – Profit of the year – – – – – – 204,101 – 204,101 Balance at 31 December 2018 355,221 11,913 71,044 105,051 170,817 90,510 200,630 – 1,005,187 The reserve for treasury shares increased to CHF 261,327,209 in line with the value of treasury shares held by Temenos AG through a subsidiary as at 31 December 2018 (2017: CHF 195,724,630). Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 183 Financial statements Notes to the unconsolidated financial statements 31 December 2018 continued 5. TREASURY SHARES, INCLUDING SHARES HELD BY SUBSIDIARIES (CARRYING VALUE) Temenos AG holds directly or through a subsidiary a total of 1,804,267 shares at 31 December 2018 (2017: 1,775,516) that entirely may be used in conjunction with M&A, for resale or for allotting to members of the Temenos Employee Share Option Schemes. 2018 2017 Value Value Quantity in CHF 000 Quantity in CHF 000 TEMENOS AG 1 January – – – – Acquisitions – – – – Disposals – – – – 31 December – – – – OTHER CONSOLIDATED COMPANIES 1 January 1,775,516 195,725 1,133,853 65,330 Acquisitions 1,342,653 203,254 1,653,929 187,607 Disposals (1,313,902) (137,651) (1,012,266) (57,212) 31 December 1,804,267 261,327 1,775,516 195,725 Total balance as of 31 December 1,804,267 261,327 1,775,516 195,725 6. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Together with several of its subsidiaries, Temenos AG is a guarantor under the Group facility agreement concluded by Temenos Finance Luxembourg Sarl as borrower, in February 2016 for a maximum total amount up to USD 500 million. 7. BONDS ISSUED BY TEMENOS AG In March 2014, the Group issued a senior unsecured bond with a nominal value of CHF 100 million and a coupon rate of 2.00% paid annually on 31 January. The bond will mature on 31 January 2019 at a redemption price of 100% of the principal amount. In June 2015, the Group issued a senior unsecured bond with a nominal value of CHF 175 million and a coupon rate of 2.00% paid annually on 17 June. The bond will mature on 17 June 2022 at a redemption price of 100% of the principal amount. In April 2017, the Group issued a senior unsecured bond with a nominal value of CHF 150 million and a coupon rate of 1.75% paid annually on 5 April. The bond will mature on 5 April 2024 at a redemption price of 100% of the principal amount. In November 2018, the Group issued a senior unsecured bond with a nominal value of CHF 175 million and a coupon rate of 1.875% paid annually on 30 November. The bond will mature on 30 November 2023 at a redemption price of 100% of the principal amount. 2018 2017 CHF 000 CHF 000 Bond CHF 100,000,000 – 2.000% – 31 March 2014 – 31 January 2019 – 99,931 Bond CHF 175,000,000 – 2.000% – 17 June 2015 – 17 June 2022 174,715 174,634 Bond CHF 150,000,000 – 1.750% – 5 April 2017 – 5 April 2024 149,424 149,317 Bond CHF 175,000,000 – 1.875% – 30 November 2018 – 30 November 2023 174,058 – Long term interest-bearing liabilities 498,197 423,883 Bond CHF 100,000,000 – 2.000% – 31 March 2014 – 31 January 2019 101,900 – Accrued bond interests at year end 4,121 5,689 Short term interest-bearing liabilities 106,021 5,689 Total bonds issued by Temenos AG 604,218 429,571 184 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements 8. INCOME FROM INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES Temenos AG recognized an income from investments in subsidiaries of CHF 215 million following the decision of one of its direct subsidiaries made in June 2018 to distribute a dividend in relation to the 2018 fiscal year. 9. PROPOSAL FOR THE APPROPRIATION OF AVAILABLE EARNINGS Based on the approved and audited financial statements for the financial year 2018, the Board of Directors proposes to the General Meeting to distribute an ordinary dividend in cash amounting to CHF 0.75 per share, for a total amount of CHF 52,000,000 (this amount may vary depending on the number of treasury shares and of shares created out of the conditional capital as of the ex-dividend date). This distribution shall be declared out of the disposable amount of the General reserve from capital contributions as at 31 December 2018 taking the legal form of an ordinary dividend in cash. From a tax standpoint, this ordinary dividend constitutes a repayment of part of the general reserve from capital contributions. As a result, the General reserve from capital contributions at 31 December 2018, amounting to CHF 105,051,416 will be reduced as follows: 2018 2017 CHF 000 CHF 000 RESERVES FROM CAPITAL CONTRIBUTIONS Balance before distribution 105,051 150,842 Repayment of General reserve from capital contributions* (52,000) (45,791) Balance after distribution 53,051 105,051 RETAINED EARNINGS Retained earnings brought forward 40,763 18,586 Transfer to Reserve for Treasury shares (44,235) 19,055 Net income 204,101 3,286 Retained earnings available for appropriation 200,630 40,927 Appropriation to legal reserves (10,205) (164) Retained earnings to be carried forward 190,425 40,763 * 2017 comparative has been corrected from CHF 45,000,000 to CHF 45,790,915 to reflect the actual payment made in 2018. The dividend paid was CHF 0.65 per share as approved by the General Meeting. The difference is explained by the amount of treasury shares as of the ex-dividend date. Provided that the proposal of the Board of Directors is approved, the shares will be traded ex-dividend as of 17 May 2019 (Ex date). The dividend record date will be set on 20 May 2019 (Record date). The dividend will be payable as of 21 May 2019 (Payment date). Temenos treasury shares are not entitled to dividends. 10. NUMBER OF FULL-TIME EQUIVALENT Temenos AG does not have any employees as of 31 December 2018 and 2017 and consequently no pension liabilities. 11. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION, CASH-FLOW STATEMENT AND MANAGEMENT REPORT According to article 961d paragraph 1 of the Swiss Code of Obligations, additional information, the cash-flow statement and the management report are not presented, as Temenos AG prepares the consolidated financial statements in accordance with a recognized financial reporting standard. 12. SIGNIFICANT EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE These financial statements were approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 12 February 2019 and will be submitted to the Annual General Meeting of shareholders for approval on 15 May 2019. There were no other significant events after the balance sheet date. Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 185 Financial statements Notes to the unconsolidated financial statements 31 December 2018 continued 13. DISCLOSURE OF COMPENSATION AND PARTICIPATIONS AS PER ARTICLE 663C OF THE SWISS CODE OF OBLIGATIONS (SCO) Shareholdings and equity incentives Non-Executive Directors 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Name Position Shares Shares S. Giacoletto-Roggio Vice-Chairman 9,000 11,000 I. Cookson Member 15,500 15,500 T. de Tersant Member 3,000 3,000 E. Hansen Member 11,000 11,000 G. Koukis Member 15,000 – A. Yip Member – – P. Spenser Member – – Executive Chairman and Executive Committee members Shares SARS Number of Number of Exercise unvested unvested Grant price SARs SARs Name Position 2018 2017 year Plan USD 2018 2017 A. Andreades Executive Chairman 582,369 752,629 2014 2 2015 scheme 3 35.45 – 380,949 2016 2016 scheme 1 43.69 325,000 325,000 2016 scheme 1 49.12 46,000 46,000 2017 2017 scheme 70.87 291,900 291,900 2018 2018 scheme 127.00 155,450 – D. Arnott CEO 35,000 57,500 2014 2 2015 scheme 3 35.45 – 507,932 2016 2016 scheme 1 43.69 432,000 432,000 2016 scheme 1 49.12 66,000 66,000 2017 2017 scheme 70.87 354,000 354,000 2018 2018 scheme 127.00 188,520 – M. Chuard CFO/COO 65,000 65,000 2014 2 2015 scheme 3 35.45 – 253,966 2016 2016 scheme 1 43.69 258,000 258,000 2016 scheme 1 49.12 35,000 35,000 2017 2017 scheme 70.87 254,300 254,300 2018 2018 scheme 127.00 135,430 – J. Hilsenkopf CRO 0 na 2018 2018 scheme 127.00 92,000 na A. Loustau CTO 3,673 3,673 2014 2 2015 scheme 3 35.45 – 49,689 2016 2016 scheme 1 43.69 45,000 45,000 2017 2017 scheme 70.87 29,400 29,400 2018 2018 scheme 127.00 27,000 – M. Winterburn CPO 3,975 3,975 2014 2 2015 scheme 3 35.45 65,000 82,815 2016 2016 scheme 1 43.69 45,000 65,000 2017 2017 scheme 70.87 37,000 45,000 2018 2018 scheme 127.00 – (1) The SARs granted under the 2016 scheme vested on 13 February 2019. The numbers above include the overachievement of 121%. (2) The 2015 grant was issued in November 2014 but was considered compensation for 2015. (3) The SARs granted under the 2015 scheme vested on 13 February 2018. The numbers above include the overachievement of 110.42%. No options and/or shares were held on 31 December 2018 and 2017 by persons related to the members of the Board of Directors and of the Executive Committee. 186 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Financial highlights (in millions of US dollars except earnings per share) 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Revenues* 840.9 735.4 634.0 542.5 468.7 Operating expenses (622.1) (557.1) (484.8) (445.7) (350.5) OPERATING PROFIT 218.8 178.3 149.2 96.8 118.2 PROFIT BEFORE TAXATION 195.4 160.9 132.1 78.1 106.3 NET PROFIT AFTER TAX 168.2 138.4 115.8 66.3 91.6 EBITDA 311.5 263.3 225.3 171.2 167.8 DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE (IN USD) 2.31 1.90 1.61 0.95 1.32 CASH GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS 365.1 299.7 257.6 227.2 190.3 Current assets 577.4 430.5 430.2 440.8 427.4 Non-current assets 1,071.0 844.8 741.3 788.2 498.5 TOTAL ASSETS 1,648.4 1,275.3 1,171.5 1,229.0 925.9 Current liabilities (excluding deferred revenues) 312.9 177.8 246.0 143.7 110.4 Deferred revenues (Contract liabilities) 262.9 232.5 216.3 213.2 179.9 Total current liabilities 575.8 410.3 462.4 356.9 290.3 Non-current liabilities 773.8 485.4 310.0 496.8 293.6 Total liabilities 1,349.6 895.8 772.4 853.7 583.9 Total equity 298.8 379.5 399.1 375.3 342.0 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 1,648.4 1,275.3 1,171.5 1,229.0 925.9 * Prior period comparative revenues are not restated to the newly adopted IFRS 15 effective 1 January 2018. Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 187 Financial statements Information for Investors CAPITAL STRUCTURE STATISTICS ON TEMENOS SHARES The registered share capital is divided into 71,044,267 shares with a par value Registered shares of CHF 5 nominal 2018 of CHF 5. Sector Technology/Software APPROPRIATION OF PROFITS Market Segment SIX Main Market Temenos expects to pay a dividend of CHF 0.75 in 2019. Index Member SMIM/SPI/SLI Swiss Security No 124 5391 REGISTER OF SHAREHOLDERS ISIN No CH0012453913 areg.ch ag Symbol TEMN Fabrikstrasse 10 Number of issued shares at 31.12.2018 71,044,267 4614 Hägendorf Number of registered shares at 31.12.2018 71,044,267 Switzerland Market price high/low (CHF) 180.50/106.00 www.areg.ch Market Price 31.12.2017 (CHF) 125.00 Market Price 31.12.2018 (CHF) 117.90 INVESTOR RELATIONS Market Capitalization high/low (CHFm)* 12,788/7,510 Adam Snyder Share capital nominal value at 31.12.2018 (CHFm)* 355 Head of Investor Relations * Based on the number of registered shares at the time. Panagiotis “Takis” Spiliopoulos Chief Financial Officer Key figures per share 2018 Basic earnings per share (USD) 2.43 2, Rue de l’Ecole-de-Chimie Diluted earnings per share (USD) 2.31 1205 Geneva Non-IFRS earnings per share (USD) 2.96 Switzerland Consolidated shareholders’ equity (USDm) 298.8 Consolidated shareholders’ equity per share (USD) 4.21 Phone: +41 (0) 22 708 1150 Fax: +41 (0) 22 708 1160 Email: TemenosIR@temenos.com Major shareholders of Temenos AG* (as of 13.03.2019) ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Number Percentage 15 May 2019 of voting of the share Name rights capital Martin and Rosmarie Ebner 7,695,000 10.83% The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 7,105,217 10.00% BlackRock, Inc. 3,833,868 5.40% Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company 3,014,293 4.24% Artisan Partners Limited Partnership 2,180,153 3.07% * On the basis of Temenos AG registered capital of 71,044,267 shares and based on the disclosure notifications received. Please refer to page 97 for the status as of 31.12.2018 DEVELOPMENT OF THE TEMENOS SHARE PRICE 200 5,000 180 4,000 160 3,000 Price CHF Volume 140 2,000 120 1,000 100 0 Jan-18 Feb-18 Mar-18 Apr-18 Jun-18 Jul-18 Aug-18 May-18 Sep-18 Oct-18 Nov-18 Dec-18 Price CHF Volume 188 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Temenos World Offices The following list is as of March 2019. AMERICAS Mexico For any updated information please visit our website: Mexico City www.temenos.com/contact-us Brazil Temenos Mexico S.A. de C.V. Sao Paulo Paseo de la Reforma No.505 Temenos Software Brasil Ltda Piso 15 Suite 15D Av. Brig Faria Lima, 3144 – 3ro Andar Colonia Cuauhtemoc São Paulo, SP 01451-001 Ciudad de Mexico, 06500 Brazil Mexico Tel: +55 11 3568 2549 Tel: +52 55 3601 4400 Fax: +52 55 3601 4401 Canada Toronto USA Temenos Canada Inc. Boston 2425 Matheson Boulevard East, Suite 400 Igefi US, LLC Mississauga, ON L4W 5K4 100 High Street, Suite 1504 Canada Boston, MA 02110 Tel: +1 905 214 7600 USA Fax: +1 905 214 7699 Tel: +1 617 603 9400 Fax: +1 617 603 9444 Vancouver Temenos Canada Inc. Denver 13450 102nd Avenue Avoka (USA), Inc. Suite 1170 385 Interlocken Crescent, Suite 1050 Surrey, BC V3T5X3 Broomfield, CO 80021 Canada USA Tel: +1 604 501 0331 Tel: +1 303 847 0900 Winnipeg Miami Temenos Canada Inc. Temenos USA, Inc. 201 Portage Avenue, 18th floor 200 South Biscayne Boulevard Winnipeg, MB R3B 3K6 Suite 3580 Canada Miami, FL 33131 Tel: +1 204 926 8590 USA Tel: +1 305 704 5100 Colombia Fax: +1 305 704 5101 Bogota Temenos Colombia S.A.S. New York Calle 93 A #13-24, 5º Piso Igefi US, LLC Bogota, D.C. CP: 110221 Suite 2340, Harborside Plaza 5 Colombia 185 Hudson Street Tel: +57 1 667 2640 Jersey City, NJ 07311 USA Costa Rica Tel: +1 617 603 9400 San Jose Temenos Costa Rica S.A. Temenos USA, Inc. Sabana Norte 101 Crawfords Corner Road Avenida 5, calle 42 y 44 Suite 3131 Edificio Grupo Nueva, Segundo Piso Holmdel, NJ 07733 San Jose USA Costa Rica Tel: +1 610 232 2800 Tel: +506 2543 1200 Fax: +1 610 232 2801 Fax: +506 2543 1297 Orlando Ecuador Temenos USA, Inc. Quito 300 Primera Boulevard Temenos Ecuador S.A. Suite 444 Edificio Orellana 500 Pisos 6 y 7 Lake Mary, FL 32746 Avenida Amazonas 1349 USA y Orellana, Quito Tel: +1 407 732 5200 Ecuador Fax: +1 407 732 5201 Tel: +593 2 400 8400 Fax: +593 2 400 8420 Philadelphia Temenos USA, Inc. 40 General Warren Boulevard Malvern, PA 19355 USA Tel: +1 610 232 2800 Fax: +1 610 232 2801 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 189 Appendix Temenos World Offices continued MIDDLE EAST/AFRICA United Arab Emirates Germany Dubai Frankfurt am Main Egypt Temenos Middle East Ltd Temenos Deutschland GmbH Cairo (UAE Branch) Walther-von-Cronberg-Platz 2, Colosseo Temenos Egypt LLC Dubai Internet City 60594 Frankfurt am Main 16, El Khartoum Street Dubai Islamic Bank Building Germany Heliopolis, Cairo Office 201, 202 Tel: +49 696 65 37 0 Egypt P.O. Box 500060 Fax: +49 696 65 37 3100 Tel: +2 02 2414 3886 Dubai United Arab Emirates Grosswallstadt Israel Tel: +971 4 391 3100 Temenos Deutschland GmbH Tel Aviv Fax: +971 4 391 3117 Einsteinstraße 2 Temenos Israel Ltd 63868 Großwallstadt Rothschild Boulevard 22 Dubai Germany 11th Floor Temenos Middle East Ltd Tel: +49 69 66537 0 Tel Aviv 6688218 (UAE Branch) Fax: +49 69 66537 4200 Israel Dubai Internet City T: +972 732 844 513 or 566 Aptec Building, EIB-03 Greece Office # G-01, P.O. Box 500060 Athens Kenya Dubai Temenos Hellas S.A. Nairobi United Arab Emirates 2, Amfitheas Avenue & Syngrou Avenue Temenos East Africa Ltd Tel: +971 4 391 3100 N. Smirni 17122 Nairobi Delta Corner Fax: +971 4 391 3117 Athens Delta Corner Tower Greece Chiromo Road Tel: +30 211 1094 600 / +30 211 1094 601 7th floor, Rooms: 702,703,704 EUROPE Fax: +30 210 6855 702 Westlands, 00800 Nairobi Belgium Ireland Kenya La Hulpe Dublin T: +254 730 11 2176 Temenos Belgium S.A. Igefi Ireland Ltd Parc du Nysdam No. 2 Custom House Plaza, Level 1 Lebanon Avenue Reine Astrid 92 Harbourmaster Place Beirut 1310 La Hulpe Dublin 1 Temenos Middle East Ltd Belgium Ireland (Lebanon Branch) Tel: +32 2 725 25 99 Tel: +353 1 5187400 Monte Libano Center, 11th Floor Jdeidet El Metn Denmark Luxembourg Beirut Copenhagen Luxembourg Lebanon Temenos Denmark ApS Temenos Luxembourg S.A. Tel: +961 3 876 287 Vibenshus Lyngbyvej 2 Temenos Software Luxembourg S.A. Fax: +961 1 878 653 Bygning 5, 2.sal 21 rue du Puits Romain 2100 København Ø L-8070 Bertrange Saudi Arabia Denmark Luxembourg Riyadh Tel: +45 89 88 13 21 Tel: +352 42 60 801 Temenos Middle East Ltd Fax: +352 42 91 92 (Saudi Arabia Branch) France Office No. 203 Nantes Luxembourg Cerecon Building no. 12 Viveo France S.A.S. Igefi Group S.à r.l. Olaya Street, P.O. Box 250821 CA Euronantes Gare 7, Rue des Primeurs Riyadh 11391 Immeuble Skyline L-2361 Strassen Kingdom of Saudi Arabia 22, Mail Pablo Picasso Luxembourg Tel: +966 11 215 0511 or +966 566 49 7339 44000 Nantes Tel: +352 26 44 211 Fax: +966 11 416 2898 France Fax: +352 26 44 21 44 Tel: +33 2 40 95 36 74 South Africa Netherlands Johannesburg Paris Amsterdam Temenos Africa (Pty) Ltd Temenos France S.A.S. Temenos Holland B.V. 1st Floor, Building A, Suite 3 Viveo France S.A.S. ‘World Trade Center’, Tower B, Level 10 Monte Circle Office Park 17/19, rue Guillaume Tell Strawinskylaan 1035 64 Montecasino Boulevard 75017 Paris 1077 XX Amsterdam Fourways, Gauteng 2191 France The Netherlands Johannesburg Tel: +33 1 44 09 55 00 Tel: +31 20 890 8757 Republic of South Africa Fax: +33 1 44 09 55 99 Fax: +31 20 3445 029 Tel: +27 11 513 3141 Fax: +27 11 510 0001 190 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Poland United Kingdom Bangladesh Krakow Berkshire Dhaka Temenos Polska sp.z.o.o. Temenos UK Ltd Temenos Singapore Pte Ltd Al. Bora-Komorowskiego 25C 3 Waterside Drive Suite # 7D, 7th floor 31-476 Krakow Arlington Business Park Saiham Sky View Tower Poland Theale Reading, RG7 4SW 45, Bijoynagar, Dhaka 1000 Tel: +48 12 3966 223 United Kingdom Bangladesh Tel: +44 1184 021336 Tel: +880 283 914 86 Romania Tel: +44 207 4233700 Bucharest China Temenos Romania S.R.L. Hemel Hempstead Shanghai 319 Splaiul Independentei, Atrium House Temenos UK Ltd Temenos Software Shanghai Co. Ltd Ground Floor, 2nd Floor and 3rd Floor 2 Peoplebuilding Yue Xiu Tower, 10th floor, Room 1008 6th District, Bucharest, 060044 Maylands Avenue No. 388, Fushan Road Romania Hemel Hempstead Pudong new District Tel: +40 31 710 22 64 Herts, HP2 4NW Shanghai, 200122 Fax: +40 31 710 88 82 United Kingdom China Tel: +44 2074 233700 Tel: +86 21 6087 1380 Russia Fax: +86 21 6087 1378 Moscow London Temenos Middle East Ltd Temenos UK Ltd Hong Kong (Russia Branch) 71 Fenchurch Street, 5th floor Temenos Hong Kong Ltd 9 Zemlyanoy Val Street, 4th floor London, EC3M 4TD Unit No. 5504, 55th Floor, Central Plaza Office 4010 United Kingdom 18 Harbour Road Moscow 105064 Tel: +44 20 7423 3700 Wanchai, Hong Kong Russian Federation Fax: +44 20 7423 3800 China Tel: +7 495 411 50 50 Tel: +852 2866 2562 Fax: +7 495 411 50 51 London Fax: +852 2528 0345 Avoka Europe Ltd Spain 6 Bevis Marks India Madrid London, EC3A 7BA Bangalore Temenos Hispania S.L. United Kingdom Temenos India Private Ltd Paseo de la Castellana 79 Tel: +44 20 3514 8556 (Bangalore Branch) 28046 Madrid IBC Knowledge Park Spain Block C & D, 3rd & 11th Floor Tel: +34 91 343 20 99 ASIA PACIFIC 4/1, Bannergatta Road Fax: +34 91 344 70 51 Near Dairy circle Australia Bangalore – 560 029 Switzerland Canberra India Geneva Avoka Technologies Pty Ltd Tel: +91 80 4137 6000 Temenos Headquarters S.A. Suite 3.01, Level 3, 64 Northbourne Avenue Fax: +91 80 4112 1221 2 rue de l’Ecole-de-Chimie Canberra ACT 2600 1205 Geneva Australia Chennai Switzerland Tel: +61 2 9976 4500 Temenos India Private Ltd Tel: +41 22 708 11 50 146, Sterling Road Fax: +41 22 708 11 60 Melbourne Nungambakkam Temenos Australia Financial Pty Ltd Chennai 600 034 Lausanne Suite 1.01, Level 1, 850 Collins Street India Temenos Software Luxembourg S.A. Docklands, Victoria 3008 Tel: + 91 44 7133 1000 (Renens Branch) Australia Avenue des Baumettes 23 Tel: +61 2 9488 4000 Chennai 1020 Renens Temenos India Private Ltd Switzerland Sydney (Perungudi Branch) Tel: +41 21 310 00 00 Temenos Australia Financial Pty Ltd KG 360° – IT Business Park; 2nd Floor Fax: +41 21 310 00 99 Level 10, 85 Castlereagh Street N° 232/1 Sydney, NSW 2000 Dr. MGR Salai Zürich Australia Perungudi Temenos Headquarters S.A. Tel: +61 2 9488 4000 Chennai – 600 096 Tödistrasse 36 India 8002 Zürich Sydney Tel: +91 44 7133 3000 Switzerland Avoka Technologies Pty Ltd Fax: +91 44 7133 3001 Tel: +41 22 708 11 50 Level 2, 1a Rialto Lane Fax: +41 22 708 11 60 Manly, NSW 2095 Mumbai Australia Temenos India Private Ltd Tel: +61 2 9976 4500 (Mumbai Branch) 123, Hubtown Solaris, N S Phadke Marg, Andheri East Mumbai 400069 India Tel: +91 22 2682 0542 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 191 Appendix Temenos World Offices continued Indonesia Taiwan Jakarta Taipei Temenos Singapore Pte Ltd Temenos Singapore Pte Ltd (Indonesia Representative Office) (Taiwan Branch) Indonesia Stock Exchange Tower 1 Taipei Manhattan Center 15th Floor, Suite 1507 Shin Kong Manhattan Building Jl.Jend Sudirman kav 52-53 Suite 1413, 14F, No.8 Xinyi Rd. Sec. 5 Jakarta 12190 Xinyi District 11049 Indonesia Taipei Tel: +62 21 5140 0382 Taiwan Fax: +62 21 5140 0383 Tel: +886 2 8758 2338 Fax: +886 2 8758 2333 Japan Tokyo Thailand Temenos Japan K.K. Bangkok 21F Marunouchi Nijyubashi Building Temenos (Thailand) Co. Ltd 3-2-3 Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku Bubhajit Building, 11th Floor Tokyo 100-0005 20 North Sathorn Road, Silom Japan Bangrak, Bangkok 10500 Tel: +81 3 5219 0655 Thailand Fax: +81 3 5219 0659 Tel: +662 236 9391 Fax: +662 236 9394 Malaysia Kuala Lumpur Vietnam Temenos (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd Hanoi Level 33, ILHAM Tower, No.8 Temenos Vietnam Co. Ltd Jalan Binjai 50450 Kuala Lumpur 11th Floor, 14 Lang Ha Street Malaysia Ba Dinh Dist., Hanoi Tel: +603 2117 5335 Vietnam Fax: +603 2117 5334 Tel: +844 3772 4328/4327/4326 Fax: +844 3772 4329 Philippines Manila Temenos Philippines Inc. Tower 2, Room 2715, The Enterprise Centre 6766 Ayala Avenue corner Paseo de Roxas Makati City, 1226 Philippines Tel: +63 2 885 8441 Singapore Singapore Temenos Singapore Pte Ltd 5 Shenton Way #18-01 UIC Building Singapore 068808 Singapore Tel: +65 6511 6388 Fax: +65 6538 0818 192 Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Sources 1 Gartner, ‘Magic Quadrant for Global Retail Core Banking’, Gartner, Vittorio D’Orazio, Don Free, June 2018. Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in its research publications, and does not advise technology users to select only those vendors with the highest ratings or other designation. Gartner research publications consist of the opinions of Gartner’s research organization and should not be construed as statements of fact. Gartner disclaims all warranties, expressed or implied, with respect to this research, including any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. 2 Forrester, ‘The Forrester Wave’™: Digital Banking Engagement Platforms, Q3 2018’, Forrester, Jost Hoppermann, August 2018, and ‘Forrester’s Global Banking Platform Deals Survey 2019’, Forrester, Jost Hoppermann, March 2019. 3 ‘Ovum Decision Matrix: Selecting a Digital Banking Platform, 2019, Ovum, Matthew Heaslip, January 2019 and ‘Ovum Decision Matrix: Selecting a Core Banking System in the European Market, 2016-17’, Ovum, Noora Haapajärvi, March 2016. ‘Ovum Decision Matrix: Selecting an Anti-Financial Crime Solution 2017-18’, Ovum, Matthew Heaslip, December 2017. 4 ‘Annual Sales League Table 2018’. IBS Intelligence, April 2018. 5 ‘Ranking the CRM Technology Vendors Wealth Management: An Overview of the European Market’, Celent, Ashley Longabaugh, April 2018. 6 ‘IDC MarketScape: Worldwide Know-Your-Customer Solutions in Financial Services 2018 Vendor Assessment’, IDC, Stephen D’Alfonso, Karen Massey, September 2018 and ‘IDC MarketScape: Worldwide Anti–Money Laundering Solutions in Financial Services 2018 Vendor Assessment’, IDC, Karen Massey, Stephen D’Alfonso, September 2018. ‘IDC MarketScape: Worldwide Core Banking Solutions 2015 Vendor Assessment’, IDC, Karen Massey, Andrei Charniauski, Michael Araneta, Jerry Silva, January 2015, ‘Worldwide Wealth Management Front-and Middle-Office Solutions 2014 Vendor Assessment, IDC, Thomas Zink, January 2015 and ‘IDC MarketScape: European Mobile Banking Software Solutions 2017 Vendor Assessment’, IDC, Lawrence Freeborn, May 2017. 7 FSTech Awards 2018, March 2018. Design and Production Printed by Park Communications on FSC® certified paper. Park is an EMAS certified company www.carrkamasa.co.uk and its Environmental Management System is certified to ISO 14001. 100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled. This document is printed on Amadeus Primo Silk, a paper containing virgin fibre sourced from well-managed, responsible, FSC®certified forests. Temenos AG Annual Report 2018 193 Temenos Headquarters SA 2 Rue de L’Ecole-de-Chimie CH-1205 Geneva Switzerland Tel: +41 22 708 1150 Fax: +41 22 708 1160 www.temenos.com ©2019 TEMENOS HEADQUARTERS SA – all rights reserved. Warning: This document is protected by copyright law and international treaties. Unauthorized reproduction of this document, or any portion of it, may result in civil and criminal penalties, and will be prosecuted to the maximum extent possible under law. TEMENOS and TEMENOS T24 are registered trademarks and are trademarks of the TEMENOS Group. For further details on the registered TEMENOS Group trademarks – please refer to the website www.temenos.com.
