Table of Contents 2 Message from the CEO 29 For Society 3 Who we are 39 For the Environment 5 How we work 43 What we achieved in 2018 15 Data Protection 44 Acknowledgements 17 Employee Engagement 19 Innovation Initiative 20 Photo Contest 21 We Care 23 For You 1 Message from the CEO “ From “good intentions” to real progress Corporate responsibility and sustainability often have different meanings in different organizations. For us in Printec it means to always strive for the best while having our customers, our people, the environment, Responsibility towards the environment, local communities, and -our greatest assetour people has always been intrinsic to our philosophy, but it was not until quite recently that all these In the following pages you will and our communities in mind. It is about efforts have been formalized under read about our commitment making sure that our work will have a one program that we call “We Care”. and the actions we took positive impact, not just to us and our company, but also to all the things that A few years ago we also decided to become a member of the UN Global during 2018 towards these goals. Marina Mavrommati define us as professionals and as Compact in order to further We are proud of the progress individuals. In this context, Corporate Social strengthen our commitment to Chief Executive Officer we have achieved, yet we know Responsibility (CSR) is not just an one-off positive impact, to measure our there is still much work to be initiative or a checkbox that we need to fill, progress, and to benchmark ourselves done. We should, therefore, A warm thank you to all Printec but an integral part of our continuous against the globally recognized remain focused to continuously people who participated in our improvement efforts that is embedded in standards of the United Nations’ move from good intentions to “We Care” initiatives: Printec is a our business processes and ways of working. Sustainable Development Goals. real impact and progress. better company because of you. 2 Who we are History Printec is a leader in business-to-customer Vision transaction technologies in 16 countries in Central To be the technology and Eastern Europe, offering a wide range of brand of choice for easy technology solutions that help improve human interactions, making everyday life easier. and secure interactions, anytime, anywhere. Through our wide range of technology solutions and services we enable businesses to leverage Mission innovative technology in order to provide superior 16 We exist to provide innovative customer experience and at the same time achieve operational efficiencies and regulatory compliance.​ countries technology based solutions & services, which enable Our solutions are behind everyday transactions: from cash transactions via ATMs, to card efficiency, effectiveness and 30 500+ convenience. transactions, self-service solutions and more, enabling hundreds of organizations in Europe years of business customers meet and exceed their customers' expectations, Values while at the same time optimize their operations, Diversity creating cost efficiencies. 900+ 630.000 Drive for Results With our presence of 30 years and with more than employees POSs Entrepreneurship 900 highly qualified and trained professionals, Customer Focus Printec Group is one of the fastest growing information technology groups in Central and Trust 23.000 2.300.000 Eastern Europe. 3 ATMs daily transactions Focusing on the Future Through a growing network of subsidiaries, Printec has a strong presence in CEE, while maintaining the flexibility of New and exciting an entrepreneurial company. The company continues to opportunities lie ahead for focus on its growth, both organic and inorganic, and constantly scouts the business horizon for potential Printec. opportunities. With more than 900 highly qualified professionals, 100 Service Centers and fully-fledged subsidiaries in 16 countries, Printec is constantly geared towards the highest possible service level for its customers. Thanks to its innovative, state-of-the-art solutions Printec has become one of the fastest growing ICT organizations in the whole region. Greater innovation, diversified solutions portfolio, and accelerated growth and expansion into new markets will lead the way and all the necessary ingredients are in place; proven products, financial backing and most importantly, dedicated staff with talent and commitment. 1988 2008 2012 2017 Establishment 1st m-payment Printec 1st contactless 1st contactless of Printec project in operates in payments cash withdrawals Greece Romania 15 countries project in over ATMs in Greece Croatia 1999 2011 2013 1st bank loyalty 2018 Acquisition of NCR’s business 1st Self-Scan 1st self-service info-kiosk scheme in Celebrating entities & operations in Slovenia, project in Bulgaria Acquisition used for tax payment, duties Greece and 3 decades of Slovakia, Croatia, Romania of CardPay and fines with credit card Bulgaria innovation 4 Respecting the UN Principles Our Goals Printec has been a member of the United At Printec, taking into consideration Each year we become Nations Global Compact for 5 years. Each the sector in which we operate, we better. year we want to move closer to achieving incorporate the goals that apply to the United Nation’s Sustainable us in the way we work. In the 2018 Report, we GOAL 13: CLIMATE Development Goals (SDGs). highlight our people, our ACTION Climate change is a All of our actions that fall under countries, our activities global challenge that The SDGs set the framework to achieve a the “We Care” Program, aim at and our overall increased affects everyone, better and more sustainable future for all. achieving one or a combination of impact. GOAL 9: INDUSTRY, everywhere. They address the global challenges we SDGs. INNOVATION AND face, and they interconnect in order to INFRASTRUCTURE GOAL 14: LIFE BELOW leave no one behind. Investments in WATER infrastructure are crucial to Careful management of GOAL 5: GENDER EQUALITY achieving sustainable this essential global Gender equality is not only development. resource is a key feature a fundamental human right, of a sustainable future. but a necessary foundation GOAL 10: REDUCED for a peaceful, prosperous INEQUALITIES GOAL 15: LIFE ON LAND and sustainable world. To reduce inequalities, Sustainably manage policies should be universal forests, combat GOAL 6: CLEAN WATER in principle, paying desertification, halt and AND SANITATION attention to the needs of reverse land Clean, accessible water for disadvantaged and degradation, halt GOAL 3: GOOD HEALTH all is an essential part of the marginalized populations. biodiversity loss AND WELL-BEING world we want to live in. Ensuring healthy lives GOAL 11: SUSTAINABLE GOAL 16: PEACE, GOAL 1: NO POVERTY and promoting the wellGOAL 7: AFFORDABLE AND CITIES AND COMMUNITIES JUSTICE AND STRONG Economic growth must being for all at all ages is CLEAN ENERGY There needs to be a future INSTITUTIONS be inclusive to provide essential to sustainable Energy is central to nearly in which cities provide Access to justice for all, sustainable jobs and development. every major challenge and opportunities for all, with and building effective, promote equality. opportunity. access to basic services, accountable institutions GOAL 4: QUALITY energy, housing, at all levels. GOAL 8: DECENT WORK transportation and more. The GOAL 2: ZERO HUNGER The food and agriculture EDUCATION Obtaining a quality AND ECONOMIC GROWTH GOAL 17: PARTNERSHIPS Sustainable sector offers key solutions for education is the foundation to improving Sustainable economic growth will require societies GOAL 12: RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTION AND FOR THE GOALS Revitalize the global Development development, and is people’s lives and to create the conditions that allow people to have quality CONSUMPTION Responsible Production and partnership for sustainable central for hunger and sustainable Goals poverty eradication. development. jobs. Consumption development. 5 6 How we work Businesses should 1: support and respect the Printec is protection of internationally proclaimed committed to human rights; 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights protecting human abuses rights and basic freedoms 3: uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the for all its employees. right to collective bargaining; 4: uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Printec encourages all employees and business partners to respect human rights and prevent potential abuses. This commitment is clearly stated in the 5: uphold the effective abolition of child labor; and written policies found in our code of conduct, “One Group, One Code”, 6: uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. which has been published on the company website and intranet and is translated in all local languages of our jurisdiction. 7: support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental According to Printec’s Code of Conduct, each employee should conduct responsibility; and company business with integrity and in compliance with applicable laws. The Company will not tolerate victimization, bullying or harassment in the 9: encourage the development and diffusion of workplace. Any such behavior is facing disciplinary repercussions and even environmentally friendly technologies. termination of employment. All Printec employees are required to read and 10: work against corruption in confirm that they have understood and commit to abide by the Code. all its forms, including The 10 Principles of the United extortion and bribery. In Printec we follow the rules and regulations of the jurisdiction in which we operate and in our company’s policies, we ensure that our employees and Nations Global Compact illustrate stakeholders are treated fairly and equally. our undertaking to operate in a Printec’s commitment to the UN Global Compact has also been published responsible manner in the areas on the company’s corporate website reflecting our ethical business of human rights, labor, performance and positive engagement with stakeholders e.g. employees, environment and anti-corruption. partners, customers and communities. 7 At Printec, it doesn’t matter Our culture, our open and collaborative work environment and our people give us The Employee Life-Cycle who you are, what you look the opportunity to tackle big challenges like or where you come and continuously develop. We bring our passion, experience and true self to work from. to make sure that together we achieve amazing things. Employee Workforce We ensure that recruitment & selection, Relations Planning performance & development, career progress and leadership promotions are based on legitimate non-discriminatory Occupational Life @ Printec business reasons. Compliance, Talent Attraction & We’re passionate about what we do We provide a safe, healthy & comfortable Selection Health & Safety ENGAGEMENT and we recognize that inspiration working environment to all employees. comes from both in and outside the office. We are committed to creating a better workplace and our culture allows employees to find balance and Total Rewards Onboarding focus on what matters: achieving professional success while making personal aspirations a reality. Performance Development Our people tend to Everyone is part of a team that reimagines transactions and creates stay here, and it’s not technology that makes everyday life hard to see why! easier. 8 How we work Diversity Talent Attraction & Selection Onboarding Printec’s commitment to Global Compact’s principles on Labor Our roadmap on “Recruitment & Selection” provides Printec implements for the fourth year an Onboarding is reflected in its Code of Conduct, in policies such as the Hiring all the necessary tools and relevant processes for an Program that allows new employees to assimilate within Policy, as well as in processes such as the Performance and objective candidate assessment, followed by all HR their working environment, and informs them of all Development Process which describe how employees are department personnel and Managers involved in the Printec Policies & Procedures, including, but not limited selected and regularly evaluated. hiring process. to, the Code of Conduct, Compensation & Benefits, Printec will never advertise a job referencing Company’s Vision, Mission & Values, Performance & The company supports and is committed to the practice of discriminatory criteria such as race, gender or age. Development Process, Risk Management Process etc. equal opportunity in all aspects of employment and Likewise, the company ensures job applicants are not Through this process, which is continuously enhanced advancement. asked to give information about their marital status, when a new or an update of existing policy is released, pregnancy, intent to have children or similar Printec’s new employees are immediately informed With Diversity as one of its Values, Printec prides itself on having information which may lead to discriminatory hiring about all relevant information on equal opportunities, an authentically diverse culture: our workforce spans countries, decisions. employee rights & responsibilities. cultures, languages, generations, perspectives, backgrounds and educational experiences. Printec understands that employees with disabilities share the same general employment rights as other workers. Printec has a good mix of female and male although our industry is an area which is by nature male dominated. This however, in no way reflects our approach to encouraging and promoting staff within the organization. 39% of our Managers are female 4% increase from 2017 9 Technical Skills Total 160 905 Soft Skills Training 567 Conference Hours Other 2018 8274 Performance & Development Through our Performance and Development Program (PPD), we drive alignment with our core business objectives, monitor progress bi-annually to identify strengths and individual development needs and training requirements. As part of this process, Printec employees receive written and verbal feedback on their goals & individual performance on both goals & competencies of their role. Discrimination in the development and advancement of employees has been mitigated through Printec's Career Framework. We have a description for each role based on its unique contribution and industry standards. The ultimate goal being to eliminate any issues of discrimination in compensation, performance and development. 9.906 Within 2018 we performed internal “refresher” sessions to existing employees for the Performance & Development System online platform, initially launched in 2015, and hours of training were special trainings for the new members of Printec team in order to educate them on completed in 2018 the principles and optimum use of the performance management system. We further strengthened fairness and transparency by organizing “Calibration meetings” across all countries, where managers had the opportunity to discuss their 11% teams performance results and create an action plan for their teams development. 2018 Performance & Reward results are accessible to everyone at Printec at our increase from 2017 “Building a High-Performance Page” on SharePoint. 10 How we work Reward We take care of our people in more ways than one. We love rewarding our people. We all work very hard on opportunities that define our careers. We commit on fairness, respect and superior rewards for superior performance. We responsibly look at performance, potential and commitment to reward our people in various manners. All Printec employees receive at least the minimum wage. All employees are paid holiday leave, sick leave and parental leave in We ensure equal pay for equal work accordance with international minimum standards. and equal opportunities for training When we treat people fairly, equitably and consistently in and development for all employees, accordance with their value to the organization. We are able to attract, enable and engage high performing teams. without distinction based on race, We encourage flexibility color, sex, language, religion, political We have established a Total Reward Policy & Reward Review Toolkit, Quality time outside the office is vital. Our FlexWork outlining core principles and the framework to make evidence-based program, allows for flexibility both in terms of where or other opinion, national or social reward decisions for every Printec employee. and when we get work done. Our work tools and, most importantly, our habits change to welcome a origin, property, birth or other status Due to the nature of Printec’s services, we are often required to culture of mobility, agility and accountability, where such as ethnic origin, disability, age, serve our customers after hours, thus, to ensure fairness and workpeople choose how they complete specific tasks life balance, the Stand-by & Call-out policy regulates the terms and that can be performed virtually. Giving back to health status, parental or marital conditions under which extra payment is granted for extra effort, people control over their work time and place, status or sexual orientation. especially in the Customer Services function. reduce unnecessary commute time and improve the quality of their work life. 11 We are truly proud of our achievements and Values celebrating them is part of our culture. We live our Diversity values, push ourselves and do our best work, therefore, Results (Drive for Results) there is plenty to celebrate. Entrepreneurship Customer Focus We embraces feedback and recognize exceptional Trust contribution of : ▪ Teams that delivered a key project or exceptional work that helped us achieve a strategic objective; or ▪ People who displayed Leading Performance at one of our Competencies, linked with Printec's core values Country Management Teams award individuals and teams considering strategic impact, professional excellence and commitment to Printec DiRECT values. Congratulating Printec People 3 1 5 5 Great Team Awards Drive for Results 8 87 Teamwork & Collaboration 40 Customer Focus employees got a Taking Initiative Printec People Award 9 Business Thinking for Leading Performance CEO's Awards on Competencies & their contribution on Team Leadership strategic projects 19 12 How we work Health & Safety Freedom of Association & Child Labor With regards to the Health and Safety of employees, All employees are covered by the state medical We believe in the freedom of association and the Printec is in full compliance with the relevant laws and insurance and supplementary private medical effective recognition of the right to collective regulations in the countries of its operations. insurance is provided as a benefit for employees in bargaining and adhere to sectional collective the majority of Printec. We plan to extend this benefit agreements in all countries, and, where applicable, The company makes sure that the necessary to all countries. allow the formation of Labor Unions. procedures and precautions are in place with regards to Printec facilities, providing a safe and sanitary working To improve the quality of life of employees and their All employees are made aware that any forms of environment. families, they are granted flexible time & place work forced or compulsory labor are not supported. arrangements, encouraged to take all their annual Additionally, the company has achieved and continues paid time off, exercise and live a healthy lifestyle. We do not condone any forms of child labor or to maintain the OHSAS 18001:2007 & OHSAS human trafficking. 18001:2008 certification which relates to occupational health and safety in Bulgaria and Romania respectively. All parameters of health and safety in the workplace are covered by local legislation such as: ▪ Controls by a dedicated safety engineer are held on a regular basis ▪ Scheduled visits by an occupational doctor ▪ A detailed evacuation plan, upheld by frequent fire and earthquake drills Printec has not been involved in any investigations, legal cases or other relevant events related to contravention of the Global Compact Labor principles. 13 Corruption It is Printec’s policy to conduct all of our business in an Printec had not honest and ethical manner. We take a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption and are committed to been involved in any acting professionally, fairly and with integrity in all our dealings wherever we operate. The Company has in place legal cases, rulings policies and procedures designed to prevent corruption as it or other events is clearly stated in its Code of Conduct. related to corruption Regular internal and external auditing of financial accounts or bribery. ensures Printec’s expectations & policies in relation to Monitoring Compliance corporate governance are maintained. We span in more than 15 countries but we maintain an open and All staff are aware that they can communicate with the supporting working environment. Group Ethics Committee should they become concerned for Printec enables employees to the welfare or operations of the business or if they detect a freely communicate in cases where violation of the company’s corporate governance policy. Regular controls they feel their rights are being Should any issues arise, Printec would seek legal advice and The Chief Compliance Officer, on an compromised or breached. deal with them immediately. annual basis, performs on-site audits in Printec Financial Statements are audited locally by external each of the company’s locations of Grievance Mechanism: Through auditors each year and submitted for consolidation at Group business operations and investigates if the implementation of Printec’s Level to a separate independent external auditor in Austria. the company policies and procedures are Code of Conduct and the relevant being meticulously followed, providing policies, the company does not feedback and ensuring realignment in allow any human rights violations. case of discrepancies (policies are being However if violations were to reviewed for suitability and effectiveness occur, then appropriate action on a regular or also ad-hoc basis should a would be taken. Employees are significant change occur). encouraged to speak with the senior members of the team All employees have been made aware of and/or communicate directly with Printec’s policies in this area and are the Group Ethics Committee (via required to read and familiarize telephone, email or mail) if they During 2018, one themselves with the Code of Conduct. feel treated unfairly. incident was raised, All policy documents are available to The Ethics Committee: Printec’s access at any time via the company’s Ethics Committee is responsible which was treated and intranet, and employees are encouraged for the review of issues regarding solved with utmost to submit questions, feedback and any human rights, or other ethical issues that have or may arise in concerns to the individuals with discretion for all sides. responsibility in this area. conjunction with Printec activities. 14 Data Protection Our Commitment​ Our Continuous Improvement Protecting the security and privacy of personal data is GDPR@Printec important to Printec. Printec complies with mandatory 2018 was a transitional year for all due to the GDPR. privacy laws worldwide, and is implementing a GroupAs we were getting ready to comply with the new wide Program to safeguard personal data which: regulation, we were also planning for the future. We saw GDPR as an opportunity to improve the way ▪ is following on a risk based approach with a we work, that is why we have adopted a “continuous improvement” framework where we are constantly reuniform methodology in all Printec entities assessing our practices, train our people and maintain ▪ examines every aspect of our operations our existing infrastructure. Our Program ▪ ensures everyone’s involvement and commitment Policies and Standards We have updated our existing privacy and data protection policies and internal standards and governance with particular regard to personal data lifecycle, individual rights, data breaches, data access, and security. The main Increase principles of our policy are reflected in our privacy Audit & assess awareness statement and our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. Data Risk Management Data risk management requires understanding the threats, vulnerabilities and risks associated with processing (e.g., collecting, exchanging, storing, deleting) the specific types Training & Awareness of personal data we handle. By conducting Data Privacy Review data Printec conducts a Data Protection inventory & Impact Assessments (DPIA) for our own internal business Awareness program through a variety of processes, measuring the effectiveness of policies, corporate multimedia (on-line, print, video, live documents processes and controls, we constantly try to manage risks sessions) and languages, which aims at to an acceptable level and identify the current strengths and opportunities in the data protection practices of providing general training to all personnel Data Inventory and specific training to personnel who Knowing what data we hold is key in Printec. have permanent or regular access to managing them appropriately and personal data. Specific modules taking consistently. Based on a crossIncident response into account local specificities are also functional, company-wide effort, we We have implemented a thorough, organization-wide data being developed. The attendance to the inventory and map the data that each incident response process that is integrated in our business Data Protection Training is mandatory unit within Printec processes. We also continuity processes. Our cross-functional incident and in order to facilitate the participation inventory our products and services. response team consists of personnel from multiple of Printec employees we maintain an This allows us to identify and departments. Our team provides guidance and takes active intranet for collaboration and understand how we handle data, responsibility for remedial actions based on members’ communications at all levels within the including what we have, how are we business function and role. Any data breaches will be company. Beyond basic awareness protecting them, what we are doing handled by a subgroup of the incident response team since training, Printec encourages & supports with them, where they are, where they due to possible legal/regulatory implications, a different employees to pursue further training flow, who has access to them, and management process may be required. opportunities. why. 15 “ Although GDPR was not On a company level, locally, we As per my personal point of view, adopted early by the have put serious efforts in one of our biggest issues in Bulgarian legislation, 2018 analyzing our processes, filtering Bulgaria in respect to GDPR is was a busy and interesting and structuring those concerning persuading people on the positive year in this aspect. GDPR personal data. We have started to aspects of the implementation of was a leading topic of build a corporate GDPR culture the regulation. Turning GDPR from discussions on country level through spreading knowledge an obstacle to an opportunity is a and within Printec Bulgaria among the employees. It is an major challenge for year 2019. as well. ongoing “step by step” process. -Miryana Vasileva BULGARIA “ In my opinion GDPR is for the people, by the people. Having this in mind and the fact that there can be benefits for all parties in the GDPR compliance process, these are some of the things that maintain my enthusiasm and commitment on the path towards GDPR compliance. -Diana Cazacu ROMANIA 16 Employee Engagement In 2017, we carried out our first “Employee Engagement Survey” across our entire workforce worldwide. The survey was conducted online using a respected third-party provider and is was completely anonymous and confidential. Measuring Employee Engagement is vital to understand how to best support people, improve the workplace and create an environment that enables management and Building a more employees to remove any barriers to success. This is why at Printec we commit on following up action plans in order to generate more positive, employee engagement and development opportunities. The group productive leadership team having examined the findings in great detail, workplace takes identified areas and took action in 2018 to address shortcomings all of us! highlighted by our people. Planning Ahead In 2019, a second “Be Heard” cycle will begin. 17 93 Actions overall 10 46% of the total actions are related to: ▪ I have the materials and equipment I need to do my work. Where do we go from here? ▪ This last year I have had Completed Building a more effective team opportunities at work to learn and In Progress begins with small daily actions. grow. 30 Actions that derive from our ▪ There is cooperation between my 53 Postponed understanding of the results and department and other departments what is their underlying meaning. with whom I work. Actions that are based on clear objectives that meet our people's needs. 18 Innovation Initiative We strongly believe that the best source of innovation is our own people who interact with our customers and understand their changing needs and requirements. This Innovation initiative encourages teams or individuals to communicate their ideas by submitting improvement proposals that will impact the way we work (operational efficiency), our revenue, profitability, customer and employee experience. We are in the midst of a technological evolution, affecting both 95 submitted ideas our customers and our own industry. To succeed, we need to adapt and find ways to innovate and be one step ahead of 3 ideas are awarded for having these rapid changes. contributed to the implementation Our focus on innovation started last year through the formation of new things in Printec. of an Innovation Committee that had as a task to re-think our offering and the way we work in a strategic level. This year, we 10 ideas are awarded for their drive aim to take this one step further by investing and recognizing new ideas coming from the core of our business: our people. and innovative way of thinking With this new initiative we wish to inspire everyone to share 6 ideas their proposals about our product and service offering (what we offer) and our internal processes (how we work) have been found innovative, beneficial and realistic and The most important aspect of this project is that the best are progressing to the next proposals will be implemented by the Group or by the countries, making ideas happen. round. 19 Photo Contest The winning photo 2018 was a year of celebration for our 30-year anniversary. To keep the memories alive, we 16 asked our people to share their photos depicting their definition of Countries Life @ Printec in one image. 120 Throughout the year we had local photo contests, while the winners Photos participated in a final round. 250 We finally have the winner through a voting process where Printec Votes people selected their favorite. 20 We Care In Printec, WE CARE Our Corporate Social Responsibility actions have been formulated under the “We Care” program. The program has been divided to 3 basic pillars: ▪ For You (Our People): Activities relating to Printec employees ▪ For Society: Actions towards the societies and communities within which we operate Our “We Care” program has been ▪ For the Environment: Actions towards improving established under a clear framework. sustainability and environmental consciousness. The “We Care” and the Environmental & Recycling policies set the guidelines To that end, Printec is aiming at long-term regarding what activities we participate maximization of its financial value, through sound in and how we engage with the corporate governance and ethical conduct, ensuring community. The CSR Committee that its employees act with integrity, transparency, ethos ensures that the policies are being and environmental consciousness in their relationship followed and sets a CSR strategy for the with the Company’s stakeholders and society in general. whole company. Printec’s targets are to generate continuous growth and Our CSR vision and strategy is formulated economic value through long term performance around 3 basic pillars and is translated into improvement, provide innovative & optimal solutions responding to customer’s requirements and sustain integrated solutions that deliver greater longstanding relationships with key vendors/partners convenience and add value to people’s lives. and behave with transparency towards them. 21 “ From the very beginning of the Every activity that we organize is “We Care” Program, even received with a very positive reaction. We before we had launched it, we are always excited to do new things and knew that people wanted to we are having a lot of fun in the process. participate in CSR activities. However, we could never We are so proud that we can do so imagine the extent of their many important things together, and participation. The program was offer back to society. immediately embraced by our people and sponsored by -Irini Ioannidou Management. Member of the CSR Committee GROUP The “We Care” program of the Volunteering and participating in athletic company has been very helpful activities has become an integral part of in increasing engagement and how we work and our people have collaboration among our started taking initiatives and proposing people. Every activity that we additional activities that we can all take take a part in, is an opportunity part in. to give back to society and to I am proud of our team and our build stronger relationships in dedication to build stronger relationships our team. and support the community. -Sylvos Vasiliadis Member of the CSR Committee GREECE 22 We Care | For You “For You” is our WorkLife @Printec programs are about: ▪ Improving our workplace group-wide Transform offices into comfortable & creative places, program that where people can meet and collaborate on projects introduces and ▪ Encouraging flexibility on how we deliver our work encourages our Flexible Time & Place Arrangements, when appropriate colleagues to ▪ Emphasizing teamwork & collaboration participate in Organize “know-us-better” sessions, where teams creating a better could share what they do, their achievements or challenges work life. ▪ Introducing meaningful perks such us: Discounts on Products & Services, Meal & Transportation subsidies, tickets for museums and theaters 23 We participated in 33 “Grow” “Fitness & Health” and “WorkLife” activities in 2018 Fitness & Health @Printec EnJoy @Printec is about Grow @Printec focuses on our physical and having fun! Let’s celebrate encourages accountability on mental health, stress release our achievements, embrace personal and professional and nutrition; company challenges and support our growth by providing a robust programs in various countries, colleagues. In many Printec Individual Development Plan & among others, include: countries our colleagues, realizing it with the among others: organization's support. ▪ Employee Assistance Program with 24/7 ▪ Participate in Team ▪ Team and individual availability building activities learning and development ▪ On-site pilates classes ▪ Create on-site play/relax opportunities occur for ▪ Marathons rooms technical and non▪ Blood banks ▪ Have fun in Christmas technical fields parties & celebrations 24 We Care | For You BULGARIA Legion Run For the 2nd year, our amazing team participated in the Legion Run, the event that transforms colleagues to friends. GREECE Van Gogh Alive exhibition More than 50 of our colleagues visited the famous Van Gogh Alive exhibition, learning about the artist’s life and art. UKRAINE Painting Contest for Defender of Ukraine“ This year we celebrated the Defender of Ukraine Day with an on-site drawing competition for our colleagues’ children. Kids had to paint their father-figure or any family member, and the best painting got a special prize. UKRAINE English classes & library 22 of our colleagues participated in English classes taking place in our offices. Also, we organized a new library where our people can have access to business books. 25 GREECE Blood Donation Along with Bloode, -the 1st online platform to spread and systematize blood donating in Greecewe implemented our annual blood donation for 2018. It included blood and bone marrow donations for the Printec blood bank; available to our employees and their families as well as people in need. GROUP BULGARIA Athens Authentic Marathon First aid training 37 of our colleagues from Greece, Ukraine We participated in a First Aid training and Romania participated in the 5km, 10km dedicated to improving health and and 42km races on 11th of November. We all safety by teaching the skills required had fun, and many colleagues even to deal with emergency situations in exceeded their last years’ performance. the workplace or in any other place. 26 We Care | For You SLOVENIA Ljubljana Business Run We competed in the 3rd Business Run in Ljubljana. It is a running event where we participated in activities for teambuilding, networking and cooking. CROATIA In Be Heard focus groups we decided to improve our workplace. We enlarged some of the office spaces to improve our working conditions and we obtained new chairs for all employees. BOSNIA HERZEGOVINA HR awareness sessions as part of our Be Heard action planning Awareness sessions for all employees HR topics such as PPD, Competencies Model, Reward Scheme, importance of feedback etc. Besides Printec Bosnia team, our Cluster General Manager, Goran Martic, joined the meeting too and provided our people with his own examples from his Printec life experience so far. 27 GROUP Holidays around Printec Every year around Printec, we celebrate the winter holidays and the New Year. We exchange gifts, we organize office celebrations with our families, we decorate our offices and we have fun. Each year is unique, -like this year’s Hawaiian themed party in Sloveniabut what is common is joyful spirit of the season. 28 We Care | For Society We Care | For Society we volunteer, we share, we have fun. Supporting society and the “For Society” is Our main goal is to utilize our communities in which we operate is technological expertise and share our our group-wide knowledge with others. an endeavor that is being program that We also focus on supporting children accomplished through the selfless enables us to and families in need. help of our colleagues. offer back to the All of our activities are team activities, because we believe that teamwork and communities in collaboration are important in which we improving relationships and our overall impact in society. operate. Throughout the years volunteerism has spread across Printec and each year we note an increase in the involvement in social actions among Printec employees. 29 This year we used our We share the knowledge We support children knowledge for a good cause. Technology is the future and in Printec Throughout Printec our employees have been Our developers created a new we share our knowledge and expertise active towards helping children in need. with the next generation in order to software for a POS to receive educate them and inspire them to For the last 5 years Printec has been donations through contactless become the future developers or supporting the NGO The Friends of the transactions. engineers that will change the world. Child intending to take care and protect, not Make-A-Wish received a 2€ only sick or abused children, but any child donation by tapping a We regularly participate in educational who lives in conditions that are below the events like science festivals or tech threshold of relative poverty. debit/credit card on the POS. exhibitions and we arrange school visitation days where children can visit Each year volunteers donate food supplies, our offices and learn from our employees clothes, toys & books but most importantly first-hand what it means to work for a their time and positive attitude in order to put company like Printec. a smile on the face of these children. We participated in 20 activities group-wide, offering: Additionally, me visit schools and offer career advice and guidance to teenagers Thanks to the generous donations of Printec and our volunteers' we continue to cover the food, clothes, hygiene products, to help them shape their future paths. speech therapy expenses and the breakfast educational material, medicine & supplies of the children for a whole year. vitamins, speech therapy, toys & Additionally, we donate school supplies and equipment to local schools, we provide sweets, hygiene products and clothes and we offer to 15 organizations for children meaningful Easter and Christmas presents to children. & families in 7 countries 30 We Care | For Society 31 GREECE We Race for the Cure Race For the Cure is consistently our activity with the highest participation. Colleagues, friends and family gather each year in the center of Athens to raise awareness on breast cancer and celebrate and support the survivors. Planning Ahead Participating in the Race has become a tradition for Printec, and every year more people are eager In 2019 we plan on to help in organizing the event. participating in similar races in at least 2 additional countries. Let’s renew our participation for next year! 32 We Care | For Society GREECE We support Make-A-Wish This holiday season we use our knowledge for a good cause. Our developers created a new software for a POS to receive donations through contactless transactions. Make-AWish receives a 2€ donation by tapping a debit/credit card on the POS. This action was realized by Printec in collaboration with Cardlink and Easy 97.2. The POS has been installed at the Golden Hall, a shopping center in Athens. UKRAINE Helping children Helping children is a priority throughout the company and we provided a local orphanage with vitamins in order to help safeguard the children, now that winter is coming. BOSNIA HERZEGOVINA Donating to SOS GREECE Children's Villages Make-A-Wish dinner We supported the SOS Children's The life stories of children who Villages by donating instead of fought and won were inspiring to printing New Year's cards. The say the least. Printec participated in organization provides to children a dinner that celebrated life, with a warm family environment, supporting the work of Make-Aeducation and opportunities for a Wish Greece. better future. 33 “ The We Care program in Ukraine has We are not united just by working in Encouraging giving, organizing started recently, but I am proud on one company, we are all united by activities, spreading information to progress we`ve achieved, though there the match of personal and company customers about CSR, recycling is much work to be done ahead. And values. This helps me to see a bright and many more – these are actions you can clearly feel it when you meet future for Printec, which I personally we are doing now and we will Printec people all over Europe. plan to contribute also through the implement more extensively in the prism of CSR activities, which are future. Wherever I meet colleagues from embedded into the core strategy of Greece, Bulgaria and other countries, our company’s activities. I am confident that our lives have they are easily recognized by having to be lived with a purpose, something in common I will continue thinking globally and humanity, gratitude, grace, love, acting locally, which I have care and support. experienced when implementing CSR projects in Ukraine. -Yuliya Lavrenchuk UKRAINE Being able to live and work in The perfect balance, of professional In the period that is afront of line with our values, and personal engagement, where it’s us, we would like to utilize our surrounded with colleagues, not about monetizing your brand, regional presence in Adriatic all driven by similar way of but about being able to make an to spread activism in each of thinking and passion, where impact, to offer our time for our countries, and when it will caring for our business and organizing different actions to be possible to merge our “ carrying for our society goes support organizations and individuals initiatives and actions with along so naturally, is for me in our society, to impact others life, bigger impact. true purpose and meaning of and to show care for our the We care program. environment. -Vesna Simic CROATIA 34 We Care | For Society SLOVENIA BULGARIA Cooperation with the Police for Open-door day for students child safety We welcomed 15 students at our Each year we cooperate with the Slovenian premises, from technical schools. Our Police to create a free coloring book. This colleagues from all departments year the book had the title My role presented their role, their professional models . It presented different professions background and skills, and answered to to raise awareness among children in the some very interesting questions. district of Siska in Ljubljana. SLOVENIA Contributing towards enhancing security CROATIA Printec Slovenia received a bronze Supporting athletic badge from the Police department activities for our contribution in enhancing security. This came as a result of a Printec Croatia supported decade of excellent cooperation the Children Water polo between Printec Slovenia and the club based on Split, Police department (Ministry of the Croatia. Interior) in the field of ATM 35 security. CROATIA Christmas giving to families in need This year our colleagues supported the humanitarian association Dobra volja (a.k.a. Good will) This association supports many families all around the country that are in need. We are very happy that helped them bring some Christmas joy to so many homes. UKRAINE Christmas giving to orphanage This year Printec Ukraine team supported the Nadiya orphanage (children 3-14 years old) by providing warm winter clothes, presents, sweets, biscuits and greetings cards from Santa! CROATIA Christmas giving Traditional donation of our employees to children without parents. We offered toys & sweets to bring a bit of joy during Christmas. 36 We Care | For Society CROATIA Easter giving Employees participated in this volunteer action, where we supported local civil association DAJMO IM ŠANSU . This organization helps children without proper parental care, and/or with GREECE chronic and malignant diseases, as well as the single parents of these children. Friends of the Child Additionally, we gathered together and BULGARIA Every year we visit the Friends of the donated to an institution that cares for pregnant women and young mothers Easter donation Child to offer them breakfast supplies, clothes that we gather in our offices and with newborns and children up to 3 This Easter, we all gathered cover their speech therapy costs for an years old. This organization currently to offer sweets and entire year. The management of the supports 12 abandoned babies and 6 educational games to school explained that our continuous mothers and their children. By this children in need. We support of the organizations is cherished action we made Easter giving truly purchased Easter eggs and since their main issue is that they cannot meaningful! chocolates and educational predict when they will receive donations board games, to enhance or funding. learning and collaboration. 37 “ Living in a family, without real support, Every time we give a hug to a Be generous to makes children more vulnerable. child there, it is like we are Sometimes the family can be a source children, they will being recharged and of physical or psychological harm. empowered for many days… only give you love! Children who live in a healthy and We keep deep in our hearts Keep being steady environment are better their dark or bright smiles, volunteers! protected against the dangers of life. their need to show us how This protection is being given happy they are because we generously to children in need by the just managed to visit them! NGO “Friends of the Child” that becomes their “family”. -Evi Vasiliadou GREECE I am very proud of people I am working with, I am very thankful for their response, activity and for all the projects and initiatives we have on corporate level, and enormous gratitude for the CSR principles embedded into our working processes. I am sure we shall prolong with zest our contribution to a better society, so we can have happier people and healthier environment and stronger communities. -Yuriy Eysmont, UKRAINE 38 We Care | For the Environment We work efficiently Our Travel policy establishes that we minimize unnecessary relocations, and we have reduced travelling abroad for physical meetings with teams and clients to the absolutely Printec, operates in an industry with required. We recycle a small environmental impact, but We are responsible for recycling our we still want to become better. Our Car policy also establishes that machinery in a certified way and we the company car fleet consist, where have established recycling practices We have established the “We Care” applicable, of hybrid or diesel cars in our offices. We are working with policy and the “Environmental & (either owned or leased depending partners that recycle ink cartridges, Recycling” policy through which we set the framework for a more on the options available in the and batteries and we have waste We Care | For the countries of operation)​.where separation bins in our facilities. environmentally conscious way of working. possible, hybrid models need to be Many of our recycling efforts have a Environment is our used. double impact, on the environment and on society. For example in program that promotes The policies can be easily accessed through the company intranet, and Our Environmental & Recycling policy encourages going paperless Croatia, at the end of each month we send bottles caps to a humanitarian sustainability and in addition to that, each year we run awareness campaigns in our and plastic-free in our offices. We are digitalizing our archives and we are association that buys medication for people with leukemia and lymphoma environmental countries. reducing the use of paper. who cannot afford it. consciousness throughout the company. 39 Case Study Piraeus Bank, first among the Greek banks identified the need to digitize the processes executed by the cashier tellers, relationship managers and desk officers in the branches. The latter usually deal with transactions that take longer, thus the bank decided to start their e-signature project from there. To cut down on printing, manual signing, storing, transporting and physical archiving of documents, the bank equipped each desk with a signature pad and pen that allowed all transaction related THE RESULTS – Lower costs, faster documents to be signed electronically and as a final customer service and increased step to be automatically digitally archived in the document repository of the bank. efficiency is just the start The electronic signature process allowed for all the PROTECTION OF THE transactions to move on faster and better, updating in real-time all the systems of the bank, reducing ENVIRONMENT significantly the time needed, while maintaining the Electronic signatures help save highest security standards. The solution not only We help others work efficiently 100,000,000 saves time for the customer and the employee, but is also more secure, as the delivered signature pads Our products and services focus on the sheets of paper every year, have the ability to capture biometric data that digitization of business to consumer interactions, a quantity equivalent to more than compare the speed of writing, its acceleration, thus on the reduction of paper-based processes pressure on the pad, writing angles and other and unnecessary movement of people, 10,000 elements that allow for a secure verification of the documents and money. trees. signer. For example, one of our products, the e-signature is helping businesses work efficiently as the case For more on the Piraeus eSignature Case Study visit the website study highlights. https://www.printecgroup.com/images/resources/CS_Pireaus_eSignature.pdf 40 We Care | For the Environment CROATIA | SERBIA | BULGARIA Bottle caps for a cause In Croatia and Serbia, at the end of each month we send bottles caps to a humanitarian association that buys medication for people with leukemia and lymphoma who cannot afford it. In Bulgaria we participated in the national charity campaign Plastic caps for Future. ROMANIA Planting Trees Following the Chinese proverb: The best time to plant a tree was 20 years ago-the second best time is now , on the 13th of April, our Printec team together with Organizatia ECOTIC planted over 60 seedlings and cared for over 200 shoots. It was a great day and we do hope we'll meet again next year with more and more volunteers. 41 Waste separation & recycling In many of our locations around We recycle our countries we regularly recycle materials. We recycle paper, glass, plastic, batteries and printer electronic equipment cartridges. packaging material ink cartridges Last year we launched a recycling campaign, and we plan on bottle caps promoting our recycling program light bulbs even more in 2019. batteries Our goal for the future is to go plastic paperless and plastic-free in our paper offices. 42 What we achieved in 2018 leasing 20 activities grouphybrid or LED lamps diesel cars in all of our wide offering: food, facilities clothes, hygiene products, helping “Make-Aeducational material, medicine & vitamins, recycling 33 volunteers Wish” by creating speech therapy, toys & bottle caps safe disposal a software for for blood sweets, to 15 for a good and recycling contactless donation & cause in 4 of paper, donations through organizations for 14 volunteers countries toners & children & families in 7 batteries for bone marrow a POS in 1 country countries planting of 60 seedlings & celebration of implementation of employee caring for over 7 fitness activities engagement results: rewith participants from Woman’s Day 200 shoots in organized & improved offices, 6 countries: Athens & other 1 country communication skills training, Marathon the Authentic, national days cultural activities in People Management training, Legion Run, Race for the in our offices in 2 countries: onlabor legislation awareness Cure, Ljubljana Business 4 countries site business library, Run, Athens Bicycle visit to theater, Round, yoga & pilates in trainings in 4 museum & historical visit of 2 schools the office, intramural countries: site in our offices in 2 tournaments English courses, countries for communication professional skills, first aid advice & career training, stress orientation management 43 Acknowledgements Discover more Thank you www.printecgroup.com to everyone who volunteered, helped organize, or participated /PrintecGroup in any way in our activities, to every organization that gave us the opportunity to collaborate /printec-group-of-companies and give back to the community, to everyone who contributed to /PrintecGroup the creation of this report. 44
