2 0 1 9 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T Woolworths Group Limited ABN 88 000 014 675 Contents SECTION 1 Performance highlights Chief Executive Officer’s message 2 Our Group Purpose 3 Woolworths Group 2020 commitments 4 Our journey 6 Our business 8 SECTION 2 People: Embracing diversity 10 SECTION 3 Planet: For a healthy environment 26 SECTION 4 Prosperity: Founded on trusted relationships 46 SECTION 5 Sustainability metrics Sustainability metrics 74 Workplace metrics 76 Corporate governance 85 Materiality 86 Industry association 88 Glossary 89 United Nations Global Compact 90 Global Reporting Initiative 91 Assurance report 94 Company directory Inside Back Cover This is an interactive PDF designed to enhance your experience. The best way to view this report is with Adobe Reader. Click on the links on the contents pages or use the home button in the footer to navigate the report. Scope of report: Unless otherwise stated, this report covers all our operations in Australia and New Zealand for the 2019 financial year – 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019 (F19). Only workforce data (excluding safety) is included for our global sourcing offices in China, Bangladesh and Thailand. Partnerships. It is through the power of partnerships that we will be able to amplify our impact and deliver on our bold ambitions to become a more sustainable business. Working together to drive change has helped us achieve many of our results this year. With our customers we have removed over 3 billion single-use plastic bags from our environment. With our team members we are creating an inclusive culture that values diversity in all its forms. With our suppliers we are working together to safeguard the rights of the workers in our supply chain. With our community partners we are changing the lives of Australians and New Zealanders in need. With our shareholders we are creating sustainable long-term value. We are proud of our achievements, but we need to, and want to, do more to make things better. Better for everyone. Chief Executive Officer’s message The retail sector is being disrupted – rapidly changing customer preferences, increases in online shopping and, importantly, heightened customer and team expectations in regards to plastic, food waste and clean energy. It is against this backdrop of change that we are lifting our aspirations in regards to sustainability. We understand our responsibility to not only work to improve our own business, but to partner with our customers, suppliers, team and other stakeholders to build a better tomorrow. Retail is a team game, and our 2015 levels by 2030. This is consistent 190,000+ team members working with limiting warming to 1.5oC above together and advocating for our brands pre‑industrial levels. are critical to our success. Keeping Our team has continued to work our team, customers and visitors safe hard and has made significant steps continues to be our top priority and towards achieving – or in some cases our total injury frequency rate has exceeding – our 2020 Sustainability improved by more than 5% from 2018. commitments. However, real success We consider safety holistically and are goes much further than this. We want painfully aware of the mental health to integrate sustainability into the way challenges present in today’s society. that we go about our business every This year we launched our “I Am Here” day, so that every decision we make program to support our team and help is made with our purpose at its heart embed the importance of psychological – “Creating better experiences together... safety into our culture. Inclusivity to create a better tomorrow”. is another important element of this and we’re proud to this year have achieved We continue to be committed Gold Tier Employer status in Australian to providing genuine, transparent Workplace Equality Index for LGBTI reporting on our progress, and this inclusion for the second year running, year have increased our disclosure and to have launched our second in our most strategically important Indigenous Reconciliation Action Plan. areas of sustainability. Through our extensive agricultural On behalf of the Woolworths team supply chain we have observed the I am pleased to share with you our devastating effects that climate change 2019 Sustainability Report. is having on our farmers in Australia and New Zealand. We have also experienced this first hand during the Townsville floods in February. As a large user of electricity, we accept our responsibility to take action and have re‑set our emissions Brad Banducci reduction target to 60% below our CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Woolworths Group is a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). UNGC signatories embrace a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti‑corruption. In this report, we share our performance against the UNGC core values. 3 WOOLWORTHS GROUP Our Group Purpose SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Our Ways-of-Working etter experiences t How we work te b og 1 Our Purpose rea et c he Why we exist e W r. We PERFORMANCE s w ay as ork e alwving on e HIGHLIGHTS We o d im ’re -en pr -to nd eam t We put our customers 1st 2 PEOPLE ep g ke e s ou t t hi n We ple, re w ra I ca th s i m r sto ew ith g e c p in g fo en or in ri g h re d te e c i a l s We e do m k a m ly f r e f ra m he ee s ot pl y a sd 3 ay lw Ia Our Values Who we are PLANET I li ste n a n d l e a r n Woolworths Group Our customers are at the • Safeguarding the mental health 4 PROSPERITY heart of everything we do. and wellbeing of our team is a diverse group of retail members and the human rights We constantly embrace new businesses and brands of those in our supply chain and innovative ideas, and new across Australia and New ways of thinking and doing, • Listening to our customers’ Zealand united by our to enable us to be agile, concerns by reducing common Purpose – to create better experiences responsive and adaptable – ready to meet the evolving needs the amount of single‑use plastic or packaging from 5 our supermarkets SUSTAINABILITY in partnership with our and demands of our customers and our changing environment. • Using more sustainable customers, communities ingredients across our and networks, and make METRICS Our Core Values define us, Own Brand product range a positive impact on our and what we stand for, and our • Trialling or implementing Ways‑of‑Working describe the world. Our Purpose is new technologies, practices way we do things. Together, or policies to further reduce what drives us, and every our Purpose, Core Values the ecological footprint of our one of our team members. and Ways‑of‑Working help us business operations. to strive to continuously maintain We are committed to building the optimal culture and conditions greater trust, loyalty and impact for all of our businesses to thrive. through our actions. This Our sustainability work is centred report presents some of our around making a positive impact achievements from the 2019 across our network, whether it be: financial year. 4 People Woolworths Group embracing diversity 2020 commitments We value diversity across Woolworths Group. Our customers should see in our people a reflection of themselves and their communities. In this strategy we embrace targets that support diversity and, hand in hand with this aim, inclusion and respect. Promoting gender equity Launched in February 2017, 1 At least 40 per cent of executive and senior manager positions to be held by women. 2 our 2020 Strategy brings new No salary wage gap between male and female employees of equivalent positions on a per‑hour focus, resources and energy rate at all levels of the company. to sustainability. The targets assigned under Building our diversity 3 our People, Planet and 100 per cent of those responsible for hiring new team members to have completed unconscious Prosperity pillars cover bias training. Woolworths Group’s engagement with customers, communities, 4 Continue the focus on encouraging cultural diversity, with a commitment that by 2020 supply chain and team members, the Woolworths Group team will truly reflect as well as our responsibility the communities we serve. to minimise the environmental impact of our operations. Supporting Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander employment 5 Proportion of Indigenous team members to equal Federal Government Employment Parity contract. Once achieved, 2 per cent of our Store Operations team members will be Indigenous. 6 Proportion of Indigenous Graduates to equal Federal Government Employment Parity contract. Once achieved, 2 per cent of our Graduates will be Indigenous. Creating a safe environment 7 We are committed to maintaining a workplace that safeguards the health and wellbeing of our team members, customers and visitors. Offering opportunities for all 8 Achieve Gold Tier employer status in Australian Workplace Equality Index (AWEI) for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Intersex (LGBTI) inclusion. 5 WOOLWORTHS GROUP Planet Prosperity SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 for a healthy environment founded on trusted relationships We recognise Woolworths Group’s environmental We will focus on positive relationships with impact across our value chain and will work with our suppliers, give back to the communities suppliers, service providers and operations to innovate in which we operate, and rebuild trust for a healthy planet. We will support the move to a circular economy, source environmentally sustainable with our customers and investors. 1 commodities and respond to climate change. PERFORMANCE Moving to a circular economy Working with our business partners HIGHLIGHTS 9 Towards zero food waste going to landfill. 15 We will achieve a top quartile ranking in how we engage fairly and equitably with our suppliers as measured 2 10 Improve the recyclability of our by independent supplier surveys. PEOPLE own brand packaging and contribute 16 to the circular economy. We will focus on a best practice compliance system according to the Global Social Sourcing environmentally Compliance Program. We will collaborate with sustainable commodities peak organisations to improve workers’ lives. 3 11 Source key raw materials and commodities sustainably to an independent standard Giving back to the communities in which we operate PLANET by 2020. We will raise awareness of sustainably sourced products. 17 We will invest the equivalent of 1 per cent of a three‑year rolling average of total Group 12 Achieve net zero supply chain deforestation Earnings Before Interest and Tax (EBIT) for ‘high‑impact’ commodities in our own in community partnerships and programs. brand products, such as palm oil, timber, pulp and paper, and packaging. 4 18 We will publicly report social impact to quantify the positive changes we are PROSPERITY Responding to climate change creating with a focus on health, economic development and emergency relief. 13 Commitment achieved and revised: Reduce Woolworths Group’s carbon Creating shared value with our customers emissions to 10 per cent below 2015 levels. 5 14 Innovate with natural refrigerants and reduce refrigerant leakage in our stores 19 We will achieve leading customer satisfaction scores. SUSTAINABILITY 20 by 15 per cent of CO2‑e below 2015 levels. We will help our customers to consume METRICS all of our products in a healthy, sustainable way. 6 Our journey Woolworths Group Achieved: Launch 2020 No salary Commitments wage gap In February 2017 we launched our Salary wage gap between 2020 strategy, setting out our male and female employees of sustainability journey. equivalent positions reduced to 0.41% (statistically insignificant). Achieved: Woolworths Group Unconscious Achieved: Board 50% Women bias training LGBTI Inclusion The Woolworths Group Board is Unconscious bias training pilot Awarded Gold Tier employer gender balanced with 50% women. program completed. Planning status in Australian Workplace for rollout across the Group. Equality Index for LGBTI inclusion. PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY Reduce food Energy waste to landfill management Plastic bags Recommitted our goal to Commenced work on establishing Australian stores no longer offer reduce food waste to landfill. the Energy Management Centre single‑use lightweight plastic of Excellence. shopping bags. Country of Achieved: Responsible Sourcing Origin labelling 1% EBIT community Program contribution Reviewed and launched our new We were the first supermarket to commence labelling our own 1% of EBIT donated Responsible Sourcing Program. brand products. to community causes across Australia and New Zealand. Product renovation Health Influencer Day Removed artificial colours, Hosted our first collaborative flavours and added MSG Health Day in Australia and and reducing saturated fat, New Zealand. sugar and sodium across own brand products. 2016 2017 2018 7 WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 I am here program launch Launched ‘I am here’ program dedicated to supporting mental wellbeing. Achieved: LGBTI Inclusion Reconciliation Action Plan Destination Zero 1 Awarded Gold tier status in Launched our revised Maintaining a safe environment PERFORMANCE Australian LGBTI Inclusion Awards Reconciliation Action Plan. for customers, team members, for the second year running. suppliers and visitors. HIGHLIGHTS 2 PEOPLE 3 PLANET Taskforce on Achieved: Achieved: Climate‑related Financial Disclosure (TCFD) 4 Natural Refrigerant Emissions reduction Installed 18 natural refrigeration 2019 carbon emissions 18% Our disclosures to be aligned to the systems in our stores across below 2015 levels. TCFD requirements PROSPERITY Australia and New Zealand. Reset our Climate Risk Moving to a circular emissions targets Our revised emission targets are Assessments Held Group wide climate risk economy Improve the recyclability of Own 5 SUSTAINABILITY being put forward to the Science assessment workshops to Brand product packaging and Based Target Initiative. understand our key risks. reducing food waste going to landfill. METRICS Healthiest Own Responsible Sourcing Top supplier Brand products Program survey rating Woolworths Own Brand products Reviewed 768 audit reports Achieve top quartile rating in named the healthiest in Australia by of high risk suppliers. independent supplier survey for independent researchers. fair and equitable engagement. 2019 2020 8 Our business All parts of the Woolworths Group have been working better together to deliver the achievements described in this report. Woolworths Group Woolworths Group manages some of Australia’s and New Zealand’s most recognised and trusted brands. We endeavour to create a world‑class experience for customers across all our stores and platforms. PAGE PAGE Updated Parental Leave Policy 12 2019 Sydney Mardi Gras parade 24 Superannuation payments on paid parental leave 12 Paper straws 33 Flexibility Policy 13 Pulp, paper and timber 33 Pay Parity 13 Embedding the Five Freedoms in our practices 34 Family Violence Support Policy 13 Committed to working responsibly with animals 35 Supporting and upskilling our people 14 Responding to climate change 36 Inclusive leadership training 14 Refrigeration management 45 Reconciliation Action Plan 16 Understanding our suppliers 48 Resourcing the Future Indigenous Compass app 48 Employment Program 17 Responsible sourcing 50 Welcome to Country and Acknowledgment Making an impact 62 of Country at Woolworths Group 18 Salvation Army Emergency Services 67 Our continued focus on mental health 20 Voice of Customer 68 Australian LGBTI Inclusion Awards Gold Tier Employer 23 Australian Food We are Australia’s largest supermarket chain and operate 1,024 supermarkets across the country. Australian Food also includes FoodCo, Metro and WooliesX. PAGE PAGE Refugee Employment Program 14 Proudly cage‑free 34 Israa Alfarasi 15 Woolworths Organic Growth Fund 48 Lisa Hohoi 17 Supporting our dairy farmers 49 Defibrillators in store 21 Sustainable Supplier of the Year Electrical safety 21 – Humpty Doo Barramundi 49 Safety innovation 21 Launching responsible sourcing in our Australian horticultural supply chain 58 Reducing food waste 28 Making an impact 62 2025 national packaging targets 30 Woolworths Junior Landcare Grants 64 Reducing plastic across our stores 31 Our new partnership with Share the Dignity Sustainable seafood 32 is helping women and girls in need 66 Palm oil 33 Sourcing locally 68 Sustainable beef 33 Eastcoast Beverages 68 RSPCA Chicken 34 Scan&Go 69 Woolworths and the Business Benchmark The Kitchen 69 for Animal Welfare (BBFAW) 34 Making healthier eating easier 72 9 WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Endeavour Drinks Endeavour Drinks comprises 1,576 stores, including the Dan Murphy’s, BWS, Cellarmasters and Langton’s brands. PAGE PAGE Jawun Indigenous Community Program Welcome Here Project membership 19 22 Reducing landfill waste Making an impact 31 62 1 Sustainable packaging in drinks 30 Responsible service of alcohol 70 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS 2 New Zealand Food PEOPLE Our Countdown branded supermarket chain has 180 supermarkets across New Zealand, serving around three million customers every week. New Zealand food also includes CountdownX and franchise FreshChoice 3 and SuperValue Supermarkets. PAGE PAGE PLANET Women in leadership 13 Making an impact 62 Rainbow Tick in New Zealand 22 Creating more accessible supermarkets 69 Countdown’s Food Rescue Program 29 Making healthier eating easier 72 Plastic reduction in New Zealand 31 Health in New Zealand 73 4 PROSPERITY Portfolio Businesses BIG W BIG W provides Australians with great value across 183 stores, as well as online 5 SUSTAINABILITY choices for general merchandise. METRICS PAGE PAGE Women in BIG W 12 Shobola: Empowering women in our BIG W sponsors the Australian LGBTI Awards 23 Bangladesh supply chain 57 Green Factories leading the way in Bangladesh 42 Making an impact 62 VOC improvement 68 Hotels ALH Group is a market leader, operating 328 hotels, including bars, dining, gaming, accommodation and venue hire operations. PAGE PAGE Making an impact 62 Responsible gaming 71 10 People Embracing diversity The commitments in our People pillar exemplify our Purpose and Core Values. In partnership with our more than 190,000 team members, we are building an inclusive culture that celebrates diversity in all its forms. It is this diversity that enables us to engage, innovate and create better experiences for our teams and customers. Team members Voice of Team engagement score 196,000+ 80%  2.5% from F18 Remained steady in F18 Total recordable Proud @ Woolworths injury frequency rate 2,200+ (TRIFR) 14.99 members  5.72% from F18  29% from F18 Amelia Fogavini, Lisa Hohoi, Arjun Singh, Nuengruthai Nualphaka — Woolworths Supermarket Conder. 12 Promoting IMPACT: gender equality Commitment 1 Commitment 2 Sustainable Woolworths Group is committed to creating a culture Development Goal and workplace that provides all of our team members with access to the same benefits, opportunities and resources. We take our responsibilities to our people seriously, and regularly review our systems so that all obligations are being met. Where issues are identified we commit to rectification. 34% of executive and senior Updated Parental Superannuation manager positions held by women Leave Policy payments on paid Making things better for families parental leave is a core part of what we do at Woolworths Group – and this We are pleased to become includes supporting our team the first Australian retailer members who are at the start to introduce superannuation of their parenting journey. contributions when eligible team members take 12 months Woolworths is proud to have of parental leave. increased paid parental leave for primary caregivers to 12 weeks “We know Australian women are (from six weeks) and introduced retiring with a lot less super than Women in BIG W secondary caregivers’ leave men. As one of the country’s largest BIG W has exceeded expectations in gender of one week. Additionally, private employers, we want to play diversity in leadership positions, with more than team members who have primary our part in closing the gap. We hope 50% of leadership positions held by women. caregiver responsibilities for this new initiative will help to create a new child may also qualify an even more inclusive workplace for up to 24 months’ unpaid at Woolworths, where our goal parental leave. is that all team members can enjoy All team members have access the same rewards, resources and to our online parental leave opportunities, regardless of gender.” platform containing information Group Chief People Officer, and resources for those seeking Caryn Katsikogianis. to better manage their career and parenting duties. Woolworths Group is Australia’s top company in Thomson Reuters’ 2018 Diversity and Inclusion Index and 14th across the globe. Teresa Rendo – General Manager Commercial with 19 years in the business. 13 WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Flexibility Policy We care deeply about ensuring that each of our team members Women has the flexibility necessary Pay Parity in leadership In our Countdown to balance their work and life priorities. As we work together to achieve our Our Pay Parity Review methodology compares salaries of like‑for‑like roles of our team members across the Woolworths Group. 1 PERFORMANCE business, over the last financial year the number business outcomes, offering This analysis helps identify gender pay greater flexibility will enable gaps between our male and female team of women at General HIGHLIGHTS us to attract and retain members by grouping our positions and Manager level or above a diverse, committed workforce, career streams, also taking into consideration has increased from 50% in team member movements that can result in F18 to 63%. The number of and to improve wellbeing, 2 fluctuations in our gap. Our target is to remain senior roles held by women engagement, productivity, below a statistically insignificant 1% gap in our business has also innovation and effectiveness. and to report this annually after our annual increased from 33% to Offering greater flexibility also PEOPLE remuneration review cycle. 35% in F19. We’re working empowers us to adapt to an to provide women within ever‑evolving workplace, and our business the support they need to take on to changing customer needs leadership roles, including and community expectations. 3 through targeted training As a large retail organisation, and opportunities. In F19 there are many opportunities for we introduced a Women flexibility across the Woolworths PLANET in Leadership program, which has already helped Group. We recognise that 300 women from across flexibility means different things our stores and supply to different people and our new chain to develop their Flexibility Policy includes: leadership capabilities 4 and confidence. We are • Allowing team members committed to attracting to work hours that better and retaining female suit family, study and other PROSPERITY talent at all levels, from commitments graduates through to our female store • Flexible career opportunities Family Violence team members and our executive or senior • Flexible leave options Support Policy 5 leadership team. • Opportunities to work at flexible or diverse locations. Woolworths Group recognises that family violence affects many people SUSTAINABILITY in Australia and New Zealand and it can impact our team members and their ability to contribute effectively at work. Building on our work in New Zealand, METRICS Woolworths Group where Countdown has gained White is ranked Ribbon accreditation for its Family # 29 Violence Policy, in November 2018 we introduced a new Family Violence Support Policy across our Australian business. The policy formalises support options for anyone in our team globally in Equileap’s 2018 experiencing family violence, including Gender Equality Global free and confidential counselling, as well Report and Ranking, the as five days paid and five days unpaid only Australian retailer leave to cover matters such as medical in the top 200. and legal appointments or moving house. Jacqueline Jones, Countdown Store Manager 14 Embracing IMPACT: our diversity Commitment 3 Commitment 4 Sustainable Woolworths’ efforts to better reflect the customers and Development Goal communities we serve exemplify our commitment to maintaining a diverse, engaged and inclusive workforce. Voice of Team engagement score Supporting and Inclusive 80% upskilling our people leadership training At Woolworths Group, Recognising and harnessing supporting and upskilling our the diversity within our team members is an essential teams is an enabler of business investment in our people and growth, team member our future growth. Our team engagement, workplace members, from the newest innovation and productivity. through to the most senior, are In 2018, over 420 leaders provided with continued learning from across the business and development opportunities attended a series of inclusive Refugee to help them achieve personal and career goals. These leadership and unconscious Employment Program bias face‑to‑face workshops to opportunities include our develop and practice constructive In order to better reflect the culturally pathways in stores, formal and inclusive behaviours in diverse communities we serve, in F18 coaching programs, a Leadership the workplace. we implemented a program in partnership Toolkit and management and with Community Corporate to provide leadership training programs Over the last year, our Asia employment opportunities for displaced for current and future leaders sourcing teams and Countdown refugees from Syria and the Middle East, to of our business. We understand business has also rolled out our aid them in successful resettlement. We are inclusive leadership program, proud to report that through this program in that life changes and can throw aimed at addressing the potential F19, 55 refugees commenced employment in up unexpected situations – we our New South Wales and Victorian Metro have leave policies in place for unconscious bias in our hiring team, which is something that we stores. Our program is now set to expand into (covering areas such as parental, Queensland, South Australia and WooliesX. carer or compassionate leave) know can impact the diversity of our workforce. Over 360 team and other programs to support members have taken part in the our team members through program. While we continue the challenges they may face. to roll out this training, in the As part of this, we maintain coming year we will also evaluate various easily accessible the impact the program has tools and support programs, had on our recruitment process such as the Retirement and the resulting diversity of Planning Toolkit. our workforce, and determine our future plans for making the training accessible to more of our team members and embedding inclusive leadership practices and understanding more broadly. 15 WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 1 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS 2 PEOPLE 3 PLANET Israa Alfarasi 4 PROSPERITY Woolworths Supermarket, Liverpool, NSW Israa, a 42‑year‑old woman from Iraq, sought asylum in Australia with her mother in 2012. Before fleeing the conflict that destroyed her home, Israa studied accounting and worked as a primary school teacher. She has always been her 5 mother’s sole carer. As an asylum seeker, she was not permitted to work and only had access to six weeks of English courses. Language was a major hurdle for Israa, who desperately wanted to give back to the community which had taken her in. In 2017, Israa was granted temporary protection, enabling her to start studying and working. Swiftly making up for SUSTAINABILITY METRICS lost time, she immersed herself in study by enrolling in the Adult Migrant English Program, obtaining a security licence, studying aged care and completing a food handling and barista course. She also obtained a first aid certificate, a construction industry ‘white card’ and certificates in ‘Responsible Service of Alcohol’ and ‘Responsible Conduct of Gambling’. While Israa completed unpaid work experience at a local supermarket and café, she was unable to obtain paid employment. Israa’s brother successfully completed the Woolworths Refugee Program at the end of 2018 and, through him, Israa applied for the 2019 Easter intake. Successfully completing a work experience placement at Woolworths’ Liverpool store, Israa commenced as a permanent part‑time team member in mid‑April 2019. When asked what her job means to her, Israa responds, “It means everything for my life, to improve my life and my English. I can mix with other people, do something useful for me and for others in my family, and help other people at work who need help.” 16 Supporting IMPACT: Aboriginal and Commitment 5 Torres Strait Islander Commitment 6 employment Sustainable Development Goal We are proud to have continued to recruit, engage and retain more Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander team members this year. Reconciliation Action Plan On 5 July 2019, Woolworths • Listening to and learning from partners, while ensuring access to Group proudly launched our the knowledge and experience sustainable jobs and opportunities second Reconciliation Action Plan of Aboriginal and Torres Strait for individuals that have the (RAP) in Coffs Harbour, NSW. Islander peoples past and present, potential to create lasting and Our RAP outlines our continued especially in matters affecting multi‑generational benefits for commitment to taking actions that Country and First Nations families and communities. build relationships, respect and communities and networks opportunities between Aboriginal • Building strong and lasting and Torres Strait Islander and relationships with Aboriginal non‑Indigenous Australians. and Torres Strait Islander Our vision for reconciliation peoples, based on principles is a better future in which all of equal partnership, social Australians have an equal voice justice and respect for their and access to opportunities for cultures and histories in order prosperity. Our role in contributing to make a positive impact to reconciliation includes: where it is needed most • Advocating for, and actively • Building recognition, supporting, the Uluru Statement understanding and respect from the Heart by encouraging for the value of Aboriginal and constitutional change and Torres Strait Islander cultures, Reconciliation Action Plan July 2019 July 2021 structural reform to empower histories and achievements First Nations peoples with • A renewed focus on building constitutional recognition and business opportunities with a guaranteed voice Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander 17 WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 1 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS 2 PEOPLE 3 Lisa Hohoi Resourcing the PLANET Woolworths Supermarket, Conder, ACT Future Indigenous Employment Lisa Hohoi is a proud Murray Island woman from the Torres Strait, and Program is part of the Komet Clan. She joined Woolworths through the Resourcing the Future Indigenous Employment Program in 2016 as a Team Member in the Deli department in the Conder, ACT, store and has since been 4 PROSPERITY We have continued our promoted to the position of Deli Team Support. partnership with the Federal Government and Diversity Prior to starting at Woolworths, life was difficult for Lisa, who struggled Dimensions through our to get back into the workforce after having her children and escaping Resourcing the Future Indigenous a domestic violence situation. 5 Employment Program. In total, Lisa seized the opportunity to provide a new life for her children when 2,279 Indigenous team members she saw an opening to join the Program. For Lisa, being promoted to have joined us since the the position of Team Support has been “a really rewarding experience SUSTAINABILITY program's inception. Retention – it helped me grow my confidence as a woman within the workplace. rates remain high at 71%. I’m very happy to have really good people around me that genuinely METRICS This year, we again achieved our believe in me, see that I have potential, and recognise that I’m hard commitment that at least 2% working. This has opened up so many opportunities for me, and for that of our graduates be Indigenous I want to say, thank you, Woolies”. by refining our recruitment Lisa is a role model for her children. Seeing their mum in a Woolworths processes to identify and remove uniform, working hard and excelling in her role, has inspired her children systemic barriers to successful to be strong, resilient and self‑sufficient, just like their mum. Lisa adds, recruitment, and further “Working for Woolworths has taught my kids to reach for opportunities strengthening our graduate and to go further in life. They know that they can achieve anything as long engagement strategy. We are as they work hard and have the right attitude”. continuing to develop other opportunities for increasing Indigenous youth employment at Woolworths Group, including paid apprenticeships and internships. 18 Supporting IMPACT: Aboriginal and Commitment 5 Torres Strait Islander Commitment 6 employment Sustainable Development Goal Welcome to Country and Acknowledgment of Country at Woolworths Group Woolworths Group is working hard of Country or Welcome to Country to Country from Aunty Millie to ensure that we acknowledge the performed at meetings and forums. Ingram and the unveiling of an traditional custodians of this land This year we are talking with our Acknowledgement of Country and pay our respects to Aboriginal team members about why it is plaque that will be proudly displayed and Torres Strait Islander elders, important to do an Acknowledgment at the entrance of our building. both past and present. of Country when our people gather Acknowledgement of Country together. At our Norwest support plaques are currently being installed Across all businesses we are office we began Reconciliation in many of our stores, support offices encouraging our team members to Week with a didgeridoo performance and distribution centres. either have an Acknowledgement from Tom Saunders, a Welcome 19 WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Our vision for reconciliation is for a better tomorrow where all Australians have an equitable voice and opportunities for prosperity. 1 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS 2 PEOPLE 3 PLANET 4 PROSPERITY Photo: Trevour Veale / News Corp 5 SUSTAINABILITY Jawun Indigenous Community Program METRICS Steve Davies, Online Fulfilment Manager, Dan Murphy’s Steve is one of many team members to have taken part in a secondment under Endeavour Drinks' partnership with Jawun, which has been in place since 2013. Secondees are placed into six‑week programs across Australia to share their skills and experience to help Indigenous organisations with local community projects. Steve was seconded to the Lirrwi Yolngu Tourism Aboriginal Corporation in the North East Arnhem Land Region to provide an end to end solution for food logistics for their tourism business. “I gained a more thorough understanding of Australian history and the challenges confronting Indigenous Australians, and a greater appreciation of their diversity.” 20 Caring for the safety IMPACT: and wellbeing of our Commitment 7 teams and customers Sustainable Development Goal Safety We care about the physical and psychological safety and health of our customers, team and communities. We are committed to creating a safe work environment, where people arrive home from work and shopping free from injuries and illness. Our continued focus on mental health The mental health of our team This year we focussed on achieving course and participation continues members continues to be our a culture where ‘it’s ok not to feel to grow. The launch coincided with number one safety, health and ok, and it’s absolutely ok to ask for the final of the Woolworths’ Singer/ wellbeing priority. We aim help’ by implementing the ‘I am here’ Songwriter competition, which to establish a culture where program. The program is designed centred on the theme of being there psychological safety is seen as just to help us look out for ourselves, for someone. All proceeds from the as important as physical safety, and and others, in order to create competition were donated to Lifeline, we have implemented programs a supportive work environment for an invaluable resource Woolworths to assist our teams and their every team member, every day. continues to support and invest in. families, including: We consider that these three little We continue to encourage words can make a difference. • Team Assist (a free and our team to participate in the confidential psychological We understand that checking in with program and are exploring how support service) people is important, but that it can we can share the program with the be difficult to know what to do when broader community. • The deployment of over 1,000 someone tells you that they need trained mental health first aiders help. 'I am here' uses a combination across our business of team members’ personal stories • Our Woolworths Wellbeing Portal and online learning to demonstrate (providing online health and what a difference a small gesture like wellbeing resources to our team) having a cup of tea with a colleague, and being there for them, can make. • Our Woolworths Financial Wellbeing program (offering 'I am here' was launched in February interest free loans of up to $2,000 2019 with over 1,000 team members for team members experiencing completing the training in the first unexpected financial stress). 24 hours. Since then, over 17,000 team members have completed the 21 WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Defibrillators in store Electrical safety The Australian heart Foundation reports there are around 57,000 heart attacks each year in Australia 1 – the equivalent to one heart attack every 10 minutes. Electricity is critical in how we get our work done and serve our customers, 1 but it can also pose a serious risk to our We know that for every minute without CPR, or treatment with people if not properly managed. We PERFORMANCE a defibrillator to restart the heart, your chances of surviving a cardiac have identified key areas of improvement arrest go down by 10%. After 10 minutes without CPR or treatment, for electrical safety, and in March 2019 HIGHLIGHTS there is little chance of survival at all. we started a program to implement reinforced electrical cables and water 2 This is why Woolworths has begun installing Automated External Defibrillators (AED) nationally at our stores, starting with those where resistant power sockets in all of our medical services may not be immediately accessible. We have AED supermarket production departments. PEOPLE available in 500 stores as at June 2019, designed for use by anyone The program has been implemented as they are equipped with step‑by‑step voice instructions. in all Australian Supermarkets. 3 PLANET Safety innovation 4 PROSPERITY Hazard detection Wearable manual handling sensor When we launched our Gregory Hills ‘Smart Store’ in April Our Supply Chain division piloted a wearable ‘coaching’ 2019, we were excited to launch our first safety robot. The device to reduce manual handling injuries this year in our robot patrols the store floor and detects safety hazards Victorian Distribution Centre. The device monitors the wearer like spills and trip hazards, alerting a store team member where cleaning is required. The robot also watches over the hazard until addressed, to prevent injuries to team members and provides them with instant feedback (via vibration and an audible alert) when they make high‑risk movements that could lead to injury. The device also communicates with 5 SUSTAINABILITY and customers. the team member’s phone or tablet to provide coaching to improve manual handling techniques. METRICS Team members who participated in the pilot achieved a greater than 50% reduction in high‑risk movements on average, and provided positive feedback about the device. The pilot was extended to include team members at two more distribution centres in the first half of 2019 and, if successful at those centres, will lead to a wider implementation plan across the business for 2020. 1 www.heartfoundation.org.au/about‑us/what‑we‑do/heart‑disease‑in‑australia 22 Creating IMPACT: opportunities for all Commitment 8 Sustainable Development Goal We are proud to have achieved Gold Tier Employer LGBTI Inclusion status in the Australian Workplace Equality Index (AWEI) for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Intersex (LGBTI) inclusion for the second year running. Welcome Here Project membership In 2019, BWS has partnered with ACON to become a registered Welcoming Place, in support of ACON’s Welcome Here Project. The Welcome Here Project supports businesses/ organisations throughout Australia to create and promote environments that are visibly welcoming and inclusive of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Intersex and Queer/Questioning (LGBTIQ) communities. As a registered Welcoming Place, BWS stores are moving to proudly display a sticker and charter that let people know that LGBTIQ diversity is welcomed and celebrated at BWS. Rainbow Tick At BWS, our culture celebrates our people, who are encouraged to be themselves and have fun. This core in New Zealand value extends not just to our team, but also to our customers and our communities. We are proud to say Our Countdown business achieved Rainbow that teams in over 400 of our BWS stores have chosen to Tick accreditation in November 2018 for its participate in this initiative and the numbers are climbing. hard work in creating and providing a safe and inclusive workplace for its LGBTI team members and allies. Organisations that meet the Rainbow Tick benchmarks are committed to a quality improvement program focused on LGBTI inclusion across the areas of Policies, Team Training, Team Engagement and Support, External Engagement and Monitoring. 23 WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 BIG W sponsors the Australian LGBTI Awards 1 PERFORMANCE BIG W was a proud sponsor of the Australian LGBTI HIGHLIGHTS Awards for the third year running. The Australian LGBTI Awards seek to 2 highlight individuals and organisations with an outstanding commitment PEOPLE to the LGBTI community. We are proud to announce that Chelsea McPhail Rosenberg was awarded the title of 2019 Diversity Champion, a well‑deserved recognition for the significant impact Chelsea has made on LGBTI inclusion 3 PLANET at Woolworths Group. 4 PROSPERITY Australian LGBTI Inclusion Awards Gold Tier Employer 5 Woolworths Group is proud to again be recognised with Gold • Celebrating Wear it Purple Day (raising awareness Tier Employer status at the 2019 Australian LGBTI Inclusion of LGBTI inclusion and supporting LGBTI youth) across Awards for the second consecutive year. the Woolworths Group, nationwide SUSTAINABILITY The Australian LGBTI Inclusion Awards, based on the findings • Again partnering with the Sydney Gay and Lesbian Mardi of the AWEI, the national benchmark on LGBTI inclusion, Gras in 2019, with team members participating in their first METRICS recognise Australia’s top organisations for LGBTI inclusion and Sydney Gay and Lesbian Mardi Gras Parade this year celebrate leaders, individuals and networks that have made • Launching LGBTI inclusion training online to improve access a significant impact on LGBTI inclusion within their workplaces. for all team members Woolworths Group is the only retailer in Australia to have • Hosting a guest panel event to mark the Transgender Day achieved Gold Tier status. of Remembrance, to improve transgender awareness and In the past 12 months, Woolworths Group has undertaken inclusion across the Woolworths Group. initiatives to further progress LGBTI inclusion in the workplace, “While we know we still have more work to do, we are fully for example: committed to continuing to support and empower our LGBTI team • Holding educational LGBTI events and training sessions for members. It is a very exciting time to be at Woolworths – as a diverse team members and leaders team, we know we can create better experiences together, for • Hosting a diversity roundtable and networking event ourselves and for our customers, each and every day.” Rachel Mead, Woolworths Group Head of Diversity • Growing the Proud @ Woolworths Group network to 2,200+ and Inclusion. team members – a 29% increase in membership from the last financial year 24 Creating IMPACT: 8 opportunities Commitment Sustainable Development Goal for all LGBTI Inclusion 25 WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 1 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS 2 PEOPLE 3 PLANET 4 2019 Sydney Mardi Gras parade PROSPERITY At Woolworths Group, we constantly strive for an inclusive environment in which we celebrate the diversity of our team. We want all team members to feel valued, supported, respected and empowered – and to feel free to bring their whole selves to work. 5 SUSTAINABILITY The Mardi Gras Parade is the highlight of the Sydney Mardi Gras Festival and Woolworths Group is now a Major Partner. On Saturday 2 March 2019, with great excitement and anticipation, we joined METRICS the Mardi Gras Parade with our own float, for the very first time. Woolworths Group was proud to join other iconic brands to celebrate our belief in diversity, acceptance and equality. Our parade float celebrated the ways our customers engage with our brands in a fun and family‑friendly way. BWS, BIG W and Woolworths Supermarkets were all major contributors to bringing our float to life. Our float included 80 team members from across the business, who are all passionate advocates for inclusivity. Their joy and pride at being involved was visible on the day. The theme of our Parade float was Mardi Gras B Que – and was based on a backyard BBQ; an Aussie tradition celebrated by all kinds of families. Our float featured a rainbow family celebrating a backyard BBQ (with some added Mardi Gras sparkle!). 26 Planet For a healthy environment We recognise the impact that our business may have on the communities and environments in which we operate and take conscious steps to operate sustainably. We aspire to be a leader in sustainable business and continue to explore, trial and implement new initiatives, and partner with other stakeholders to amplify our impact and share our learnings. Total food relief Stores with diverted to people transcritical or in need waterloop system 18.8M 18 meals Solar power generation 2019 carbon emissions 10,686 18% MWH  below 2015 levels Anna Playfair‑Hannay, Animal Welfare Manager and her dog, Boss. 28 Moving to IMPACT: a circular economy Commitment 9 Sustainable Development Goal Woolworths Group continues to implement initiatives Sustainable Development Goal to reduce food waste, such as promoting greater organic recycling and strengthening our food rescue partnerships to provide hunger relief to those in need. Reducing food waste As the largest food retailer in Food rescue has doubled in the Australia, fighting food waste last year with the additional focus, and addressing hunger relief are and has only been made possible two of Woolworths’ priorities for with the support of food rescue building and supporting healthy agencies in our local communities and sustainable communities. as well as our key national partners: OzHarvest, Foodbank, Food waste is a $20 billion problem and FareShare in Australia. These in Australia and it is estimated partners are critical to rescue and that 40% of all food grown and redistribution of our surplus fresh manufactured in this country for Australian consumption is food, so that instead of going to landfill a lot of this food can instead Did you know? wasted. We are doing our part be donated free of charge to people 100% to reduce food waste going to in our communities affected by landfill through our national food insecurity. ‘Reducing Food Waste to Landfill Program’, which was rolled out to Overall our stores have continued Australian Supermarkets in July on average to reduce food waste 2018. This program was designed to landfill by 8% year on year, of our stores now to give store teams the education, for the past 4 years. have a program training, resources, time and equipment to better identify As of January 2019, 100% of to keep food and divert, surplus food away Supermarkets across Australia now have a program to keep food out out of landfill from landfill and towards at least of landfill. one of the following beneficial streams of; food rescue for hunger relief; donations to local farmers for animal feed; or commercial organic recycling for composting. 29 WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Countdown’s Food Rescue Program We continue to work towards zero food waste going to landfill in New Zealand and partner with more than 20 food rescue groups 1 throughout the country with the aim of achieving that goal. Our Food Rescue Program continues to be an integral part of our PERFORMANCE efforts. 100 per cent of Countdown stores work with local food HIGHLIGHTS rescue partners and farmers, donating surplus food with the aim of directly benefiting families or farmers in need in our local communities. In F19, this meant that approximately $5.2 million of food was donated to food rescue partners and $1.7 million of food surplus was donated to local farmers. To ensure the ongoing success of this important program, we’re also actively working 2 PEOPLE to support our partners through our Countdown Food Rescue Partners Contestable Fund, which has seen more than $435,000 worth of grants over the last three years go to 15 of our partner organisations. This year, the majority of funding awarded has gone towards helping our partners expand their operations – whether Equivalent number of meals1 that’s buying a new vehicle to transport food to recipients or hiring provided more team members to help them do their important work. We have also continued to work alongside our food rescue 3 to people in need partners to share ideas and best practice with each other through our annual Food Rescue Summit, which is also helping PLANET drive collaboration in the sector. Another important element in reducing food waste is what happens in store, and we are working on improving our in‑store waste management, and reducing our stock loss. Countdown’s zero food waste project, funded in part by the Ministry for the Environment’s Waste Minimisation Fund, will allow our business to identify further opportunities to reduce the 4 9.6Million amount of food currently going to landfill. PROSPERITY OzHarvest 5 Foodbank 2.9Million SUSTAINABILITY METRICS FareShare 1.2Million Local charities 5.1Million and others 1 The ratio of rescued food to number of meals is based on a 500g meal size, except for OzHarvest (F19 revised methodology) which uses 3 meals from 1 kg. 30 Moving to IMPACT: a circular economy Commitment 10 Sustainable Development Goal We are continuing to work to remove or reduce plastic packaging across our product ranges, and provide further opportunities for our customers to contribute to the circular economy through recycling. 2025 national packaging targets Sustainable packaging in drinks Endeavour Drinks is collaborating with APCO and industry leaders such as the In September 2018, Woolworths Winemakers’ Federation of Australia to identify and address sustainable packaging aligned to the packaging targets issues affecting the industry. Several initiatives are underway, including: set by the Australian Government and the Australian Packaging • A pilot waste audit at 22 stores in South Australia to identify improvements and how Covenant Organisation (APCO) sustainable packaging can be progressed at store level by committing that 100% of all • Identifying opportunities to reduce the quantity of plastic stretch wrap used own‑brand packaging be reusable, to distribute wine products across the supply chain and how to increase recovery recyclable or compostable by of this material 2025. Woolworths was the first • Developing, with APCO and others, a set of guidelines for retailers, winemakers supermarket to commit to the and their suppliers on sustainable packaging opportunities for wine, supported 'Australasian Recycling Label' by awards that recognise good performance which gives customers better guidance on which components • Collaborating with others in the industry to ‘lightweight’ wine stock bottles. of the packaging is recyclable. We will continue to add the label to more products as packaging is refreshed and updated. We have been working hard this year on making changes in line with these targets by reviewing our current range and introducing initiatives such as: • Introducing recycled content packaging on our Own Brand 600ml water • Adopting the ‘Australasian Recycling Label’ on many Woolworths’ Own Brand products including readymade meals, pre‑packed salads and yoghurt. 31 WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Single-use plastic bags Waste intensity removed from our stores (t/square metres) in the last year 28 26 27 3 Billion 24 22 Plastic reduction in New Zealand 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 As the consumer demand for less plastic has increased, so too has the pressure on our business to make 1 PERFORMANCE changes for the better. Over the last year we’ve delivered Reducing landfill waste HIGHLIGHTS some positive results. We’ve continued to remove plastic from our produce As part of Woolworths Group’s sustainability commitments, our Endeavour Drinks business is making great progress towards addressing the waste that goes to landfill 2 range. Since early 2018, we’ve removed more and improving the recyclability of its Own Brand packaging at its winery and production than 117 tonnes of plastic facilities in South Australia. PEOPLE packaging and just over With funding support from Green Industries SA’s Solid Waste Management 70 tonnes of cardboard Improvement Incentives Program and Dorrien Estate Winery, Vinpac and our from our stores. We’ve also Angaston production facility recently undertook an audit to measure their solid waste begun rolling out misting and recycling performance. units in our stores, allowing certain fresh produce to be Both sites had outstanding waste and recycling performance, diverting over 99% 3 displayed without plastic of waste from landfill. These sites deal with, on average, around 40 different kinds and packaging. To date, five of waste, including wine processing residuals, pallets, plastics, barrels and glass. stores have been upgraded Since this audit, these facilities have switched from single‑use to ceramic cups, begun PLANET this way, and a further recycling cork and are looking at innovative ways to recycle problematic waste, with the 30 stores will be completed aim of closing the gap to achieve zero waste to landfill. by the end of 2019. 4 PROSPERITY Reducing plastic across our stores 5 Produce our sweet potatoes and organic apples is now made SUSTAINABILITY Our customers continue to tell us that reducing plastic of recycled cardboard, rather than plastic. This is an packaging across the store, particularly for fruit and important start, and we will continue to remove excess METRICS vegetables, is a key concern for them. Plastic reduction plastic from our produce range over the coming year. is a complex task given that packaging protects the quality and extends the shelf life of fresh produce as Bakery they are transported and in turn reduces food waste, We've removed 505 tonnes of plastic packaging from another key concern for our customers. In response to our in‑store bakery items over the last 12 months. both issues, we have been working hard to identify and We’ve achieved this by replacing plastic with a reclaimed address excess plastic packaging across our produce and rapidly renewable sugarcane pulp product which range and have so far removed 313 tonnes of plastic from is certified home compostable and is also recyclable. our fruit and vegetables in the last 12 months, and close In April 2019, we were recognised for this vital work with to 500 tonnes over the last two years. We have reduced a special commendation at the Australian Institute of plastic packaging across a range of our products, Packaging’s annual Australasian Packaging Innovation including organic bananas, tomatoes, stone fruit, celery, and Design Awards. kale and organic spring onions. The tray we use for 32 Sourcing IMPACT: environmentally Commitment 11 sustainable Commitment 12 commodities Sustainable Development Goal Sustainable Development Goal We are constantly working to source high impact commodities and key raw materials from sustainable supply chains and raise awareness of sustainably‑sourced products with our customers, partners and suppliers. OpenSC chefs and restaurants around Australia supporting the Marine OpenSC is a new blockchain‑enabled Stewardship Council’s (MSC) food tracking platform developed in mission to ensure sustainable partnership between WWF‑Australia seafood for future generations. Sustainable seafood and BCG Digital Ventures. For the first time, the event was OpenSC can track individual jointly coordinated by the MSC and Seafood is a complex commodity products from origin to consumer the Aquaculture Stewardship Council to source sustainably due to the with the aim of helping businesses (ASC), which together raised awareness large range of globally sourced wild and consumers avoid illegal, regarding choosing responsibly farmed and farm‑raised species that we environmentally‑detrimental seafood (marked with the green offer. Working with fishermen and or unethical products, while ASC label) and sustainably‑caught farmers around the world can create also improving supply chain wild seafood (marked with challenges for us in identifying and accountability and transparency. the blue MSC label). tracking all of our sources, especially OpenSC was developed through when considering the varying size and a series of successful pilots with Traceability reporting capabilities of our suppliers. a number of WWF’s corporate Good progress has been made on In 2019, Woolworths became partners, including Woolworths. packaged seafood, and we continue to a signatory to the Australian build our understanding of the unique “Woolworths has been working Seafood Traceability Statement, sourcing profile of fresh seafood. with OpenSC to pilot this innovative an industry‑led business commitment technology as part of our ongoing towards best practice in traceability commitment to delivering high‑quality, across the seafood supply chain. Our partnership with the fresh and sustainable products to our We have also joined the Global World Wildlife Fund customers.” – Alex Holt, General Dialogue on Seafood Traceability, Woolworths and the World Manager of Quality, Health and an international business‑to‑business Wildlife Fund (WWF)‑Australia Sustainability at Woolworths Group. platform seeking to advance a unified established a partnership in 2019, framework for global seafood to provide us with technical advice traceability practices. Sustainable Seafood Week on the sustainability of our seafood supply chain, as well as offering Woolworths participated strategic recommendations to in Sustainable Seafood Week transition our entire seafood range in March 2019 – a celebration to more sustainable sources. of the certified fisheries, retailers, 33 WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Palm oil Paper straws In F19, we continued to support the production of Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO)‑certified sustainable palm oil and palm kernel oil in all our own‑brand food products. We are working hard with our suppliers to increase our use of certified sustainable palm oil across our product range through an increased uptake of the 1 RSPO supply chain certification process. We have identified all known and potential palm oil derivatives in our own brand Non‑Food products (such as cleaning products). We support the production of PERFORMANCE Reducing single‑use plastics these palm‑based derivatives and working with our suppliers to use RSPO‑certified is top of mind for many of our sustainable ingredient. HIGHLIGHTS customers, and following the We want to play our part in consumer awareness around palm oil products, and that’s removal of single‑use plastic bags why Woolworths is part of Tiger Trek, an educational experience at Sydney’s Taronga across the Woolworths Group. Zoo, designed to increase consumer sentiment towards Certified Sustainable Palm The Group ceased selling plastic straws in our stores in December Oil (CSPO). Woolworths Own Brand products are featured in Tiger Trek to highlight our strong commitment to using sustainable palm oil and palm kernel oil, and to build 2 2018. This removed around 134 public support to transform the industry. million straws from circulation PEOPLE per year. Sustainably sourced own brand commodities: 3 PLANET Sustainable beef PACKAGED 4 CHOCOLATE TEA COFFEE SEAFOOD SUGAR We believe our role is not just to avoid negative impacts from 100% 100% 90% 42% 90% PROSPERITY deforestation, but to promote responsible production that benefits people, communities and the planet. An effective approach to address deforestation will require strong collaboration. As such, we will Pulp, paper and timber 5 continue to actively engage with a variety of stakeholders We are progressing well towards our target that all products containing paper, pulp SUSTAINABILITY to identify and protect high and timber are sourced from independently certified sources or post‑consumer METRICS conservation value areas within recycled content. As of June 2019, we are proud to report that 89% of our Own Brand our supply chains and work products sold in our Australian supermarkets, and 91% of our Own Brand products in Countdown supermarkets already meet our commitment. with suppliers, governments, producers and other corporate In Woolworths Supermarkets, we achieved the following: and NGO partners to achieve • Own Brand toilet paper, tissues and paper towels all come from Forest Stewardship this. Woolworths is a signatory Council (FSC)‑certified or recycled sources to the Australian Sustainability • All Own Brand cards, wrapping paper, gift bags and tags are FSC‑certified Beef Framework which tracks • All paper and timber products in our Armada and M.I.N.T. ranges are FSC‑certified. performance annually over • As seen in our M.I.N.T. and Armada ranges, we are also embracing bamboo a series of indicators, including as a sustainable alternative to timber‑based materials. It is a rapidly renewable environmental stewardship – one resource, with most species maturing quickly in three to five years. Bamboo can of which is ‘the balance of tree be grown using less pesticides, fertilisers or irrigation, does not require replanting and grass cover’. and has a lower environmental footprint than timber‑based products. 34 Animal welfare Animal welfare is important to us and to our customers. We are committed to working with our farmers and partners to focus on good animal welfare management in our supply chain. Proudly cage‑free Since 2015, all Woolworths branded eggs are cage‑free; laid by hens free from close confinement. We are continuing our work towards using only Embedding the cage‑free eggs as an Five Freedoms ingredient in Own Brand products by 2025. in our practices RSPCA Chicken We are also committed We are proud to report that all fresh Own to be cage free by We continue to be the leading Brand chicken sold in Woolworths is now 2025 in relation to all Australian retailer on animal 100% RSPCA‑approved. supplier‑branded eggs welfare, and constantly strive We are working hard with our suppliers and in the year to date to work responsibly to progress to transition all of our ingredient chicken we have seen a 6.7% and influence best practice in Own Brand products to RSPCA‑approved decline in caged egg sales. in the responsible sourcing or equivalent standard by December 2020. of dairy, beef, lamb, poultry, Currently, we are at 95% compliance We are proud to report (up from 70% last year). that we have been eggs, pork and aquaculture awarded the Compassion products. Our approach is based Free range chicken In World Farming (CIWF) on, and endorses, the following All free range chicken sold in our stores is Good Egg Award in 2019 ‘Five Freedoms’, proposed by the certified to the standards set by Free Range for our commitment to Farm Animal Welfare Committee: Egg & Poultry Australia Ltd for production and quality. ending the sale of caged eggs and caged egg 1 Freedom from hunger and thirst products in our stores. 2 Freedom from discomfort Woolworths and the Business Benchmark for 3 Freedom from pain, injury or disease Animal Welfare (BBFAW) The BBFAW is the leading global measure 4 Freedom to express of farm animal welfare management, normal behaviour policy commitment, performance and disclosure for food companies. To demonstrate our commitment to 5 Freedom from fear and distress continually improving animal welfare in our supply chain, we work closely with CIWF to maintain and improve our internationally‑recognised BBFAW We source all fresh beef, score. This year, Woolworths was again lamb, pork, poultry, eggs rated Tier 3, the highest rated retailer for and dairy products from animal welfare in Australia. Australia, to support our local communities and networks. 35 WOOLWORTHS GROUP The livestock team works closely with our farmers SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 and suppliers to ensure the highest quality protein product is delivered every time. Spending time on farms and building a strong rapport and relationship is a vital aspect of our business. This ensures a sustainable and consistent product is delivered. Many of our farmers and suppliers have had Committed to working a long‑standing relationship with Woolworths for responsibly with animals generations, and they are focused on delivering a consistent and quality product each and every 1 time with a strong focus on animal welfare. PERFORMANCE We are committed to working responsibly with the animals in our care, and continue to drive and influence best practice within our MATT SPRY, HIGHLIGHTS supply chain. That is why we have a dedicated animal welfare manager and livestock team. SENIOR LIVESTOCK MANAGER – BEEF Our Animal Welfare Manager, Anna Playfair‑Hannay, is responsible for the day to day management of animal welfare within our supply chain. She works together with our internal teams, suppliers and farmers to deliver and embed of our animal Animal welfare is integral to any business that works with animals and is especially important 2 to Woolworths. Good products start with good PEOPLE welfare commitments and standards. ingredients so it is fundamental for Woolworths Our Livestock team are based regionally and spend most of their time on farms with our suppliers. Combined, they have over 250 to ensure animal welfare is never compromised years of experience and are responsible for buying cattle, sheep and that we work together to continually improve and pigs directly from farmers we know and trust to bring our our standards. customers the best quality meat. ANNA PLAYFAIR‑HANNAY, ANIMAL WELFARE MANAGER 3 PLANET 4 PROSPERITY 5 SUSTAINABILITY METRICS Sam Burton Taylor, Beef Farmer; Anna Playfair‑Hannay, Animal Welfare Manager; Matt Spry, Senior Livestock Manager – Beef. 36 Responding to IMPACT: climate change Commitment 13 Sustainable Development Goal We recognise the effects of climate change to our customers, our communities, our business and our planet and remain committed to contributing to climate change mitigation. We have revised our direct emissions target to 60% below 2015 levels. Australia’s climate is characterised by variability and extremes. CSIRO’s State Climate change is a systematic risk that presents risks and opportunities Climate change strategy of the Climate 2018 report outlines throughout our portfolio. We are Climate change is part of our broader that Australia can expect to experience transforming our business, and sustainability strategy which is further increases in temperature, with sustainable success in a carbon described on pages 4 to 5 of this report. more extremely hot days, an increase constrained future is one of many We are focused on improving the in fire risk, high‑intensity storms, and drivers for this. emissions intensity of our operations, intense heavy rainfall. to contribute to climate change Woolworths Group is acutely aware Our position on mitigation as well as reducing our business costs. that the way food is produced is impacting our environment. Agriculture climate change is responsible for 75% of deforestation worldwide, and is the largest We accept the Intergovernmental contributor of non‑CO2 greenhouse Panel on Climate Change’s assessment of climate change science and have Task Force on gas emissions. While there may be enough food for everyone on the planet identified climate change as a material Climate‑related sustainability issue relevant to our today, this may not be the case in the future. Recently published scientific businesses (see materiality assessment, Financial Disclosures work suggests that climate change may page 86). We understand the responsibility we carry in mitigating Woolworths Group supports reduce crop yields by 2% per decade climate change and we are supportive of the recommendations of the over the next 100 years and the poorest Australia’s commitments under the Paris Task Force on Climate‑related regions of the world are expected Agreement to limit global warming to Financial Disclosures (TCFD) to be the worst hit. 1.5°C–2°C above pre‑industrial levels. which has developed voluntary, We acknowledge that the world consistent climate‑related Our business may be impacted financial disclosures for is undergoing climate change, by the long term effects of climate companies, and is committed and global food systems must be change, including: to providing stakeholders with transformed. We have a responsibility to act to reduce our own emissions • Increased severity or regularity of information in relation to how as a business, but also understand extreme weather events which may we are managing climate our role to help influence this future result in business disruptions, changing change risks. We recognise we evolution of our industry. supply conditions, safety risks for are on a journey to enhance our our team members and customers, management and disclosure As we progressively adopt the and damage to our physical assets and of this critical issue and will recommendations of the G20 transport infrastructure work to progressively improve Financial Stability Board’s Taskforce our disclosures against the on Climate‑related Financial Disclosure • Changes to global policy and TCFD recommendations, (TCFD), we continue to grow our government regulations aiming to be completely aligned understanding of the key climate risks • Changes to customer needs, by 2020. for our business. preferences and behaviours. 37 WOOLWORTHS GROUP Updating our emissions SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Climate change actual or potential climate‑related reduction target to impacts to the Company and governance making recommendations to the a 1.5oC trajectory Board and its relevant committees, as appropriate, regarding its The Intergovernmental Panel on We are striving to continuously findings. As part of this process, this Climate Change’s (IPCC) 2018 Special improve our approach to climate year we conducted an assessment Report on global warming of 1.5°C change governance, to help embed 1 to determine the climate‑related outlined that global warming is likely it within our operations through risks and opportunities we face; to reach 1.5°C between 2030 and improved procedures and Board utilising the recommendations of 2050. The report also highlighted that oversight that strengthens our PERFORMANCE the Task Force on Climate‑Related climate‑related risks for natural and accountability. We continue to Financial Disclosures (TCFD). human systems are significant even define roles, responsibilities and HIGHLIGHTS at 1.5°C. We unequivocally endorse procedures at every level of our Heads of Business Units and the findings of the IPCC and recognise business from buying teams Business Areas are responsible for its call to action on climate change 2 to the Board. identifying, assessing, responding, from all sectors of society. Woolworths Group considers managing and reporting upon As a food retailer, Woolworths has climate change to be a critical, climate risks within their business an extensive agricultural supply chain, PEOPLE board‑level strategic issue. The units/area and implementing and the agriculture sector is subject Board Sustainability Committee appropriate risk treatment where to climate‑related risks arguably (SusCo) oversees our Group‑level risks exceed risk appetite. The more than any other part of the response to climate change risks Woolworths Facilities Management economy. Assessing climate risk in the and opportunities. SusCo comprises team is responsible for the energy agriculture sector requires strategic three directors and an independent Chair, and reports directly to the efficiency and greenhouse gas emissions of our own operations, long term planning and management strategies focused on the medium to 3 and manage our board‑endorsed long term, and it is because of this that PLANET Board. Climate change forms part of our sustainability strategy, progress energy strategy targeting we are committing to a science‑based on which is reported to SusCo on supply, demand and innovation emission reduction target for 2030. a quarterly basis. As such, SusCo opportunities to reduce our With warming already surpassing 1°C has responsibility for reviewing carbon emissions. above pre‑industrial levels, we have 4 engaged management at the very highest levels on the practical steps involved in becoming a low carbon PROSPERITY business. Constantly improving environmental performance has Risk identification change is identified, assessed and monitored in line with the Group Risk become a business‑as‑usual activity process Management Policy. for Woolworths. This has driven cost savings and delivered very 5 Strong risk governance provides real improvements in operational Woolworths Group identifies for formal and informal oversight efficiency, giving confidence climate‑related risks and opportunities of climate risk from both top down that bold sustainability targets SUSTAINABILITY as part of our Group risk management (at an enterprise level of material can unlock innovation and new process in line with our Enterprise Risk risks) and bottom up perspectives. commercial opportunities. Management (ERM) framework. The METRICS It improves decision making by ERM framework comprehensively sets considering both the consequences It is because of this that we are out the requirement for consistent committing to an updated emissions and the rewards associated with risk identification, assessment, escalation, reduction target that is in line with the taking and risk management. management and monitoring of risks level of carbon reduction required to across the Company through the major The Board Audit, Risk Management limit global warming to 1.5oC above risk categories: and Compliance Committee (ARMCC) pre‑industrial levels. is the primary Board committee Using the Sectoral Decarbonisation • Strategic risk that has oversight of Enterprise Risk Method, we investigated the 2oC and • Operational risk Management (ERM) framework and 1.5oC warming trajectories and modelled • Financial risk the Group Risk Register. Governance what it would take to achieve these. is supported by the Woolworths With a sector trajectory established • Compliance risk. Executive Committee and relevant from the Science Based Target (SBT), As a material business risk included committees and forums across the we traced back to 2030 to what our in our Group Risk Register (see Group. Specific oversight of climate emissions target would need to be. The Annual Report page 31), climate risk is managed by SusCo. analysis found that Woolworths’ direct 38 emissions need to be 60% less than management. We are also conscious of strategies and continually improving 2015 emissions levels by 2030, which the role we play to show leadership and the energy efficiency of our business in becomes our new target. help to raise the ambitions of others. order to meet this ambitious goal. With Committing to a science‑based target Through our continued investment the increasing speed of technological helps Woolworths improve our climate in abatement measures such as onsite improvements in energy efficiency and resilience. Taking ambitious action solar, and the phase‑down of synthetic renewable energy production, we believe helps Woolworths stay ahead of refrigerant use, we will achieve there will be new and exciting carbon future policies and regulations to limit significant emissions reduction in our reduction opportunities in the future that greenhouse gas emissions, ensure we business. However, we are working we cannot accurately forecast today. comply with Australian Corporations on our pathway to achieve the 1.5oC We are working with the Science Based law to the highest standard and the target. We are committed to actively Target initiative to have our target growing requirements on governance scanning emerging technologies, independently assessed and approved and and disclosure in relation to climate risk explore renewable energy sourcing will report once this process is complete. Climate risks Risks were identified in the following themes, and the outcomes are discussed in the following sections. Potential financial impacts have not been modelled, however indicative and opportunities financial impacts were determined using our Enterprise Risk Management framework. Climate change risk themes PHYSICAL MARKET TECHNOLOGICAL REPUTATION POLICY CLIMATE ISSUE POTENTIAL RISK MITIGATION AND OPPORTUNITIES Policy Change in policies which apply a carbon We are looking into conducting scenario analysis price will impact our energy, fuel and raw to establish the potential impact of a carbon material costs and operating costs for price on our direct operating costs, and integrate refrigeration systems. these costs into our business planning and decision making. The delayed adoption of new technologies in We will investigate new initiatives for optimising Technological our facilities will reduce Woolworths Group's efficiencies such as innovative renewable energy competitiveness. installation, batteries and renewable energy procurement approaches. Our science‑based target will bring particular focus to this work. Consumer and community expectation is Woolworths Group will continue to actively engage that the Woolworths Group, being an iconic with our stakeholders and improve our disclosure brand and ASX10 company, will lead in on climate‑related risk management. We will work Reputation Risk mitigating and adapting to climate change. to ensure that our existing and future commitment As more extreme weather events occur in for climate action is effectively communicated. relation to climate change, if Woolworths Group fails to act and communicate climate action, there is a risk in being perceived to be laggards and ‘climate change culprits’, resulting in brand/reputation damage. Our operations are susceptible to extreme We will assess the use of climate modelling Extreme weather weather events such as flooding and to assess the risks to physical assets and help impacting our: electricity blackouts. This can lead to us plan for extreme events. • Facilities increased product damage and stock • Stores, distribution, write‑offs. There is also potential wellbeing logistics operations • Teams. risks for our teams as, for example, the number of extreme heat days increase. 39 WOOLWORTHS GROUP Identifying the climate risks and opportunity During the year, we undertook risk assessment workshops attitudes, met with increasing public concern about SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 with key stakeholders across the Group to assess the climate change, ethical sourcing and health will likely potential physical and transitional risks that may arise affect both customer preferences and stakeholder under Australia’s changing climate, their impacts and their expectations of Woolworths Group’s role as a large opportunities for Woolworths’ operations. listed company. Given the breadth of the impacts of climate change and our • Suppliers: Woolworths has a large and complex supply expansive supply chain, the climate risk identification and chain network across Australia and internationally. evaluation workshops were undertaken in two sessions: Physical climate‑related events such as droughts, 1 • Operational risks (retail stores, logistics, cyclones and flooding, along with climate‑related distribution centres) regulatory interventions, can directly affect the quality • Upstream and downstream risks (suppliers and quantity of fresh produce and compound business PERFORMANCE and customers). disruptions. An overview of the potential climate risks on these areas of HIGHLIGHTS • Operations: The transport, distribution and storage our business is as follows: infrastructure for our businesses are expected to grow, • Customers: Woolworths Group’s corporate trust and as customer demand continues to increase for more brand association could be impacted by climate change, if our ability to meet customer demand for sustainable, low‑price, high‑quality products is compromised. convenient delivery solutions. Greater centralisation of infrastructure assets (such as large distribution centres) could potentially concentrate our exposure to the 2 Moreover, the definitive momentum towards sustainable physical impacts of climate change. PEOPLE Potential disruption and relocation of commodity supply chains 3 PLANET According to the latest IPCC report, Australia will observe: • Global and local sea level rise (further sea level rise and ocean acidification) • Changes in temperature (further increases in sea and air temperatures, more hot days and marine heatwaves and • Extreme weather events (cyclones, storm surges, bushfires). fewer cool extremes) This is a new paradigm for Australia’s agricultural sector, and • Changes in precipitation (decrease in rainfall across Southern Australia with more time in drought, but an increase in intense heavy rainfall throughout Australia) it could have widespread supply‑chain implications for our fresh food and drinks businesses. Acute shocks to supply will increase price volatility in the food industry. We have 4 PROSPERITY identified some potential risks in the table below: ACUTE RISKS CHRONIC RISKS Droughts affects fresh produce, and lead to price shocks for customers. Vegetables, fruit and honey have historically been Suppliers’ ability to adapt to climate change may have long term effects on our supply chain and logistics. This includes cold‑chain 5 SUSTAINABILITY vulnerable to price spikes during Australian droughts. management issues and current distribution centres and logistics not being in locations that are optimal for sourcing produce METRICS in the future. Cyclones and storm surges can affect produce that is grown Diversified sourcing will provide some insulation from climate in concentrated locations in Australia, such as bananas. risk for products where more alternative growing regions exist (for example, where berry farms can shift further south). However, risks are heightened for products that have limited options for relocation (such as wine grapes) which could deeply affect availability of produce and price to customers. Heatwaves may affect the quality of produce from farm to store, Higher priced goods may lead to substitution/reduction increasing damage and write‑offs should the cold‑chain be in demand. compromised along the way, especially for delicate fruits such as berries, mangos and avocados. 40 We examined the potential climate‑related impacts on key commodities, examples of which are shown below: PRODUCT CURRENT CONDITIONS PROJECTED CLIMATE CHANGE IMPACTS Beef cattle are grown in every Australian state and Warmer and drier climates in the future will contract territory with cattle breeds of temperate origin, pasture‑growing seasons, leading to lower and more (such as Angus and Hereford) typically raised in variable animal stocking rates and increase reliance on Beef southern regions, grazing on intensively managed supplementary grain feeding. The negative effects of pastures. Woolworths mainly sources beef produced climate change on the grain industry (see grain section in Queensland, with smaller production from NSW below) may have flow‑on costs to dairy production. and Victoria. Reduced rainfall will limit the capture of runoff to supply drinking water, an issue highlighted during the Millennium Drought. Increased heat stress may lead to farmers choosing more heat‑tolerant cattle breeds, possibly of lower meat‑eating quality. Commercial chicken meat production is established Heat stress for broiler chickens causes them to reduce in most states and territories in Australia. Major feed intake, resulting in poor weight gain and poorer Poultry chicken‑growing areas are generally within 100 meat quality. Heat stress affects laying hens’ laying rate, kilometres of processing plants, with many of the largest and reduces egg weight and shell quality. The negative operations within 50 kilometres of a capital city. The effects of climate change on the grain industry (see ideal temperature range for broiler chickens to thrive is below) will have flow‑on costs to poultry production. 18–22°C, and 19–22°C for laying hens. Intensive poultry industries rely heavily on feed such as wheat and barley. Bananas 85% of Australia’s bananas come from North Tropical cyclones can destroy large portions of banana Queensland’s coastal region. crops (as occurred with Cyclone Yasi in 2011). Future changes to tropical cyclones are uncertain, with studies projecting a lower frequency of cyclones but increase in their intensity. Apples Apples are largely resilient, but they are sensitive Climate change is expected to increase the number of to extreme heat conditions. As little as 10 minutes hotter days (more than 35°C) in fruit‑growing regions of extreme sunlight (more than 35°C) is enough to such as Goulburn Valley, increasing the rate of fruit cause penetrative burns through apple skin, leading damage. Additional netting may be required, which to sun damage. could add to production costs. Grown in subtropical fruit trees, avocados need Hot weather can cause sunburn damage and yield a frost‑free climate with little wind, as high winds can a smaller fruit. Temperatures above 35°C can reduce Avocados increase moisture stress, dehydrate the flowers and flowering, because some avocado trees only produce reduce pollination. Both male and female plants need flower buds under cool temperatures. As the climate to be open for as long as possible to increase the chances warms, daily temperature ranges will narrow in the of pollination. tropics and sub‑tropics, reducing the overlap between open stages of male and female parts and thus decreasing pollination chances. Lemons are commercially grown throughout Australia Temperatures over 37°C can cause trees to shed fruit Citrus and are the dominant citrus crop in central NSW and too soon, reducing yields. In the southern states, shifting NT. Lemon trees flourish in warmer, sunny climate with production further south is less of an option, with spring mild winters and are frost sensitive. Their optimum frosts becoming a particular risk if trees have flowered temperature range is between 25–30°C. due to warmer winters. Most grains are highly dependent on water availability. Water scarcity will increase due to more frequent and Grains Half of Australia’s corn production comes from rain‑fed extended droughts. While the price of grain commodities agriculture, and yields are highly variable. Soybeans are is linked to the global market, and dependent not just an annual summer legume grown in irrigated or heavy on Australian conditions, Australia is a major supplier rainfall areas of southern Australia. Irrigated paddy of grain globally so droughts in Australia influence rice requires ample water resources. Wheat growth global prices. Increased atmospheric carbon dioxide can is strongly affected by rainfall and temperature. increase wheat growth but decrease nutritional value. Wineries Wine grapes are Australia’s largest fruit industry, and Iconic winery regions such as Margaret River, Barossa mostly come from areas with a favourable temperate and Riverina will be affected by higher temperatures and or Mediterranean climate. lower rainfall, especially for red varieties such as Shiraz, Cabernet Sauvignon and Merlot. 41 WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Changing customer preferences What’s next? The demand for sustainable of the physical impacts of climate Woolworths has committed to monitoring, managing and reducing products is growing, and consumers change, whether it is through where possible, greenhouse gas are increasingly making purchasing exposure to bushfires, extreme emissions of our operations, and choices based on not only what storms, or the rise in costs for we are working to understand and is good for them but what is good certain living staples on the dinner address the risks created by climate for the planet. The EAT‑Lancet table. New research and technology change for our business. Commission report, published into low carbon food alternatives We have undertaken: in early 2019, recommended the such as lab grown meats and edible 1 planetary health diet as a global insects, currently present in the • Energy price risk analysis, and reference diet that is best for health market as niche products, may invested in a range of initiatives and the planet. It calls for global become more readily available. that optimise our energy use and PERFORMANCE consumption of red meat and sugar boost budget certainty to decrease by more than 50%, • Scoping research to understand HIGHLIGHTS and consumption of nuts, fruits, the impact of water shortages vegetables and legumes to increase on our supply chain, especially by 100%. The report also calls for for 13 of our key product groups. dramatic reductions in food losses and waste and major improvements in food production practices We will continue to work to deepen our understanding of the 2 climate risks identified through our including fertiliser and water use. assessment processes. We will also PEOPLE undertake scenario analysis in the In the coming years, consumers will coming year and will report on this experience and become more aware in our 2020 Sustainability Report. 3 PLANET 4 PROSPERITY 5 SUSTAINABILITY METRICS Graeme Wellman, Endeavour Drinks Viticulturist 42 Our emissions profile We emit greenhouse gases both 553,801 CO₂e of direct (scope directly and indirectly. Emissions 1) emissions which mainly come from our retail stores make up from our use of refrigeration around 90% of our direct carbon gases and natural gases at our 2019 carbon emissions footprint, mostly resulting from stores. Electricity accounts for the 18% activities such as refrigeration, majority of our emissions footprint, air conditioning and lighting. This and this year we have emitted over year, we emitted a total of 3.1 2 million tonnes of CO₂e resulting million tonnes of carbon dioxide from electricity use. Our scope equivalent (CO₂e), which is 18% 3 emissions include the indirect lower than our 2015 baseline emissions that occur as a result below 2015 baseline levels levels. In F19, our facilities emitted of our waste disposal. Green Factories leading the way in Bangladesh Energy efficiency Heating, Ventilation and Air‑Conditioning (HVAC) While the Group has not formally engaged its global Optimisation Strategy: We have supply chain on specific climate Woolworths Group committed to changed HVAC system settings change strategies, many of our reduce carbon emissions to 10% to be more energy efficient while strategic suppliers are proactive below 2015 levels by 2020. We maintaining store conditions and in addressing environmental and are significantly ahead, with a 18% customer comfort, with pleasing climate concerns. In Bangladesh, reduction reported this year. results. After the first phase of the five of our supplier's factories We are constantly investigating and project was completed, over 1,500 have achieved Gold Tier Green trialling new technology to help us changes to our HVAC systems were factory certification from the manage and reduce our emissions identified, which equates to potential United States Green Building towards our 1.5oC ambition, and energy savings of $1.3 million. Council (USGBC). There are deliver commercial benefits. Our Without the EMC these changes only 90 garment factories in energy efficiency projects have this would have gone unnoticed. Data Bangladesh total that have year delivered a 7% year‑on‑year gathered has been key in changing achieved Green Status. energy reduction. behaviours and increasing team knowledge on energy efficiency. There are a number of LED lighting: We have now rolled out indicators in the Green Factory LED lighting across more than 800 Solar: We continue to roll out solar certification, but generally these sites and are continuing this upgrade installations and have over 100 factories have lower energy across all our stores. stores and two DCs with solar panels consumption, use of renewable with a total capacity of 14MW. energy, consider water Energy Management Centre (EMC): The TESLA battery at Erskine Park efficiency, have enhanced safety All Australian supermarkets are now Liquor Distribution Centre entered features and, importantly, are connected to the EMC, which allows full operation in September 2018 structurally sound. A common for real‑time visibility of our energy and is paired with a 400kW solar feature of Green garment usage. We will continue to connect system. The site participated in six factories in Bangladesh are heat our other retail stores in a phased Peak Demand events – assisting the efficient windows that help approach. The initial 500 stores grid over Summer during the hot days reduce energy expenditure and originally connected to the EMC to of high demand. costs, and water management. date have achieved an average of 10% reduction in store energy consumption. 43 WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Certified Green Bond In April 2019, Woolworths Group under the CBI low‑carbon buildings to ASX‑listed, to invest further issued $400 million of Green Bonds criteria for supermarkets globally. in projects and assets that deliver and has become the first retailer in positive environmental and climate Woolworths Group’s Green Bonds Australia, and the first supermarket outcomes, while also contributing have been certified by the CBI and operator globally, to issue Green to the development of green finance a second party opinion has been Bonds certified by the Climate Bonds and Green Bond markets.” provided by Ernst & Young. Initiative (CBI). Sean Kidney, CEO and co‑founder Our Green Bonds are issued under of the CBI adds, a framework this is aligned to the Green Bond Principles published by the International Capital Market “We applaud Woolworths for taking further steps to improve its 1 PERFORMANCE Association and will: environmental footprint via the issuing Green Bond Framework • Support the financing of projects, of the first certified Green Bonds HIGHLIGHTS assets or expenditure that will by a supermarket operator globally. deliver positive environmental Purpose‑driven investors now have outcomes, for example a further opportunity to put their solar installations, or waste reduction initiatives money to work in mitigating long term environmental and carbon risks. Michael Shelley Group Energy Manager with the solar panels on our Erskine Park Distribution Centre 2 PEOPLE • Encourage other companies, As a result of Woolworths’ commitment by our example, to invest in in this space, we have developed projects and assets that will deliver a global low‑carbon buildings positive environmental outcomes criteria for supermarkets, applicable • Contribute to the development in multiple jurisdictions. We hope of the green bond market as we are the first issuer of green bonds Woolworths’ leadership will encourage other companies, from SME‑sized April 2019 For further information, please email grouptreasury@woolworths.com.au Woolworths Group Limited ABN 88 000 014 675 3 PLANET Carbon Intensity (tCO2 ‑e/square meters) Townsville floods 4 – Fairfield Central store PROSPERITY 0.74 0.76 0.70 0.69 0.62 We are continually considering We have also installed a flood the climate change resilience of protection system in the store. 5 our network and incorporating These removable aluminium flood features into our store design. barriers will flood‑proof the store In February 2019, our Fairfield to the height of 1 metre and can SUSTAINABILITY Central store was inundated be deployed by a single individual 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 with 600mm water during the in the event of a flood warning. METRICS Townsville floods. The store At an approximate cost of experienced an estimated loss <$100,000, the business benefit Energy Intensity of stock, fixtures, equipment, is clear in areas like Townsville (tCO2 ‑e/square meters) demolition plus rebuild at that are subject to repeated around $12 million. Thanks to extreme weather events. As well an extraordinary effort from our as the financial benefit, opening 2.9 2.8 2.7 2.7 team, the store was reopened in the shortest possible time after 2.5 after six weeks, instead of an event allows us to service the usual 16–24 weeks, which a community in need and helps minimised trade loss allowed our them to return to normality. team members to return to store and our customers to have access to grocery needs. 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 44 Eve – Australia's largest electric truck It has no engine, no gearbox, (grocery and produce deliveries servicing nor require regular repairs emits no fumes and can deliver from DCs to stores) in Melbourne’s and maintenance. The battery will up to 14 pallets of groceries to our metro area with Linfox drivers. last around 10 years based on charge supermarkets while hardly making Linfox is a key carrier supporting cycles. It takes six to eight hours a sound. Woolworths’ first fully Woolworths in this journey. to recharge the battery while the electric heavy vehicle made its debut truck is parked at the distribution It’s the first of its kind and currently on 1st August 2018. centre overnight. the largest in Australia. It has no Woolworths began trialling electric petrol tank and no vibrations or Woolworths will have a second vehicle technology last June in jolting from changing gears – the electric heavy vehicle making one of our online delivery trucks, only noise you hear are the tyres. deliveries to stores in Sydney and our latest refrigerated heavy from August 2019. Unlike a normal car or truck, the rigid electric vehicle is currently electric vehicle doesn’t need engine being used for secondary freight A greener built • Acoustic treatments and lighting to deliver a comfortable indoor environment experience for customers and teams • Use of engineered wood products, Woolworths' Heidelberg store timber laminates and responsibly in Victoria has been designed in sourced steel, concrete, PVX accordance with the requirements of a 5 Green Star Design and is now • 95% of all demolition of construction undergoing certification for an As‑Built waste on site was recycled v1.2 Rating from the Green Building • Access to fresh outdoor air as well Council of Australia, setting the as monitoring to maintain indoor benchmark for a standalone sustainable air quality supermarket development. • Electric vehicle charging bays, With 25% fewer greenhouse gas bike racks and end of trip facilities emissions than a regular Woolworths to encourage the use of low supermarket – equivalent to taking emissions transport. 147 cars off the road each year We are committed to obtaining a Green – Woolworths Heidelberg has Star Performance rating for currently incorporated a range of environmental owned retail centres and achieving features into many aspects of the a minimum 4 Star Green Star rating store’s renewal. These include: for future developments. 45 Refrigeration IMPACT: WOOLWORTHS GROUP management Commitment 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Sustainable Development Goal We continue to implement new technology and initiatives to reduce our reliance on certain refrigeration gases, which is a material contributor to our carbon footprint. 1 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS Refrigeration is crucial for ensuring our customers have access to the freshest and safest food. Operation Our Woolworths Prestons supermarket represents a technological milestone for our business as it is the first in 2 of our refrigeration systems is our fleet that combines the natural PEOPLE a material contributor to our overall refrigeration and HVAC systems carbon footprint and we continue into an integrated transcritical CO2 to work towards reducing our reliance platform. This virtually eliminates on certain synthetic refrigeration gases synthetic refrigerants from the store. with high global warming potentials. We have now rolled out 14 stores Our refrigerant technology is currently susceptible to leaking gases of high 2019 refrigerant leakage 3 PLANET with a transcritical CO2 system global warming potential, at a rate 11% and four stores with a water loop of around 11 per cent below 2015 levels. refrigeration system across Australia By reducing our leakage rate and and New Zealand. We continue to switching to alternative refrigerant roll out hybrid refrigeration when we technologies, we can reduce emissions perform store renewals and currently have over 300 stores with these updated systems. and the cost of recharging our systems. We will align our phase down of refrigerants in accordance with below 2015 levels 4 PROSPERITY Australian Government’s phase‑out schedule under the Montreal Protocol. 5 SUSTAINABILITY METRICS 46 Prosperity Founded on trusted relationships We continue to listen, learn and seek common ways to work better together in partnership with our suppliers, customers and communities. Developing and maintaining strong relationships enables us to build trust, loyalty and value and to maximise our positive impact. Own Brand Woolworths Own products undergone Brand products with a nutritional the health star rating renovation 70 100%  9% from F18  1.5% from F18 Cash donations Community Contribution of EBIT $14.8M 1.40%  198% from F18  0.16% from F18 Alam Jahangir and Peter Fisher from Humpty Doo Barramundi. 48 Working with our IMPACT: business partners Commitment 15 Sustainable Development Goal We know it is important to build strong long‑term relationships with our suppliers. We look to understand our suppliers through open communication and find opportunities to collaborate to deliver mutual benefits. Understanding our suppliers We work with the Advantage Group to allow our Woolworths Organic Growth Fund suppliers to talk freely and anonymously about our engagement and relationship with them. The Woolworths Organic Growth Fund has been The Advantage Group prepares a detailed report established in partnership with Heritage Bank to help based on these interviews on a yearly basis, along Australian farmers meet the growing consumer demand with a pulse survey which is undertaken more for organic fruit and vegetables. regularly, to provide Woolworths with feedback Woolworths has committed to invest up to $30 million and help us address supplier concerns. over a five‑year period in the form of financial grants In the 2019 Advantage Report, we are pleased and interest‑free loans. These grants and loans will help to report that Woolworths achieved the second Australian organic fruit and vegetable growers looking to highest ranking against 19 of its retailing peers. expand their operations and those keen to become part While we achieved the top quartile ranking of the burgeoning organic industry. Farmers will also have in how we engage fairly and equitably with our contracted purchase volumes, providing them with the suppliers as measured by independent supplier certainty of longer‑term supply of organic fruit and vegetables surveys in 2018 ahead of our 2020 commitment, to Woolworths. Australian Organic Farmers, Borderland, Woolworths achieved a second quartile ranking Green Camel, R&R Smith and Manna Farm are the successful in this category in 2019. recipients of the first round of loans and grants. Our BWS business continues to maintain second Anthony Bauer, Founder of Australian Organic Farmers position in the national VOS scoring rankings. in the Lockyer Valley, said: “With the support of the We acknowledge that there is still more work Woolworths Organic Growth Fund, we’re now able to install required for BWS and Dan Murphy's to continue a humidity‑controlled storage facility that will prolong the shelf to build our relationships with our suppliers. life of our sweet potatoes and onions and enable us to work around weather events such as storms and heat waves.” Compass app Woolworths’ suppliers can now download a newly‑developed mobile app allowing them to more closely monitor the sales performance of their products in each store. The app generates alerts if sales drop below expectations, allowing a supplier to quickly identify and address potential out‑of‑stock or merchandising issues impacting sales opportunities. Compass has the potential to help suppliers avoid lost sales while improving product range and availability for customers. 49 WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Supporting our dairy farmers Sustainable Supplier of the Year Woolworths customers have directly contributed – Humpty Doo Barramundi Woolworths Supermarkets’ annual Sustainable Supplier of the Year Award encourages 1 more than $18.8 million PERFORMANCE our suppliers to innovate and implement sustainability practices into their business. to more than 450 We’re proud to report that this year’s Award went to Humpty Doo Barramundi in the Australian dairy farmers HIGHLIGHTS Northern Territory for its Indigenous Employment Strategy (IES), which aims to develop through the purchase of and deliver increased opportunities for Indigenous people to be employed in its business. Woolworths fresh milk since September 2018. The key objectives of the IES are to develop and formalise effective partnerships with The support started with the limited edition Drought Relief Milk range which offered Indigenous organisations in the area to: • Increase the overall percentage of Indigenous employees 2 selected milk products • Maintain an Indigenous procurement policy that will deliver jobs and opportunities PEOPLE for an extra 10 cents per in the Indigenous business sector litre which went to dairy • Increase community engagement opportunities farmers in drought affected areas in NSW and Qld. The • Increase workplace training and learning opportunities 3 distribution of these funds was independently audited • Contribute to healthy local communities by KPMG and overseen • Maintaining a stable workforce is a common challenge for businesses operating PLANET by Woolworths' Drought in Northern Australia and employment opportunities can be limited. Relief Committee. The IES was launched in May 2018 and Indigenous employees now make up around Following this success, in 17% of Humpty Doo Barramundi’s team. The business is also working with Charles February 2019 we ceased Darwin University’s Aquaculture team to formally recognise the skills its staff have selling $1 per litre own‑brand gained through their employment with Humpty Doo Barramundi with a Certificate 4 fresh milk altogether. As IV in Aquaculture. This is a nationally‑recognised accreditation for people working a result, Woolworths' as aquaculturists in a supervisory or leadership capacity. Humpty Doo Barramundi’s standard retail price for 2L staff will obtain valuable skills and experience that can be applied in other aquaculture and 3L own‑brand varieties PROSPERITY businesses elsewhere in Australia, or around the world. was increased by 10c per litre and Woolworths Humpty Doo Barramundi also maintains professional ties with local registered trainer committed to distributing all Karen Sheldon’s ‘Accelerated Aboriginal Cooks of Excellence’ program, allowing Humpty money raised from the price Doo Barramundi not only to invest in skilling and employing Indigenous people in the increase to dairy farmers rapidly‑developing aquaculture industry, but also in related industries where their skills across Australia. and talents will be allowed to grow. 5 SUSTAINABILITY METRICS Meshak Retchford, Humpty Doo Barramundi. 50 Responsible IMPACT: sourcing Commitment 16 Sustainable Development Goal We believe all workers in our global supply chains Sustainable Development Goal have the right to be treated with dignity and respect. Our Responsible emphasis on Target 8.7 that promotes “effective measures to end forced labour, Principles and Rights at Work, the United Nations Universal Declaration of Sourcing Program modern slavery and human trafficking, Human Rights (UDHR) and the United as well as child labour in all its forms.” Nations Global Compact (UNGC). The Responsible Sourcing Program They also support our ability to work collaboratively with our partners and The policy defines our expectations is how we engage with our suppliers to for all direct suppliers of any goods promote the wellbeing of workers and proactively address human rights issues where they occur in alignment with the or services and is a requirement for integrity in our global supply chains. working with Woolworths and is United Nations Guiding Principles on We recognise this is material to Business and Human Rights (UNGPs). included in our Vendor Trading Terms. stakeholders, including our team, All new suppliers are required to sign customers, investors and communities. an Acknowledgment Form during their on‑boarding confirming their The adoption and improvement of Responsible commitment to the Policy. The Policy responsible sourcing practices involves working collaboratively with our Sourcing Policy is endorsed by our Chief Executive Officer and is reviewed annually suppliers to strengthen supply chains Our policy underpins our approach to ensure we remain responsive and improve working conditions, which to prioritising and responding to human to emerging risks. mitigates risks and builds trust with our rights and business integrity risks consumers and stakeholders. where they exist, and forms the basis These activities contribute to Sustainable of our program. It is informed by the Development Goal (SDG) 8 on Decent International Labour Organisation's Work and Economic Growth, with an (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Embedding our program in 2019 Program how our team operates highlights We understand the important role our team plays in operationalising 1,500 Suppliers briefed the Responsible Sourcing Program. Last year we held face‑to‑face Team members briefings with some 950 team members across different areas of our 950 trained business to help them understand the program requirements. Where Factory audits teams engage unique or higher risk suppliers, we conducted multiple 676 reviewed training sessions on different responsible sourcing topics (see, for Reviewed farm example, training with our produce team page 58). 93 audits In F20, we will launch a Responsible Purchasing Practices eLearning module for our teams that manage commercial and supplier relationships 55 Onsite visits and purchase orders. The purpose of the training is to support our teams in their understanding of purchasing behaviours in particular, the 67 Investigations potential impact on supply chain decision making that could result in Cases of zero non‑conformances with the Responsible Sourcing Standard. 4 tolerance identified 1 1 A zero tolerance results in immediate cease of trade pending an investigation. 51 WOOLWORTHS GROUP Responsible Sourcing SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Standards Embedding our program in how suppliers operate Our Responsible Sourcing Standards In 2019, our Responsible Sourcing efforts were primarily dedicated to (the Standards) further define our communicating and implementing our program with key suppliers. expectations for suppliers of goods We invested resources on supplier engagement and capacity building to help our or services that are own brand, partners understand and meet our expectations. This included roadshows to launch our exclusive or fresh. Responsible Sourcing Program to more than 1,500 suppliers across 10 locations in Asia, The Standards include 19 requirements relating to labour rights, fair and safe Australia and New Zealand. Based on the feedback from suppliers in Asia, 86% agreed the roadshow was relevant and helpful to their job and 90% said they would attend again next year. The feedback also provided insight into the types of materials and 1 PERFORMANCE working conditions, the environment topics suppliers are interested in – this includes case studies on meeting the Standards and video training, both of which have been considered in our program development. and business integrity, as well as HIGHLIGHTS guidance notes. The guidance notes Key to success of the roadshows was the joint participation of the commercial, articulate our position in three key quality and responsible sourcing teams across the Woolworths Group businesses. areas: remediating cases of child 2 “For me, the roadshows were a huge milestone. It was the first time we aligned as labour, characteristics of establishing commercial, quality and responsible sourcing teams to discuss what it holistically means an effective operational‑level grievance to be a supplier to a Woolworths Group business.” Nadene Smith, Head of Quality and mechanism and living wage. These Customer Care, BIG W. are not audited against but articulate Further roadshows are scheduled for H1F20. PEOPLE Woolworths Group's expectation and requirements. Direct suppliers are expected to cascade these standards to their suppliers to drive improvement in Mutual recognition to improve efficiency time and resources on improving working conditions. 3 responsible practices and mitigate PLANET Our moderate and priority suppliers social and environmental risk in have selected the following third our upstream supply chain. We Many of our suppliers already party scheme: recognise our suppliers may source participate in social compliance and produce materials in countries programs for other retailers and may with laws less stringent than our even have their own responsible own standards. When this occurs, suppliers are expected to uphold our sourcing practices embedded. To reduce the cost and audit burden 4 standards. We encourage honesty on suppliers, we now accept compliance PROSPERITY and transparency to help find practical information from seven different solutions rather than a zero‑tolerance third‑party schemes. These schemes approach that may inadvertently were selected based on their coverage, encourage non‑transparent practices governance, relevance to our supply 5 and hide risks. chain and alignment to our Standards. In the Standards, we commit to an The schemes are: n amfori BSCI 58.0% annual review to ensure we maintain SUSTAINABILITY • amfori BSCI n SEDEX 34.0% the right approach to meet the expectations of our communities and • Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit n ICTI IETP 3.0% METRICS customers. Our 2019 review includes (SMETA) further detail regarding our verification n SA8000 3.0% • SA8000 and audit framework, clarification n WRAP 2.0% on the role of our guidance notes, • International Councils of Toy and recognition of our extended Industries (ICTI) Ethical Toy Program n Global GAP GRASP 0.2% Supplier Speak Up program for • Worldwide Responsible Accredited management of grievances. Production (WRAP) This year we will deepen our • GLOBAL G.A.P. Risk Assessment on engagement with amfori BSCI and Social Practice (GRASP) Sedex to better leverage training and resources for our team and suppliers. • Fair Farms Initiative . We will also assess audit results across By helping to reduce the number the different schemes to identify trends of audits at the site‑level, our or issues that can be addressed across suppliers will be able to spend more industry rather than in isolation. 52 Using a risk‑based approach Responsible sourcing risk segmentation Our operations and supply chains are complex, diverse and extend into many This segmentation logic informs the implementation of our due countries and commodities. Our risk‑based diligence framework (below). The four risk segments determine approach enables us to focus on those parts what protocols are applicable to suppliers to evidence they operate of our supply chain where intervention is in compliance with the Standards. Additional due diligence is applied most required and where we can have the to suppliers where there is more risk and where Woolworths has biggest positive impact on human rights. greater leverage and influence. Woolworths expects our business partners to adhere to ethical business Segmented Own Brand Suppliers conduct consistent with our values. We recognise this may be a new requirement and may be challenging for some of our suppliers. Our program is designed to be collaborative and supportive. We engage n Minimum 724 suppliers throughout this process by offering a series of information sessions, n Moderate 274 guidance documents, training and capacity development opportunities. n Priority 420 The products we sell are sourced both n Specialised 423 locally and through a complex global supply chain extending to some 50 countries, including China, Bangladesh and Australia. Each of these products and countries presents a different set of human rights challenges. Woolworths uses Due Diligence Framework a risk‑based approach to define our program ALL MINIMUM MODERATE PRIORITY SPECIALISED requirements for suppliers and to ensure the appropriate level of due diligence is in place to best prevent and respond to these risks. 8. Annual This approach has been designed together Unannounced with ELEVATE, a risk and sustainability firm Site Visit1 based in Asia. 7. Implementing a Corrective Our methodology for risk assessment Action Plan is based on country risk using leading indicators, such as the World Bank 6. Sharing Audit Governance Indicators, the Global Slavery Report Index and the Transparency International 5. Mutual Recognition Corruption Perceptions Index. We then layer Audit Schemes additional leverage information based on a combination of the length of our business 4. Supplier relationship and historical purchase order Self‑Assessment data. The result of this process enables 3. Training and us to “segment” suppliers into four Education groups: priority, moderate, specialised and minimum. Generally: 2. Responsible Sourcing Standards • Minimum risk suppliers are manufactures from Australia, New Zealand and Europe 1. Responsible Sourcing Policy • Moderate risk captures suppliers in Asia outside of priority risk countries and 1 Selected based on risk assessment. some European countries • Priority risk suppliers are found in China, F20 risk review Bangladesh and Thailand In 2020, we will update our supplier segmentation analysis with • Specialised grapples with unique additional emphasis on forced labour and commodities, which risks to migrant workers in Australian will include some tier two suppliers. This will help us further horticulture. assess which geographies and supply chains are at higher risk Those suppliers in the priority and of forced labour and help us prioritise efforts ahead of our first specialised group are engaged with deeper disclosure under the Australian Modern Slavery Act. and more urgent training, investigation and remediation protocols. 53 F19 supplier on‑boarding Managing a zero‑tolerance or red‑rated site WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 This year, we received four red (zero tolerance) This past year, we focused on on‑boarding our direct suppliers cases from our new routine audit process. One of to our Responsible Sourcing Program. these was a general merchandise supplier with a site in Indonesia. The audit revealed non‑compliances, Across our priority and moderate suppliers, we received and among them zero tolerance issues related to lack of assessed 676 audits. Excluding nine new factories and two transparency of wage records. The local sourcing archived sites that are yet to be audited, this represents: agent agreed to work with the site to address • 409/410 or 99.8% of priority sites agreed corrective actions. However, while the site addressed findings related to health and safety, • 267/273 or 97.8% of moderate sites they continued to deny access to payroll records. A member of our Responsible Sourcing team has visited the As a result we did not commence production at this 1 remaining priority factory and the site and will undergo a full audit site and the sourcing agent found a new location in H1F20. The six remaining moderate sites have audits scheduled. to produce the goods that met both our quality and responsible sourcing standards. PERFORMANCE 656 or 90.61% minimum risk suppliers completed their self assessment questionnaire. FoodCo achieved a completion rate HIGHLIGHTS of 98.41%. The results of this analysis will inform our minimum risk supplier engagement this year. 333 or 79% of specialised suppliers, representing 97% of Driving improvement purchases, have selected their mutual recognition scheme (see page 59 for more information on what this means for our fresh through site visits in China 2 produce suppliers). As a retailer sourcing a range of products PEOPLE We aim to integrate 100% of our direct suppliers into our from China including apparel, homewares Responsible Sourcing Program by the first half of 2020. and seasonal goods, we are actively What that means working to improve our oversight of supply chain risks in China. Due to the high level Once our team receives an audit from one of the mutually recognised schemes, we then grade this against the Responsible of country and product risk, factories in China are subject to the full scope of our 3 Sourcing Standards. There are four possible grading outcomes: PLANET responsible sourcing due diligence. Those zero‑tolerance (red), critical (purple), moderate (amber) and minor that are priority risk are further in scope (green). A zero‑tolerance results in immediate cease of trade of site visits. During the reporting period, pending an investigation, while those with a critical outcome are we conducted 26 site visits in China, of conditionally approved to trade with agreed corrective actions. which 23 of these factories were recorded 4 as requiring significant improvement. What the data tells us Visits were a combination of announced, Of the 676 audits graded this year for moderate and priority for new sites, and semi‑ and un‑announced PROSPERITY suppliers, we had the following outcomes: visits for existing Priority suppliers. • Red = 1% We identified monthly overtime exceeding the requirement of China Labour Law, and • Purple = 32% situations where workers were frequently not covered by social insurance. Some 5 • Amber = 61% workers were found not wearing protective • Green = 6% equipment, and there were instances of SUSTAINABILITY unsafe chemical storage. We recognised that many suppliers need support to achieve the expected standards, and ceasing support can have negative While these practices fall short of our METRICS consequences on the suppliers' workers. In our Responsible Standards, we have worked with suppliers Sourcing Policy we commit to working with suppliers to improve to remedy these issues. Suppliers responded their standards, and so we try not to cease supply with those with a positively to our input and agreed to conduct red or purple rating, but to put structured compliance programs in corrective actions. By June 2019, 21 of the place to secure improvement. 23 factories had closed their corrective actions. Based on our learnings, we have In F20, we will continue to work with those suppliers graded “red” developed standard remediation protocols and “purple” to close non‑conformances and maintain compliance for situations of overtime hours, social to the Standards. insurance and worker health and safety. In F20, these will guide both our internal teams and suppliers on what to do when these non‑conformances arise. They will also form the basis of our training at our annual supplier roadshows. 54 Improving our internal three directors and an independent Chair to review the effectiveness of In 2020, we will continue to review our procedures and engage internal governance program our Responsible Sourcing Program stakeholders to embed and improve and the company’s human rights due responsible sourcing traction within This year, we took a critical look at diligence. The group meets at least the Woolworths Group of businesses. the governance of our Responsible four times a year and are provided Sourcing program. As a result, we quarterly progress reports. made improvements to help embed it • SteerCo: Steer Co is our Executive Strengthening grievance within our operations through improved Steering Committee that provides mechanisms procedures and Board oversight that strategic direction of the Responsible strengthens our accountability. Sourcing program and approves This year we made progress on our policies and commitments. It includes commitment to improve our grievance Embedding the Responsible Sourcing representatives for each business mechanism and develop tools for Program within our business extends divisions who are accountable for suppliers to support the development beyond supplier engagement. It involves Responsible Sourcing Program of effective site‑level processes. making sure we have defined roles and responsibilities and procedures to govern implementation. Based on the review In February, we re‑launched Speak our program at every level of our new members will join SteerCo Up across the Group. Supplier Speak business from buying teams to the Board. for F20: our General Manager for Up, governed by the Supplier Speak FoodCo, the General Counsel for Up Policy, is an independent and This year we embedded responsible Woolworths Supermarkets and confidential platform available to sourcing obligations into our Operational the General Manager for Group suppliers and workers in our global Compliance Plans (OCPs) for Procurement. SteerCo meets every supply chain. The expanded service can Woolworths Supermarkets, FoodCo & month and relevant outcomes be accessed from our major sourcing Metro, Big W and Culture and People, are communicated to the Board countries, accommodates all commonly to enable oversight of the controls and via SusCo. spoken languages, and can be accessed monitoring in place to manage these online or by phone. • Working Group: The Responsible obligations. Further, we completed Sourcing Working Group is In F20, we will disseminate the Speak a third‑party review of our defined comprised of individuals from each Up Policy and web‑intake form in processes that identified how we can business division with day‑to‑day languages of key sourcing countries. improve our internal ways of working responsibility for managing the We will continue to work with suppliers to better manage the program. Responsible Sourcing program based to cascade information posters and This review led to enhancements on defined policies and procedures. information cards to help make workers to our Responsible Sourcing This group meets monthly or more aware of the Speak Up channel. At governance based on varying levels often if necessary on specific work the end of F20 we will review the of responsibility and implementation: items. The group maintains regular effectiveness of this service using the • SusCo: SusCo is the Board day‑to‑day contact on the roll‑out effective grievance mechanism criteria Sustainability Committee. It comprises and status of our program. outlined by the UNGPs. Investigating grievances raised by workers This year, we conducted 67 investigations regarding underpaid. One sub‑contractor was referred to the FWO. non‑compliance in our supply chain. This brings the total repayments in Australia by labour contractors over the past 18 months to AUD$225,000. In This year we launched and tested our internal processes China, we secured the repayment of US$24,695 in wages for managing worker grievances in our global supply for 55 workers by their employers (see more on page 55). chain. Grievances have been raised via a number of channels including Supplier Speak Up, information shared Our approach in this area has been informed by the directly with our team, worker representatives, the Fair work of our Group facilities team that has developed an Work Ombudsman (FWO) and civil society organisations. effective grievance process in our cleaning and trolley Every claim is reviewed based on the level of information collection supply chain. In response, one worker shared received to determine if further investigation is required. this feedback: Based on the findings of the investigation, we work with I get this opportunity to thank the entire Woolworths Speak our suppliers to make sure grievances are remedied in Up team for their kindness and commitment for this matter. alignment with our Standards. This may mean working As an international student, I (sic) definitely thankful for with our direct suppliers to provide remedy at the second Woolworths for establishing independent and progressive tier or to workers via labour providers. institute such as Speak Up. When I talked this matter, I felt Of the 67 investigations, 52 cases have been closed. that I am not alone to face this issue. Seeking justice is an In Australia, we facilitated AUD$198,720 in repayments expectation of every human being and I was able to see justice by labour contractors to 35 workers that had been because the Speak Up team.” Anonymous Reporter 55 Strengthening WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Investigating claims from a whistleblower supplier capacity to improve In July 2018, a whistleblower identified unauthorised subcontracting with a Woolworths general merchandise supplier based in China. Aligned with our grievance process, site‑level grievance we initiated an investigations decision group, comprised of representatives from legal, quality, commercial and responsible sourcing teams. The investigation was mechanisms conducted across suppliers of the product within the region to determine if there were any deviations from the Standards. Various aspects were examined including factory Grievance mechanisms are only safety, age and treatment of workers, and proper payment of wages. effective in serving their purpose The initial investigation identified a number of issues, including validating the claim if they are trusted by workers. of unauthorised subcontracting and uncovering the underpayment of overtime wages. Working with Woolworths and ELEVATE, suppliers engaged with the relevant subcontractors regarding the payment of workers, confirmed the appropriate This year we developed resources and tools to improve supplier awareness and understanding 1 payment standards and secured repayments for affected individuals. PERFORMANCE of what makes a grievance Three suppliers recognised they needed to improve their processes to better mechanism effective. We also HIGHLIGHTS align with the Standards, and agree to a year‑long factory development plan. determined a set of concrete Key milestones to date include: actions for implementation: • Improved time keeping systems resulting in accurate and complete time records 2 • We require all our moderate • Implementation of electronic time tracking systems to record worker’s hours and priority suppliers and pay to complete a Grievance PEOPLE • Improved worker induction processes, including a process for age verification Mechanism Effectiveness during hiring, to manage risks of child labour and juvenile workers. eLearning module in H1F20. We recognise these suppliers Beyond continuous improvement for suppliers, we also looked internally at how our purchasing practices and processes may have contributed to this situation. have higher risks, which is The analysis found: why it is critical workers have • Our sourcing team had limited visibility over factory capacity; and access to effective grievance to raise their concerns for review without fear of retaliation to 3 • We did not have a clearly defined process for managing subcontracting risks. Based on these findings we have worked hard to improve our systems and mitigate make workplaces safer and PLANET more engaging for all workers. future exposure. In June 2019, our general merchandise team launched a new product development process that includes factory capacity assessments as part of their • Since the module was shared supplier desktop review and subcontracting information on product specification briefs with suppliers in June 2019, 4 Our new process for subcontracting has also been adopted across the Group. In H1F20, 18% of all mandatory suppliers we will focus on training our team and suppliers on our requirements. We will continue completed the module. Our learn from our experiences, using data and program insights to drive improvements. operations team will engage PROSPERITY with remaining suppliers directly to ensure all required suppliers complete the module by the of 2019. 5 More than half of the participants who completed the module to date also provided feedback. SUSTAINABILITY This feedback helps us evaluate the effectiveness of the training METRICS and improve future capacity building efforts. We will continue Speak Up is a service operated by an independent to monitor the effectiveness of third party that gives team members, suppliers our efforts through onsite visits and their workers the opportunity to report issues following supplier and worker surveys at select sites. Further confidentially and anonymously. insight on the outcomes of these engagements will be reported in 2020. Australia: 1800 772 173 woolworthsspeakup.ethicspoint.com 56 Retail roundtables in Australia: driving collaboration on the Australian Modern Slavery Act and responsible recruitment As Australia's leading food retailer, we are taking tangible action to eliminate modern slavery in Australia’s horticulture supply chain. The roundtables support our collective engagement to address this issue by: • Building a common industry‑wide understanding of responsible recruitment principles and practices as well as the issues and their impacts on different stakeholder groups • Identifying the challenges to implement these Working in partnership Retail Roundtables principles and share Social and labour conditions, including examples of how others Human rights and responsible sourcing working hours, wages, benefits and are overcoming them challenges do not occur in isolation. general well‑being of workers in in different regions and They are embedded in complex supply chains, continue to pose an parts of the Australian socio‑economic systems of migration, ongoing challenge for retailers locally supply chain gender, under‑employment, weak rule and globally. Solutions to these issues • Exploring how retailers of law and low wages. require system‑wide collaboration and and brands can encourage Where possible, we seek to work in cannot be solved by one actor alone. suppliers and labour hire multi‑stakeholder partnerships that both We believe there is tremendous value companies to adopt better scale impact and promote a coordinated for shared learning and collaboration. practices in alignment approach to tackling complex To support this objective Woolworths with national and systemic issues. Group initiated a set of Retail international and reduce This year, we achieved this through the Roundtables with our peers and partners modern slavery risks. continuation of our Retail Roundtables, in Australia and Asia. The roundtables Convening stakeholders on becoming a founding retailer of the were initiated in 2018 to promote this topic allows us to leverage Cleaning Accountability Framework stakeholder dialogue on responsible our collective influence and and Fair Farms Initiative in Australia, sourcing challenges facing our industry. scale to improve conditions and participation in amfori’s Shobola To date these roundtables have brought for temporary foreign labour. women’s empowerment project together more than 30 retail peers, This starts with building in Bangladesh. business associations, NGOs and awareness amongst suppliers We further participated in briefing third‑party organisations. and other stakeholders. sessions by NGOs and academics, Two roundtables took place in Australia, We are committed to holding were active members of the UN Global with a focus on temporary labour in the additional roundtables on Compact Network Australia’s Modern Australian horticulture supply chain. this topic to further drive Slavery Community of Practice, and The third roundtable was hosted in Hong awareness and collaboration joined government consultations on Kong with a focus on transparency, wages across sectors. the Australian Modern Slavery Act. and working hours in Asian supply chains. 57 WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Shobola: Empowering women Cleaning in our Bangladesh supply chain Accountability Framework This year, BIG W was selected by amfori BSCI and the CSR • Have an indirect impact to 2,500+ women workers through Cleaning Accountability Framework (CAF) is 1 Centre Bangladesh to participate a buddy system; and PERFORMANCE a multi‑stakeholder initiative in a women’s empowerment • Create gender‑based awareness seeking to improve labour program, Shobola. Shobola, HIGHLIGHTS in 6,500 households. standards and cleaning quality meaning independent and across Australia. It promotes empowered woman in Bengali, The first phase of the project cleaners’ rights, transparent is a two‑year project designed for from January – June 2019 female workers in Bangladesh’s ready‑made garment (RMG) included the factory selection and a baseline assessment at and accountable cleaning supply chains, sustainable business models for the sector 2 PEOPLE sector to consider pathways each site. Key findings from the and responsible contracting into supervisory positions. baseline assessment highlight practices. CAF does this by A BIG W supplier was one of barriers to leadership for female way of the CAF Certification six RMG factories selected for workers including: Scheme, which recognises the pilot program, which has • A lack of confidence, often and rewards ethical practices 3 coverage at sites both in Dhaka driven by a limited education in the cleaning industry and and Chittagong. or leadership experience; and uniquely places cleaners at In Bangladesh, women are key the heart of the certification PLANET • Concerns around managing to the growth of the economy as process. CAF has been, and supervisory work and the government seeks to expand continues to be, developed by family commitments. the apparel industry. While the a multitude of industry actors, ratio of women in the industry is Informed by these findings in F20, meaning this is a scheme that high, they disproportionately hold the project will both development is fit for purpose to drive higher operator positions in factories, with low representation in supervisor and deliver training with a focus on: standards across the board. CAF works with independent 4 • Awareness raising on PROSPERITY or management roles. The auditors, the cleaners' union gender‑equality and Shobola Project seeks to address United Voice, and cleaners sexual‑harassment in the structural barriers to women themselves, to verify that the workplace in leadership positions by: the ‘CAF Standards’ – as • Communication skills for they relate to matters such • Sensitising top – and mid‑level 5 management and workers as wages and conditions, tax management to gender equality and gender‑based • Leadership training and super and responsible harassment; and contracting – are being met SUSTAINABILITY • Financial management at an individual building. CAF • Empowering female workers has so far developed a ‘3 Star Training will be rolled out in from METRICS through leadership and capacity Standard’ of certification, and building training. October 2019 to February 2020. By July 2020 the CSR Centre will is currently developing 4 and The program is expected to benefit use insights from the training 5 Star Standards. both individuals and factories, and to develop a handbook Woolworths will invest in turn demonstrating a more on social dialogue and rollout $100,000 to assist CAF to gender‑inclusive operating model in factories. Social dialogue is develop a retail store‑specific for the ready‑made garment a process of consultation or certification scheme over the industry. The programs aims to: negotiation between different next 12 months and will be social actors, for example workers working closely with CAF to • Train at least 80 and employers, usually to reach build effective preventive and supervisors and 800 female agreement on common goals detective control mechanisms factory workers; or activities. to drive higher standards in our industry as a whole. 58 Launching responsible sourcing in our Australian horticultural supply chain This past year we have made significant • Training and awareness raising Our entire Produce team has attended progress towards embedding among our produce team members two formal briefing sessions, the responsible sourcing in our fresh and direct suppliers first at the launch of the Responsible produce supply chain. Knowing the • Operationalising our framework for Sourcing Program and the second at the unique vulnerabilities faced by migrant managing responsible sourcing risk launch of the Requirements for Labour workers in Australian horticulture, in horticulture Providers. At the first session, we Woolworths Group has devised were joined by worker advocate Moe • Launching our Requirements for Labour a specialised program to address and Turaga to share his past experience of Providers in our Australian Horticultural mitigate risk across this supply chain. working in a situation of bondage on an Supply Chain Australian farm. For the second session, As recent key reports from the Fair • Multi‑stakeholder engagement. global ethical recruitment expert Marie Work Ombudsman (FWO) 1 and Apostle from the Fair Hiring Initiative, academia 2 indicate, worker rights trained our team on the complexity of challenges in Australian horticulture are multifaceted and solutions require Training and labour hire for migrant workers and indicators of forced labour in labour a genuine multi stakeholder response. awareness raising hire arrangements. Key to Woolworths’ approach in horticulture is working in strategic Unlike other global markets that we In October 2018, we delivered partnerships across industry, operate in, management systems for our Program launch to 130 direct government and civil society to drive social compliance are relatively new product suppliers at events in Sydney, outcomes that deliver sustainable to our horticulture supplier base. For Melbourne and Brisbane. This was change across the sector. We believe this reason, it was important for us to followed by a training session with 46 that raising the bar on good practice spend time briefing our Produce team of our largest suppliers in March 2019 across the industry will have a positive members and suppliers on different on labour hire and ethical recruitment, impact on our direct suppliers and elements of our Responsible Sourcing and an update in June 2019 to 82 their growers. Program. Importantly, both our written suppliers at our Hort Connections communications and face‑to‑face briefing. Suppliers also receive program In the first year of the program, we briefings are co‑delivered by our updates via Woolworths Supermarkets’ focused our efforts in four main areas: Responsible Sourcing team and the business updates and the bi‑monthly commercial Head of Produce. supplier quality newsletter. Program rollout in horticulture July 2018 August 2018 September 2018 October 2018 November 2018 December 2018 • Responsible • Support of • Quarterly • 130 suppliers • FWO releases its final report on the • Quarterly meeting Sourcing the Australian meeting with across the Harvest Trail Inquiry with the NUW Program Modern Slavery the NUW country attend • Woolworths Group accepts position on Launch Act at Senate RS Produce FWO Horticulture Reference Group Inquiry Roadshows • Presented with supplier, Perfection Fresh, • Participated • Research brief at the UN Global Compact Network in the Fair by the Australian Australia’s (GCNA) National Dialogue on Farms Retailer Human Rights Business and Human Rights Workshop Institute and UTS • Achieved a score of 40.7 in the 2018 CHRB, an increase of 15.7 on the previous year 1 FWO, Harvest Trail Inquiry Report, 2018, available: www.fairwork.gov.au/how‑we‑will‑help/helping‑the‑community/campaigns/national‑campaigns/harvest‑trail‑inquiry 59 Our framework for low risk, 44 were grade amber or medium • Management systems to verify rights WOOLWORTHS GROUP risk and 17 were graded purple or high to work SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 managing Responsible risk. There were no ‘red’ or zero tolerance • Worker facilities (including any cases identified. Collectively, 165 of onsite accommodation) Sourcing risk findings have been addressed and we are • Operational level working to close the remaining 13 issues. in horticulture The majority (45%) of non‑compliances grievance mechanism. related to health and safety, followed This year we piloted our site visits Our approach to managing risk in our methodology. To test our process by age verification process and wages horticulture supply chain aligns to our and assumptions, we piloted across and benefits. Responsible Sourcing framework; we a number of product categories (berries, mutually recognise three third party For those suppliers that are yet to bananas and brassica), higher risk schemes to demonstrate compliance complete an audit, Woolworths has regions (Queensland, Victoria and to our Standards. These are Sedex, Fair taken a risk based approach to prioritise Western Australia), and operation audit requests. We consider four 1 Farms and GlobalGAP G.R.A.S.P. types (packing warehouse, farms key factors: Given the maturity of the different only, joint farms and packing sheds) schemes and our suppliers’ varying • Commodity using a combination of approaches PERFORMANCE progress towards social compliance, our • Geography (including hotspot regions, (announced, semi‑announced and process for on‑boarding direct suppliers regulatory oversight) unannounced) and teams (Woolworths HIGHLIGHTS to the program occurred in three phases: • Seasonality and a third party). • Suppliers select their mutual • Suspected or known red flag sites 27 site visits were conducted in total by recognition scheme raised via third parties. Woolworths' Responsible Sourcing team • Suppliers share any existing social compliance data Higher risk commodities are largely defined by the nature of the harvest (20) and Verite (7), a global not‑for‑profit specialising in identifying and remedying labour rights violations in supply chains. 2 • Woolworths reviews existing audits PEOPLE and include: Findings varied across production and grades the outcome against • Berries type and location. Non‑conformances our Standards. • Tomatoes included miscalculation of piece‑rates, This year, our efforts focused on limited record keeping and limited on‑boarding those suppliers that selected • Mixed vegetables/brassica oversight of labour providers. Visits Sedex as their preferred scheme. As Fair • Grapes 3 conducted by Verite included a payroll Farms only formally launched in June • Cucumber review of labour providers. Though there 2019, suppliers that have selected this • Stone Fruit. were no forced labour issues found, few as their preferred scheme will undergo PLANET suppliers had specific controls in place a similar onboarding process in the first Our risk‑prioritisation further drives our to identify both indicators and actual half of F20. program of site visits, that compliment incidents of forced labour. our full social compliance audits. These To date 79% of produce suppliers have may be announced or unannounced. The The site visits methodology also selected their scheme representing purpose of unannounced site visits is to included conversations with growers 97% of total purchases. Of these 263 4 understand the site operations “as is” on to better understand their challenges in (60%) suppliers have selected Sedex, 62 any given day. Visits may be conducted meeting the Standards. This deepened suppliers (15%) have selected Fair Farms by Woolworths or a Woolworths’ engagement will continue to inform and eight suppliers (2%) have opted for PROSPERITY approved third party and focus on key our strategy. GlobalGAP. G.R.A.S.P. We are working responsible sourcing indicators: In Q1 F20, we will finalise our to onboard all produce suppliers by the • Management systems for labour methodology for site visits based end of October 2019. hire providers on the learnings from the pilots, and Of the produce suppliers that selected fully embed site visits as part of our Sedex, we have reviewed and graded 93 • Wages, benefits and working hours 5 framework for managing Responsible reports. Of these 32 were graded green or • Worker induction and training Sourcing risk in horticulture. February 2019 March 2019 April 2019 May 2019 June 2019 SUSTAINABILITY • Launched • First meeting of the FWO Horticulture • NUW working • Signed • Quarterly meeting with the NUW METRICS Requirements for Reference Group Meeting briefing sessions Collaboration • Disseminated supplier guidance Labour Providers • Roundtable on Responsible Recruitment and meeting in Protocol with on developing site level grievance • Briefed key with 14 participants across industry, retail Robinvale the NUW mechanisms industry and civil society • Met with the • Conducted site • Attended Fair Farms shadow audit stakeholders on • Training of certification bodies on best Victorian Labour visits across the Requirements practice social compliance auditing Hire Authority strawberry and • 87 suppliers attended Woolworths banana suppliers Group Supplier update at Hort • Re‑launched • 81 Produce team members briefed on • Released our Connections Supplier Statement of in QLD Requirements for Labour Providers Speak Up Principles • Second meeting of FWO Horticulture • 46 Suppliers attended brief on Reference Group • Conducted 6 site Requirements for Labour Providers • Briefed the PMA investigations on the Modern • Fair Farms Program launch • Participated in Fair Farms Retailer Workshop Slavery Act • Co‑hosted a panel on Responsible Recruitment with the GCNA 2 See e.g Joanna Howe et al., Towards a Durable Future: Tackling Labour Challenges in the Australian Horticulture Industry, 2019; Marie Seagrave, Exploited and illegal: Unlawful migrant workers in Australia, 2018; Laurie Berg and Bassina Farbenblum, Wage Theft in Australia: Findings of the National Temporary Migrant Work Survey, 2017; and the Report of the Migrant Workers Taskforce, 2019. 60 Requirements for Multi‑stakeholder Fair Farms Initiative labour providers in our engagement For the past 18 months, Woolworths has been part of the retail consultation on the Australian horticultural development of the Fair Farms Training We recognise strategic industry, & Certification Program, an industry‑led supply chain government, union and supplier initiative to promote workplace collaborations are critical to addressing compliance and end exploitation in A key risk area for the horticulture shared and pervasive challenges in our Australian horticulture. We have worked industry is the inherent vulnerabilities fresh produce supply chain. with Fair Farms to ensure the Standard of migrant workers that enter the supply This year we have partnered with underlying the program meets our key chain via third party labour providers. Fair Farms and joined the FWO's Responsible Sourcing requirements and The FWO Harvest Trail Inquiry report Horticulture Reference Group. We have addresses priority risk areas specific to found up to two‑thirds of growers rely also deepened our engagement with horticulture. Following its launch in June on labour hire contractors to some the National Union of Workers (NUW). 2019, our suppliers can now register extent and, where these arrangements Beyond these strategic partnerships, we with Fair Farms to commence their path were used illegally, this had a negative continue to engage across industry with: to certification. We will continue to impact on workers. 1 • The Horticulture Committee of the engage with Fair Farms, assuming a role National Farmers Federation; on the Fair Farms Stakeholder Reference In February 2019, we released an Group in F20. Our priority areas include Addendum to our Responsible Sourcing • State based horticulture and farming worker voice and grievance mechanisms Standards, Requirements for Labour associations; and within the scheme, and process for Providers in our Australian Horticulture • Industry groups such as AusVeg, investigations when issues are raised. Supply Chain (Requirements). The the Produce Marketing Association. Requirements make clear that any (PMA), Berries Australia and the suppliers that engage a third party Australian Fresh Produce Alliance. labour provider must have the right “We value Woolworth’s support checks and balances in place to ensure Our engagement framework is and endorsement of Fair Farms as they are dealing with a legitimate entity captured in our Statement of Principles a way for their produce suppliers to and that workers rights are respected. to promote fair working conditions and the protection of labour rights in demonstrate workplace compliance.” Our approach to responsible recruitment Woolworths’ Australian horticultural THOMAS HERTEL, is aligned with industry standards and supply chain. 3 FAIR FARMS PROGRAM MANAGER underpinned by three core principles known as the Priority Industry Principles: • Every worker should have freedom of movement; • No worker should pay for a job; and • No worker should be indebted or coerced to work. 2 To be compliant with the Requirements, suppliers must ensure labour providers used in their supply chain meet one of the following three criteria: 1. The labour hire provider is legally registered under relevant State or any future Federal legislation related to labour hire registration (this is mandatory where legislation applies) 2. The labour hire provider is an Approved Employer on the Australian Government’s Seasonal Worker Programme 3. The labour hire provider is certified via a third party scheme approved by Woolworths, currently StaffSure. We are currently in the transition phase of the Requirements. Aligned with the timing of the Victorian Labour Hire licensing regulations, the Woolworths Head of Produce, Paul Turner and Responsible Requirements will be fully operational Sourcing Manager, Laura McManus join Thomas Hertel, Fair from 30 October 2019. Farms Program Manager at the launch in June 2019. 1 Ibid 1. Page 58. 2 The Priority Industry Principles are an initiative of the Consumer Goods Forum. You can read more about Principles here: www.theconsumergoodsforum.com/initiatives/social‑sustainability/key‑projects/priority‑industry‑principles 61 FWO Horticultural Reference Group Our team distributed Woolworths’ • Re‑communicated our Responsible WOOLWORTHS GROUP Supplier Speak Up cards, but have not Sourcing Standards to suppliers in SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 In November 2018, the FWO released had any direct reports from our supply the region its final report on the Harvest Trail chain in this region. Inquiry. The Inquiry identified five • Conduct unannounced site visits key findings relating to workplace After the visit, we formulated next steps in region arrangements along the Harvest Trail, based on the remediation guidance • Engaged relevant authorities all of which have been considered from the UN Guiding Principles on including the Victorian Labour by Woolworths' as part of our Business and Human Rights (UNGPs). Hire Authority and Department evidence‑based program development. Using the UNGPs, we identified that of Home Affairs. The report’s recommendations included Woolworths was directly linked to the the formation of a multi‑stakeholder risks faced by workers in Robinvale. For Ahead of the next harvest season, Harvest Trail Stakeholder Reference businesses that are directly linked to we will work closely with our suppliers 1 Group. Woolworths is a member a potential rights violation, the UNGPs to review their responsible sourcing of the Group alongside retail peers, suggest that companies consider their management systems. During peak suppliers, worker representatives, leverage to influence key stakeholders season we will conduct visits in PERFORMANCE industry groups and certification to facilitate a positive outcome for the region. schemes. The Group convened twice workers. We immediately implemented HIGHLIGHTS in F19 and acts as an advisory board the following steps: to the FWO working group to inform the design and implementation of initiatives and interventions to address non‑compliance on the Harvest Trail. 2 Our horticultural supply chain PEOPLE National Union of Workers This year, Woolworths continued our Woolworths sources 96% of our fresh fruit and vegetables in Australia engagement with the NUW through from some 423 direct suppliers. More than half of our direct suppliers are quarterly meetings and in attending from two states – Queensland and Victoria – followed by New South Wales, 3 a worker briefing session. We further Western Australia, South Australia, Tasmania and the Northern Territory. cemented our commitment to ongoing This is what we call tier one, or direct, suppliers. dialogue with the Union through the Our tier two supply chain are those growers that supply into our direct PLANET signing of a Collaboration Protocol suppliers. Of our 14 largest direct suppliers, collectively the Australian Fresh in May 2019. Under the protocol, Produce Alliance, there are an estimated 1,500 tier two growers. This is just Woolworths and the NUW agree a small section of our second tier supply chain. We will continue to map to quarterly meetings to monitor our second tier to have greater transparency of the indirect growers that the progress of the Requirements contribute to our fresh produce supply chain. 4 for Labour Providers in driving improved labour hire standards in our horticultural supply chain. It will also PROSPERITY provide the NUW with a direct avenue to raise any worker feedback. In April, Woolworths was one of five external stakeholders that attended 5 a worker information session organised by the NUW in Robinvale, Victoria. More than 200 workers from different SUSTAINABILITY nationalities working across Sunraysia (Robinvale, Mildura and Swan Hill METRICS regions) attended the session to discuss workplace rights. Woolworths engaged with a number of migrant workers in feedback sessions. Key learnings included: • Understanding the complexity of labour hire subcontracting arrangements • Misuse of piece‑rate payments • Fees for accommodation and transport • Legal complexities of the right to work. 3 www.woolworthsgroup.com.au/content/Document/Woolworths%20Group%20Statement%20of%20Principles_FINAL.pdf 62 Making an impact IMPACT: Commitment 17 We remain dedicated to the communities we are part of, and commit to donating at least 1% of our pre‑tax Sustainable profits on a three‑year rolling average every year. Our Development Goal direct community investment consists of cash, in‑kind or our expertise and time to various causes. With our large footprint across Australia and New Zealand, we are also able to provide opportunities to raise awareness of community programs and provide channels for our customers and team members to support these causes. Direct community investments: Australian Red Cross Good360 Cash donations One in three Australians will need Since we partnered with a blood donation at some point in their Good360 in 2017, and with $14.8M lives. BIG W has partnered with the Australian Red Cross as part of the RED 25 program to secure 25% of the the amazing work of our store teams, we have donated over 4.5K items, helped required number of blood donations in 510 charities and positively In Kind Australia annually. To date, the BIG W impacted over 900K team has saved over 4,000 lives with Aussies families. $18.5M blood donations, and has set a goal to save as many lives as there are team members in the business. Team Free Books For Kids member time BIG W’s Free Books For Kids is $11M about giving families access to Woolworths Earn & Learn more books at home. Reading This year 15,000 schools and early is the first step to building learning centres across Australia healthy minds for Australia’s participated in the Earn & Learn children. During February Direct community investment totalling program, including for the first time – May 2019, parents, carers 120 remote schools. Through this and teachers across Australia $44.3M program, we are funding the provision of educational resources. collected more than 3.7 million books, making story time special for tens of thousands of Australian children. Leveraged fundraising Royal Children’s Hospital $18.1M For 32 years our Victorian Supermarkets Royal Flying Doctors have supported the Royal Children's Hospital in Melbourne. Each year With two statewide appeals Our community contribution these stores collectively raise well over this year, one in October as % of EBIT on a rolling a million dollars and then 200+ of our and another in May, our average basis team volunteer to run the ever popular Queensland stores raised over 1.40% Woolworths Fresh Food Hall at the Kid’s $530,000 for the Royal Flying Day Out spectacular in the Melbourne Doctor Service in Queensland. Convention and Exhibition Centre on All funds raised will help keep Good Friday. this iconic and life‑saving community service in the air. 63 WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Lifeline White Ribbon Food Rescue Partners With a focus on mental health, Endeavour Drinks have been Contestable Fund Woolworths Group is proud proud partners with White Ribbon The Countdown Food Rescue to be one of the sponsors of Australia since 2013 and remain Partners Contestable Fund, Lifeline. Lifeline is a national committed to ending men’s established in 2016, has been charity providing all Australians violence against women. This year, designed to help grow the capacity experiencing a personal crisis we have raised over $150,000 1 and capability of our food rescue with access to 24 hour crisis to help provide education, partners. This year, Countdown support and suicide prevention awareness‑raising campaigns has donated over $160,000 PERFORMANCE services. Lifeline receives over and preventative programs. to 12 food rescue charities to help a million contacts each year from expand their operations including HIGHLIGHTS helpseekers. The support services buying new vehicles to transport and resources are provided products and building a new through phone, face‑to‑face kitchen to prepare food for those 2 and online channels. If you need in need. support, please call 13 11 14. PEOPLE Being a part of so many communities across Australia and New Zealand, we have a Drought relief support responsibility to give back and to support those 3 Together with our customers, in need. I am proud of our team and the positive Woolworths Group raised over $7.8 million dollars for Rural Aid’s impact they help to create.” PLANET Buy a Bale appeal in support of farmers impacted by the drought. BRAD BANDUCCI, CEO The funds helped deliver more livestock feed, cover essential household expenses and provide Drought Angels additional counselling support services to farmers in need in rural areas. In addition to raising 4 PROSPERITY Over 280 ALH pubs across funds, Woolworths also provided Australia came together to expertise in supply chain logistics participate in Parma For a Farmer and planning to deliver stock feed – an initiative to assist with to farmers. drought relief efforts. All donations raised went to Drought Angels, an Australian charity dedicated 5 to assisting Farmers and their Kelly Tarlton’s Turtle families through trying times. SUSTAINABILITY Rehabilitation Programme Variety – The Children’s Charity METRICS Countdown is partnering with New Zealand’s only turtle rescue Throughout the year, Woolworths and recovery program to help Mount Compass stores in NSW, ACT, SA and sick and injured turtles which NT host an assortment of wash up on New Zealand's shore Area School fundraising activities for Variety due to the plastics in our oceans. Mount Compass Area School – The Children‘s Charity. Variety Our partnership will provide was awarded a Woolworths' provides support for mobility funds to help upgrade the turtle sponsored Junior Landcare equipment like wheelchairs, rehabilitation area, including Award at the National Landcare walking aids, and modified building new holding tanks for Australia conference in October vehicles. As well as funding rare the recovering turtles, a food 2018. This award was in and expensive medical equipment. preparation area and a new lab recognition of the students' where the team can carry out efforts to guide and engage the water quality testing and animal community on the importance health checks. of Fleurieu swamplands. 64 Giving back to the IMPACT: communities in Commitment 18 which we operate Sustainable Development Goal Through the Woolworths Junior Landcare Grants program, we provide funding to inspire the next generation of environmental champions. Woolworths Junior Landcare Grants In June 2018, we phased out the use Landcare Grants program is part In addition, Woolworths is of single‑use plastic shopping bags of Woolworths’ commitment supporting Landcare Australia to nationally. This was a big change to invest in local communities develop their online resources. for our customers and our teams, and supports the next generation This online platform will provide and it has taken time to adjust, but of environmental champions. engaging, age appropriate thanks to our collective efforts, more resources to help teachers, parents, than three billion single‑use plastic Junior Landcare encourages community groups, youth groups bags have now been removed from young people to become aware, and children build knowledge the environment. Our 99c ‘Bag for empowered and active. Woolworths' and create deeper connections to Good’ was launched as part of our support for the program has helped sustainable land management and reusable bag offer, and funds from Junior Landcare inspire thousands conservation activities. the sale of these bags go towards of children to be connected to their the Woolworths Junior Landcare local environment and community. Grants program. Woolworths also sponsors the Woolworths Junior Landcare Team The first Woolworths Junior Award, a category in the National Landcare Grants were awarded Landcare Awards program. These in early 2019, when 538 primary prestigious awards acknowledge schools and early learning centres a school, youth organisation or young across the country received a grant community landcare team which of up to $1,000 each to support the contributes to raising awareness, delivery of environmental projects. sharing knowledge and promoting The Woolworths Junior Landcare participation of land care amongst Grants program aims to young people. The Woolworths inspire students with hands‑on Junior Landcare Award recognises projects that are focused on Junior Landcare teams who sustainable food production, implement land care practices improving waste management within the local community. practices and enhancing native habitats. The Woolworths Junior 65 WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Landcare Australia’s Junior Landcare program encourages young people to play an active role in ensuring the safe future of their environment. We’re delighted to be working in partnership with Woolworths to support thousands of children across Australia to get ‘hands on’ with nature. 1 PERFORMANCE Our Woolworths Junior Landcare Grants initiative is offering children the opportunity to share knowledge, develop skills and create experiences that foster HIGHLIGHTS connections with the environment and community from childhood to adulthood. By working together we're inspiring kids, and providing schools and early 2 learning centres the resources they need to champion PEOPLE for the environment. It's important we continue to drive this progress, and engage the entire community in a movement to being more sustainable and active in caring for the environment.” 3 DR. SHANE NORRISH, CEO LANDCARE AUSTRALIA PLANET 4 PROSPERITY 5 SUSTAINABILITY METRICS 66 Giving back to the IMPACT: communities in Commitment 18 which we operate Sustainable Development Goal We remain committed to supporting our communities when in need. Our S.T.A.N.D. partnership with the Salvation Army provides Support Through Australian Natural Disasters, and our partnership with Share the Dignity will help address period poverty. Our new partnership with Share the Dignity is helping women and girls in need Woolworths has worked closely with our hunger relief partners for many years, and when we learnt that some women in need were opting to feed their children rather than buy basic sanitary products, we knew we could help address this. Too many women have had to forfeit sanitary products because they cannot afford them, instead using socks, newspapers or other means to deal with their period. In March 2019, Woolworths partnered with Share the Dignity, an organisation with a mission to end period poverty, and help provide the basic items that vulnerable girls and women may be going without. This partnership has enabled Share the Dignity to increase the availability of Pinkbox Dignity Vending Machines which dispense a free pack of six tampons and two pads. These machines are installed in areas where vulnerable women and girls can easily access them – including in public schools in low socio‑economic areas, homeless hubs, domestic violence refuges, community centres, Aboriginal health services and hospitals. Along with 5c from the sale of every sanitary product in our supermarkets going to Share the Dignity, Woolworths is supporting their August Dignity Drive, encouraging customers to donate product in the collection boxes in our stores. 67 WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Salvation Army Emergency Services The past year has been a particularly tough one The Salvation Army is deeply grateful for the long‑term for countless Australians who suffered widespread support and generosity provided by Woolworths and our damage due to severe drought, devastating floods joint S.T.A.N.D. partnership, providing Support Through and raging bushfires. Australian Natural Disasters. Through our ongoing S.T.A.N.D. partnership with The Salvation Army we provide Support Through Australian Woolworths is an integral part of the life‑changing work 1 of The Salvation Army, we couldn’t do it without their PERFORMANCE Natural Disasters. This partnership helps fund the support. Our disaster response teams and chaplains work of The Salvation Army’s Emergency Services support those who are in crisis positively face, and work HIGHLIGHTS (SAES), helping them to effectively prepare to respond rapidly and provide immediate relief and recovery to through, hugely confronting situations, from their homes communities in need. being flooded or burned by fires, to their properties and 2 livelihoods suffering devastation by drought. In February 2019, Queensland experienced record breaking monsoonal rains that led to extensive flooding In just the first six weeks after the North Queensland floods, we deployed over 70 personnel, assisted more PEOPLE and significant loss of livestock and property. The SAES teams were on the ground in Townsville, operating than 3,600 households and delivered over $1.6 million in out of six community recovery hubs, and provided aid. We also referred 600 people to additional specialist immediate financial assistance, meals, and emotional support services, such as counselling, financial assistance, support to people, many of whom lost all their financial counselling, chaplain and pastoral support. 3 possessions in the floods. Floods, fires and droughts take years to recover from and Woolworths and The Salvation Army jointly launched the vital support of Woolworths enables The Salvation an emergency appeal, asking the public to donate at PLANET Army to help thousands of people rebuild their lives. our supermarket checkouts, and these funds were used to support flood affected residents in the immediate Thank you Woolworths for your significant investment aftermath, as well as during the hot, muddy and messy in people and for remaining faithful in your support as our clean‑up operations afterwards. national disaster partner. We are proud to be supporting The Salvation Army and help them to bring hope where it’s needed most. COMMISSIONERS FLOYD AND TRACEY TIDD, SALVATION ARMY AUSTRALIA 4 PROSPERITY 5 SUSTAINABILITY METRICS 68 Creating shared value IMPACT: with our customers Commitment 19 Listening to our customers and providing tailored offerings is vital to delivering the outstanding customer experiences we strive for. Voice of Customer Sourcing locally We run regular Voice of Customer Our customers continue to tell us that VOC improvement (VOC) surveys so that we can local and more sustainable sourcing BIG W has continued to improve understand what our customers are is important to them, and our team the customer experience in store looking for when they interact with of State‑ and Territory‑based local and online. Voice of customer us in one of our stores. Our VOC sourcing managers are continually data is used to gain a deeper scores for this year indicate that we seeking out products that are grown understanding of customer continue to have strong performance or produced locally to help us improve needs and behaviours and it is central to business decision and customer satisfaction across our ecological footprint. making. BIG W rolled out VOC the business. training across all stores and support office and is currently sitting on an average VOC score of 70 in F19, which is a two point increase on last year. Eastcoast Beverages Australian Sourced Fresh Products 1 (%) Eastcoast Beverages is Eastcoast uses 100% recyclable a third‑generation Australian bottles, their citrus goes to farmers family business based on the to use as cattle feed, their pulp 100 96 Central Coast of New South Wales. from a pulp free product is used as 88 They create premium quality, an addition to yogurts and desserts 100% Australian fresh fruit juices, and the wash down water from the 71 fruit drinks and spring water. plant is used to irrigate the trees in Fruit and Vegetables Eastcoast employs more than the orchard. Eastcoast’s mission is 25 local staff, and strives to always to be 100% recyclable and 100% use locally grown produce in its committed to the environment and Seafood operations. Eastcoast’s philosophy the people in it. Eastcoast products Meat Bakery is Return – Regrow –Re‑juice so are available in NSW Supermarkets that absolutely nothing is wasted. and Metro. 1 In Australian supermarkets. 69 WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Scan&Go Creating more accessible supermarkets Scan&Go allows customers to scan goods with their smartphone as they walk through Over the last year, we’ve worked closely with a range of 1 community groups to not only change how we develop PERFORMANCE the store and pay in the app before tapping off at a dedicated kiosk. our new stores and product range, but also to consider how we can create better experiences for customers and HIGHLIGHTS Woolworths Group Head of Payments and Financial team members who are living with a disability, or just Services Paul Monnington said: “Our customers lead need an extra helping hand. busy lives and they want us to make shopping more 2 convenient than ever before. The trial in our Double Our ‘Quiet Hour’ stores are a powerful demonstration of Bay supermarket has been a success, with positive the impact that even a small gesture can have. Five stores feedback from our customers and team, and we’re in the North Island now hold regular ‘Quiet Hour’ shopping PEOPLE pleased to now extend the benefits of Scan&Go sessions where the lights are dimmed, announcements and to more shoppers. Most customers in our CBD excess noises are reduced, and there is minimal movement Metro stores just want to duck in and out for a few items, so we expect the speed and ease of Scan&Go on the shop floor from team members for an hour – creating will be quite a popular offer in this setting.” a more optimal shopping environment for customers with autism spectrum disorders. Plans are underway for at least We have expanded the Scan&Go trial and it is now available for customers at Woolworths Metro stores in Pitt Street, Met Centre, George seven more stores throughout the country to start their own ‘Quiet Hours’ over the next six months. 3 PLANET Street and York Street in Sydney’s CBD and Woolworths supermarkets in Mona Vale and Double Bay. 4 The Kitchen PROSPERITY ‘The Kitchen’ by Woolworths in fruit and vegetables, including Double Bay is our custom‑made concept offering and has organic, some sourced from Green Camel Organic Produce, based an hour 5 healthy options and sustainability out of Sydney, who use high‑tech initiatives at its heart. organic glasshouses and special SUSTAINABILITY water‑efficient systems to reduce METRICS It has a wide range of organic fruit the use of resources. and vegetables, an expanded Macro Wholefoods market range, on‑site ‘The Kitchen’ also provides florist, fresh juice bar, barista‑made shopping trolleys made from organic coffee, healthy take‑away recycled milk bottles and all food options, and a wholesome eat eco‑baskets are made from recycled in‑cafe which offers a flexitarian soft plastics. The store will also act range of 100% plant‑based as a trial location for new innovative burgers, sausages and tofu, as products, with a view to rolling the well as filled pastas and sauces. products out in other parts of the Sustainable local sourcing is also Woolworths network if successful. a focus, with a range of organic 70 Responsible service IMPACT: of alcohol Commitment 20 Sustainable Development Goal We recognise our obligations regarding the responsible service, sale and marketing of alcohol and strive to be an industry leader in this important area. DrinkIQ safer drinking culture in Australia. Development of Delivery Code DrinkIQ is a responsible drinking DrinkWise develops and implements of Conduct training program developed by our a range of national information and Working with Retail Drinks Australia trading partner Diageo that we are education campaigns, and provides (RDA) we have developed an working to implement across the practical resources to help inform industry applicable Delivery Code Endeavour Drinks business. We are and support the community about of Conduct (Code) which will be in the early stages planning the roll alcohol use. adopted by RDA members across out of this program to our teams. In addition to our usual storewide the board (including Endeavour responsible consumption messaging, Drinks, Coles and other independent ABAC we also support DrinkWise with retailers). Much of the Code We were the first retailer to programs such as the tailored has been based on our internal subscribe to the Alcohol Beverages campaign run annually in our RSA policies. Advertising Code (ABAC); 'Schoolies hot‑spot' stores. a voluntary responsible marketing Liquor Accords Portal launched code for industry. We have been RSA Mystery Shops We have launched an internal a direct signatory since 2013, and The ID25 Mystery Shop program ‘Liquor Accords Portal’ which is regularly engage with ABAC’s operates in all of our physical BWS a platform connecting our store management committee regarding and Dan Murphy's sites, as well as teams with information and changes in advertising platforms across our online businesses. This resources provided by Liquor such as social media. As a signatory, program involves mystery shoppers Accords across Australia. we submit the vast majority of our and tests whether our Community marketing campaigns to the ABAC The portal replaces a manual Charter (which outlines our formal Alcohol Advertising Pre‑Vetting contact and engagement method commitment to the communities Service, which considers whether and will empower store teams to that we serve) and ID25 Policy are our marketing plans are consistent drive community engagement with working well. Each Dan Murphy's with the ABAC. other local industry representatives, store is tested once every eight businesses, council and local police. weeks, while BWS stores are tested We are active in local liquor accords DrinkWise twice a year to ensure that we are where they exist. We have continued our long asking customers that appear under standing relationship with 25 for ID prior to processing a sale. DrinkWise again in F19. DrinkWise is an independent, not‑for‑profit organisation primarily focused on helping bring about a healthier and 71 Responsible gaming IMPACT: WOOLWORTHS GROUP 20 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Commitment Sustainable ALH acknowledges that problem gambling is a serious Development Goal community issue, and have taken steps to enhance its responsible gaming practices. This includes enhancing training programs for our team members and precluding the service of complimentary alcohol in gaming rooms. 1 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS • Enhanced programs and customer other areas of the hotel, as to not engagement to promote voluntary pre‑commitment to gaming limits by customers to attract children. 6. We offer and promote voluntary 2 PEOPLE pre‑commitment – a system that • Enhancements to its privacy training helps players stick to their limit The Australian Leisure and procedures. by nominating maximum spending or time limits on gaming machines. and Hospitality Group These commitments are underpinned by ALH's Responsible Gaming Charter 7. We train our staff to be aware of (ALH) and its Australia‑wide voluntary customer pre‑commitment program, behaviour that may indicate gambling problems and to provide appropriate 3 which is aimed at helping customers customer care. We require all ALH PLANET As the Woolworths Group has a significant stake in ALH, and to stay in control of their gaming. hotel managers and RG hosts to recognises that problem gambling complete additional advanced These measures will ensure that ALH is a serious community issue, an responsible gambling training. continues to be the industry leader in independent management review the responsible service of alcohol and 8. We partner with expert groups into ALH responsible gaming practices was conducted in 2018. As a result of the review, ALH took a number gaming products. ALH also recognises that problem and specialists who can help staff and patrons deal with problem 4 gambling, including Gamblers’ Help PROSPERITY of steps to enhance its responsible gambling is a serious community issue (Australia’s leading professional gaming practices including immediate and takes its obligations to promote counselling service) and the introduction of a uniform policy across responsible gaming very seriously. ALH’s Salvation Army. the organisation and precluding the Hotel and Gambling Charter (introduced service of complimentary alcohol in 2010, as updated in 2018): 9. We ensure that ATM machines, in gaming rooms. In addition, a report commissioned 1. We provide a safe, friendly environment in which all hotel where approved, are provided for the convenience of all patrons in a safe, central location and not 5 SUSTAINABILITY in 2017 by ALH was conducted by customers can socialise and enjoy in gaming areas. the Responsible Gambling Council themselves in a good atmosphere. 10. We do not serve complimentary METRICS of Canada (RGCC) to assess 2. We provide good value, good ALH’s gaming operations against alcohol in gaming rooms. quality meals and family friendly world best practice. This extensive dining experiences. 11. We support local communities review endorsed ALH’s culture and in numerous ways, including working commitment to responsible gaming, 3. We believe we have a shared with charities to raise money through training, communication and responsibility, along with through our hotels. responsible practices. The RGCC made individuals, families, communities a number of recommendations that will and governments, to ensure 12. We conduct internal and external enhance ALH’s responsible gambling responsible behaviour. audits to ensure we deliver on our practices, which ALH has adopted. commitment to be Australia’s most 4. We do not conduct responsible operator of hotels. ALH has committed to and promotions which encourage is implementing: irresponsible drinking. 13. We have introduced a national Gaming Code of Conduct to ensure • Enhanced training programs to assist 5. We restrict gaming room access a consistent approach to customer gaming staff with customer care to adults and ensure gaming rooms engagement across the business. are screened or separated from 72 Making healthier IMPACT: eating easier Commitment 20 Sustainable Development Goal Our customers tell us that health is important and want us to make healthier eating easier for them and their families. We are committed to helping our customers do more of the healthy things they’re already doing, and supporting our customers to make healthier choices no matter where they are on their health journey. Healthier foods Healthier stores Providing Making it easier to select Promoting fresh produce healthier foods healthier products in our stores with innovation In November 2018, we achieved In the past 12 months, 116 stores Our Macro Wholefoods our goal of including Health have been reformatted to highlight Market brand is Australia’s Star Ratings on 100% of eligible destinations for berries, avocados, leading supermarket health Own Brand products (more than organics, Odd Bunch and nuts food brand. There are now 2,200 foods). to make it easier for customers more than 800 products to identify and shop these key We have also introduced key in the range, including the growth categories. dietary and lifestyle attributes launch of Macro Green onto shelf tickets for Own Brand We’ve continued our highly Banana Flour, Macro products, including whether the successful ‘Free Fruit for Kids’ Sweet Potato and Broccoli products are vegetarian, organic program in all of our supermarkets Powder and Macro Miso & or a source of protein. This across Australia. An estimated 32 Mushroom Kale Corn Chips system is designed to help our million pieces of fruit have been in the last 12 months. customers more easily identify donated in the last 12 months. products that suit their dietary and lifestyle needs. Australia's healthiest Reducing prices on Own Brands ‘healthier for you’ items In April 2019 the George To help make healthier choices Institute for Global Health more affordable, we've invested found that Woolworths Own millions by offering every day Brands were the healthiest low prices and dropping the price of any major Australian on more than 230 'healthier' items supermarket based on mean (including core foods or foods Health Star Ratings compared with 4 or more Health Stars) over to Coles, Aldi and IGA 1. the last 12 months. 1 The George Institute for Global Health. FoodSwitch: State of the Food Supply. April 2019. 73 WOOLWORTHS GROUP Healthier communities SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Health in New Zealand In New Zealand in the last year, key health initiatives included: Fresh Food Kids Discovery Tours Supporting active, healthy lifestyles in children • Participating in the NZ Heart Foundation’s Heart 1 PERFORMANCE SAFE reformulation We extended this free initiative to We continue our support of program by removing 14.8 tonnes of sugar from HIGHLIGHTS Woolworths stores nationally in Life Education, Cricket Australia, our Our Brand breakfast July 2018, and so far over 200,000 Surfing Australia and Netball Australia. cereals and 12.4 tonnes students have taken part. of salt from our processed meat (including bacon and ham) in the past 12 months 2 PEOPLE • Rolling out Health Star Ratings across 99% of our eligible Our Brand products (more than 1,000 foods) Woolworths Centre for Providing healthier recipes, 3 • Continuing our removal Childhood Nutrition Research food ideas and tips of artificial colours and flavours (now complete PLANET for 94% of Own Brand Since launching in January 2018, In September 2018 we launched our products). the centre’s research has focused on ‘Healthier Easier’ online hub, with delivering innovative nutrition research recipes, tips and food ideas to help that enhances the understanding of inspire our customers to eat healthier. childhood nutrition. 4 Making foods healthier with reformulation PROSPERITY In the last 12 months, we’ve improved the nutritional value of more than 70 Own Brand products including everyday categories such as breakfast cereals, ready meals, condiments and canned foods. Over the last seven years, our reformulation efforts have resulted in: 5 440 tonnes less salt SUSTAINABILITY METRICS 135 tonnes less saturated fat 340 tonnes less sugar 14,000 tonnes more whole grains 100% Our Brand products free of artificial colours, flavours and added MSG 74 Sustainability metrics TOTAL CO2 EMISSIONS (t CO2‑e) ALH BIG W BWS Corporate Dan Murphys FABCOT Logistics Masters New Zealand Petrol Supermarkets and Metro Thomas Dux 0.0 500,000 1,000,000 1,500,000 2,000,000 2,500,000 2017 2018 2019 ELECTRICITY USE (MWh) ALH BIG W BWS Corporate Dan Murphys FABCOT Logistics Masters New Zealand Petrol Supermarkets and Metro Thomas Dux 0 500,000 1,000,000 1,500,000 2,000,000 2017 2018 2019 75 WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EMISSIONS FROM FACILITIES (t CO2‑e) SCOPE 1 SCOPE 2 SCOPE 3 TOTAL ALH 33,829 222,689 30,931 287,449 BIG W 4,169 128,180 22,568 154,917 BWS 3,082 44,577 6,850 54,509 Corporate Dan Murphys 1,443 6,976 29,025 52,177 4,661 6,767 35,129 65,920 1 PERFORMANCE FABCOT 81 5,628 729 6,438 Logistics 338 87,451 16,708 104,497 New Zealand 51,300 35,115 17,957 104,372 HIGHLIGHTS Supermarkets and Metro 452,583 1,486,839 262,560 2,201,982 2 Grand Total 553,801 2,091,681 369,731 3,015,213 TRANSPORT EMISSIONS BY USE (t CO2e) PEOPLE END USE AUSTRALIA NEW ZEALAND Business Travel 4,863 2,232 3 Home delivery 10,475 10,555 Logistics 3rd Party Road 95,816 23,296 Trolley Collection 15,914 – PLANET WASTE (tonnes) Australia – material diverted from landfill 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 4 PROSPERITY Food waste to composting or energy 1 17,359 15,791 16,877 16,187 50,626 Food waste to farmers – – – – 32,318 Food to charity 2,956 3,231 4,015 4,062 7,791 Cardboard 192,170 218,535 222,145 229,821 233,167 Plastic film 7,028 8,226 9,232 9,088 8,998 Polystyrene Other 3 131 – 47 – 296 – 46 40 – 5 SUSTAINABILITY Total Australia 219,647 245,830 252,565 259,204 332,940 METRICS New Zealand – materials diverted from landfill 2015 2 2016 2017 2018 2019 Cardboard 25,324 26,057 26,709 28,219 28,499 Plastic film 1,253 1,307 1,296 1,412 1,596 Food waste to farmers 807 787 768 1,265 887 Food to charity 3 509 509 509 1,895 2,603 Other 435 440 1,193 836 2,410 Total NZ 28,328 29,100 30,475 33,627 35,994 Total diverted 247,975 274,930 283,040 292,831 368,935 Total Waste to landfill 97,389 1 F19 food waste to composting or energy scope has been updated from prior years. 2 F15 total excluded Farmers and charity. 3 2018 Food waste to farmers and charity methodology has been updated from prior years. 76 Workplace metrics BOARD OF DIRECTORS FEMALE MALE TOTAL <25 0 0 0 25–<35 0 0 0 35–<45 0 0 0 45–<55 3 1 4 55–<65 1 1 2 >65 1 2 3 Total 5 4 9 FEMALE REPRESENTATION BY EMPLOYMENT CATEGORY 1 Executives 29% Senior Managers 34% Managers 43% Office support 55% Technicians and trades 11% Sales 59% Other 18% RATIO OF BASIC SALARY AND REMUNERATION OF FEMALE TO MALE EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT CATEGORY 1 This table averages all the salaries within the non‑managerial or managerial category. Within each category, there are different roles and levels of positions. The ratio to average reported here does not compare like‑with‑like roles and does not represent the Pay Parity Project. 2019 2018 AVERAGE AVERAGE ANNUALISED RATIO TO ANNUALISED RATIO TO SALARY AVERAGE SALARY AVERAGE Non‑managerial Female $47,298.38 96.44% $47,412.27 97.05% Non‑managerial Male $51,237.68 104.47% $50,638.30 103.65% Average Salary $49,044.65 $48,854.17 Managerial Female $79,747.45 92.98% $77,282.05 92.40% Managerial Male $90,209.77 105.17% $87,952.71 105.16% Average Salary $85,771.27 $83,635.69 RESPECT AND DIGNITY We expect our employees to treat each other, our customers and our suppliers with respect and dignity. We train our employees on these expectations, but sometimes we do have issues which escalate to external jurisdictions. We are working towards a resolution on the outstanding claims. Discrimination No of claims lodged in Australia during the year 18 Number resolved in financial year 20 1 This is provided from the WGEA report which has an extraction date of 1/1/2019 and is for Australian based Team Members only. 77 WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Freedom of Association We have longstanding relationships with the unions that represent our employees, and 80% of our workplace is covered by Enterprise Bargaining Agreements (EBAs). GROUP EBA EMPLOYEES TOTAL HEADCOUNT % ALH (Venue & Support) 0 11,377 0.0% Big W Endeavour Drinks 15,762 7,418 17,438 14,600 90.4% 50.8% 1 PERFORMANCE Food Group 126,088 142,536 88.5% Statewide Independent Wholesalers 1 329 360 91.4% Group Support 6,976 9,706 71.9% HIGHLIGHTS Total Employees 156,573 196,017 79.9% 1 Wholesale customer stores. 2 WORKFORCE AND TURNOVER PEOPLE Headcount by Business Unit GROUP/BRAND FEMALE MALE TOTAL ALH (Venue & Support) 6,348 5,029 11,377 Big W Endeavour Drinks 11,990 5,556 5,448 9,044 17,438 14,600 3 PLANET Food Group 80,970 61,566 142,536 Statewide Independent Wholesalers 2 27 333 360 Group Support 2,270 7,436 9,706 TOTAL 107,161 88,856 196,017 4 2 Wholesale customer stores. Head‑count by employee type PROSPERITY FEMALE MALE TOTAL Full‑time 24,528 30,447 54,975 Part‑time 50,660 30,303 80,963 5 Casual 31,973 28,106 60,079 Total 107,161 88,856 196,017 SUSTAINABILITY Head‑count by region FEMALE MALE TOTAL METRICS ACT 1,338 1,396 2,734 NSW 31,591 26,889 58,480 NT 1,017 788 1,805 QLD 22,524 17,048 39,572 SA 6,085 5,671 11,756 TAS 2,667 2,068 4,735 VIC 22,401 20,383 42,784 WA 9,082 6,402 15,484 NZ 10,192 8,075 18,267 China 251 110 361 Bangladesh 6 25 31 Thailand 7 1 8 Total 107,161 88,856 196,017 78 Workplace metrics (continued) Workforce by age AGE BAND FEMALE MALE TOTAL <25 36,007 36,312 72,319 25–<35 21,672 24,026 45,698 35–<45 17,698 13,763 31,461 45–<55 17,081 8,509 25,590 55–<65 12,392 5,125 17,517 >65 2,311 1,121 3,432 Total 107,161 88,856 196,017 Turn over by region TOTAL TERMINATIONS % LABOUR TURNOVER FEMALE MALE TOTAL FEMALE MALE TOTAL ACT 340 458 798 23.9% 34.5% 29.0% NSW 6,512 6,693 13,205 20.3% 25.0% 22.4% NT 347 343 690 36.1% 40.6% 38.2% QLD 5,357 4,754 10,111 24.2% 26.8% 25.4% SA 1,192 1,297 2,489 19.5% 22.8% 21.1% TAS 403 435 838 14.9% 20.8% 17.5% VIC 4,594 4,933 9,527 19.9% 24.5% 22.0% WA 1,984 1,855 3,839 23.0% 27.0% 24.8% NZ 2,328 2,492 4,820 22.9% 31.0% 26.5% China 92 46 138 33.6% 28.8% 31.8% Bangladesh 1 2 3 24.5% 40.0% 33.0% Thailand 1 1 2 19.4% 57.1% 28.9% Total 23,151 23,309 46,460 21.5% 26.0% 23.6% Turnover by age TOTAL TURNOVER % LABOUR TURNOVER FEMALE MALE TOTAL FEMALE MALE TOTAL <25 11,850 12,502 24,352 32.3% 33.5% 32.9% 25–<35 5,127 6,159 11,286 23.8% 25.9% 24.9% 35–<45 2,615 2,399 5,014 14.8% 17.5% 15.9% 45–<55 1,905 1,257 3,162 11.1% 14.7% 12.3% 55–<65 1,189 707 1,896 9.7% 13.9% 10.9% >65 465 285 750 20.8% 25.2% 22.3% Total 23,151 23,309 46,460 21.5% 26.0% 23.6% 79 WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 New Hires by Region TOTAL NEW HIRES REGION FEMALE MALE TOTAL Australian Capital Territory 389 471 860 New South Wales 7,500 7,320 14,820 Northern Territory Queensland 393 5,844 337 5,022 730 10,866 1 PERFORMANCE South Australia 1,302 1,240 2,542 Tasmania 386 399 785 HIGHLIGHTS Victoria 4,883 5,166 10,049 Western Australia 2,120 2,012 4,132 2 New Zealand 3,176 3,351 6,527 China 103 32 135 Bangladesh 4 10 14 Thailand 4 0 4 PEOPLE Total 26,104 25,360 51,464 New Hires by Age AGE FEMALE TOTAL NEW HIRES MALE TOTAL 3 <25 14,976 15,495 30,471 PLANET 25–<35 5,454 5,901 11,355 35–<45 2,843 2,243 5,086 45–<55 2,006 1,055 3,061 55–<65 >65 763 62 586 80 1,349 142 4 PROSPERITY Total 26,104 25,360 51,464 Parental Leave 1 We offer paid parental leave to eligible Australian‑based team members, which includes 12 weeks paid parental leave, total parental leave period of up to 24 months and superannuation paid on both paid and unpaid leave for the first 12 months. Permanent team members are eligible if they have completed six months of continuous service prior to taking the leave or if they qualify as an eligible casual employee. 5 2019 SUSTAINABILITY 2018 METRICS ON PARENTAL TEAM MEMBERS ON PARENTAL TEAM MEMBERS LEAVE IN PERIOD STILL EMPLOYED 2 LEAVE IN PERIOD STILL EMPLOYED 2 Female 4,387 4,180 4,373 4,225 Male 351 348 38 32 Total 4,738 4,528 4,411 4,257 1 This is provided from the WGEA report which has an extraction date of 1/1/2019 and is for Australian based Team Members only. 2 Team members in this category are considered to have either returned from parental leave during the period, or remain on parental leave at period end. 80 Workplace metrics (continued) SAFETY AND HEALTH PERFORMANCE Occupational health and safety management system Number and % of employees covered by an occupational health and safety management system that are internally and externally audited All our Australian and New Zealand team members, contractors and labour hire workers are covered by Business Safety Management Systems. All of our safety management systems are internally audited by our Group Safety and Health Assurance function or by Group Risk Internal Audit. All of our safety management systems are externally audited in at least one Jurisdiction where it is required as part of our self‑insurer license terms or as part of other legal requirements such as the ACC in New Zealand. NO. OF PERCENTAGE OF BUSINESS TEAM MEMBERS TEAM MEMBERS Supermarkets 120,822 100.00% Supply Chain 8,066 100.00% BIG W 17,438 100.00% Metro 3,448 100.00% Endeavour Drinks 9,579 100.00% Corporate 1,778 100.00% Woolworths New Zealand 18,267 100.00% ALH Hotels 15,917 100.00% Woolworths Group 195,315 100.00% 1 The table above provides data for employees only and excludes contractors and labour hire. 2 Employees that are not on the core Woolworths payroll system are excluded. WORK RELATED INJURIES Business TRIFR and TRI results for 2019 BUSINESS PER MILLION HRS PER 200,000 HRS TRI FY19 HOURS WORKED Supermarkets 13.46 2.69 1,687 125,310,506 Supply Chain 28.56 5.71 354 12,394,878 BIG W 8.24 1.65 145 17,599,041 Metro 10.05 2.01 34 3,383,192 Endeavour Drinks 13.08 2.62 171 13,069,384 Corporate 3.95 0.79 13 3,294,851 Woolworths New Zealand 18.17 3.63 530 29,162,892 ALH Hotels 25.21 5.04 315 12,494,719 Woolworths Group 1 14.99 3.00 3,249 216,709,463 1 Excludes Petrol. 81 WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Business TRIs by Gender for 2019 FEMALE MALE TOTAL BUSINESS COUNT % COUNT % COUNT Supermarkets 1,148 68% 539 32% 1,687 Supply Chain 67 19% 287 81% 354 BIG W Metro 108 17 74% 50% 37 17 26% 50% 145 34 1 PERFORMANCE Endeavour Drinks 83 49% 88 51% 171 Corporate 10 77% 3 23% 13 HIGHLIGHTS Woolworths New Zealand 292 55% 238 45% 530 ALH Hotels 184 58% 131 42% 315 2 Woolworths Group 1 1,909 59% 1,340 41% 3,249 1 Excludes Petrol. PEOPLE Woolworths Group Limited TRIFR for F17–19 KPI F17 F18 F19 TRIFR (million hours worked) 17.19 15.90 14.99 TRIFR (200,000 hours worked) 3.44 3.18 3.00 TRIs by Nature Group for 2019 3 PLANET FEMALE MALE TOTAL NATURE GROUP COUNT % COUNT % COUNT Traumatic Sprain/Strain 882 59% 619 41% 1501 Musculoskeletal 437 60% 291 40% 728 Wounds and Lacerations 230 56% 183 44% 413 Fractures Other 104 256 58% 60% 74 173 42% 40% 178 429 4 PROSPERITY Woolworths Group 1 1,909 59% 1,340 41% 3,249 1 Excludes Petrol. TRIs by Mechanism Group for 2019 5 FEMALE MALE TOTAL MECHANISM GROUP COUNT % COUNT % COUNT Manual Handling 1,116 56% 876 44% 1,992 SUSTAINABILITY Slips/Trips 325 74% 112 26% 437 Hitting Objects 183 58% 134 42% 317 METRICS Being hit by moving objects 158 53% 140 47% 298 Other 127 62% 78 38% 205 Woolworths Group 1 1,909 59% 1,340 41% 3,249 1 Excludes Petrol. 82 Workplace metrics (continued) Business Close Calls (Near Hits) WOOLWORTHS GROUP CONTRACTOR AGENCY BUSINESS COUNT COUNT COUNT Supermarkets 235 27 5 Supply Chain 952 100 179 BIG W 155 8 5 Metro 18 9 0 Endeavour Drinks 134 18 3 Corporate 4 1 0 Woolworths New Zealand 421 66 20 ALH Hotels Not Available Not Available Not Available Woolworths Group1 1,919 229 212 1 Excludes Petrol. Business High Potential Work‑related incidents BUSINESS TOTAL COMBINED CONTRACTORS AGENCY Supermarkets 0 0 0 Supply Chain 1 1 0 BIG W 2 2 0 Metro 0 0 0 Endeavour Drinks 0 0 0 Corporate 0 0 0 Woolworths New Zealand 4 4 0 ALH Hotels 0 0 0 Woolworths Group 1 7 7 0 1 Excludes Petrol. 83 WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 WORKPLACE ILL HEALTH ‘Ill health’ indicates damage to health and includes diseases, illnesses, and disorders. The terms ‘disease’, ‘illness’, and ‘disorder’ are often used interchangeably and refer to conditions with specific symptoms and diagnoses Business Ill Health by Gender for 2019 BUSINESS COUNT FEMALE % MALE COUNT % TOTAL COUNT FY19 HOURS WORKED 1 Supermarkets 438 68% 207 32% 645 125,310,506 Supply Chain 28 19% 120 81% 148 12,394,878 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS BIG W 36 71% 15 29% 51 17,599,041 Metro 2 22% 7 78% 9 3,383,192 Endeavour Drinks 35 50% 35 50% 70 13,069,384 Corporate Woolworths New Zealand 4 6 80% 86% 1 1 20% 14% 5 7 3,294,851 29,162,892 2 PEOPLE ALH Hotels 34 72% 13 28% 47 12,494,719 Woolworths Group 1 583 59% 399 41% 982 216,709,463 1 Excludes Petrol. Ill Health TRIs by Nature Group NATURE GROUP COUNT FEMALE % MALE COUNT % TOTAL COUNT 3 PLANET Musculoskeletal 426 60% 282 40% 708 Psychological 82 67% 40 33% 122 Digestive System Diseases (e.g Hernia) 16 20% 64 80% 80 Other 59 82% 13 18% 72 Woolworths Group 1 1 Excludes Petrol. 583 59% 399 41% 982 4 PROSPERITY WORK‑RELATED FATALITIES Work‑related fatalities include those where Woolworths Group operations have been a contributing factor. Team member work‑related fatalities 0 Contractor/agency fatalities 0 5 SUSTAINABILITY METRICS 84 Workplace metrics (continued) RESPONSIBLE SOURCING RISK SEGMENTATION While Woolworths Group operations and supply chains are complex, our aim is to ensure that human rights are respected and understood. For us, responsible sourcing is not about auditing all suppliers in scope of the Standards; it is about taking a targeted and informed approach in sectors where there are known risks and where we have limited visibility. To this end, we will conduct an annual supplier risk assessment. This assessment is based on a number of factors including country risk, third‑party social compliance data and the nature of the supplier arrangement. Based on this assessment, suppliers will be categorised into four risk segments and this segmentation will determine the activities suppliers are required to complete in order to verify compliance with the Standards. A risk‑based and leverage‑driven approach Extreme helps to prioritise supplier engagements by likelihood of influence supported by information on inherent sourcing risks MODERATE PRIORITY to optimise program impacts. High METHODOLOGY RISK LEVERAGE RISK 50% 25% Medium Inherent country Length of business risks from public relationship MINIMUM SPECIALISED domain data (e.g. World Bank, Global 40% Slavery Index, $ spend amongst Low Transparency peer suppliers in International, etc.) each business unit 50% 35% D C B A $ spend trend over ELEVATE audit data the past 3 years LEVERAGE STAKEHOLDER GROUPS AT OUR RETAIL ROUNDTABLES 100% 80% 60% 40% 20% 0% Roundtable 1 Roundtable 2 Roundtable 3 Industry initiative Consultancy and auditing Trade association Non-profit Retailer Manufacturer/distributor 85 Corporate Governance WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GOVERNANCE, THE BOARD AND DIRECTORS Corporate governance is at the core of Woolworths’ and the Board’s approach to the enhancement of shareholder value and the protection of shareholder funds. Integral to shareholder value is protecting and enhancing our reputation, which is why the Board oversees the Company’s approach to corporate responsibility and sustainability. The Woolworths Board Sustainability Committee, which meets quarterly, reviews performance on issues of Safety and Health, Sustainability and Community Investment. The Sustainability Committee conducts regular site visits across our businesses. Information on our Board of Directors and the Board Charter is at: 1 PERFORMANCE https://www.woolworthsgroup.com.au/page/about‑us/our‑leadership‑team/board‑of‑directors/ Information on our Sustainability Committee and its charter is at: HIGHLIGHTS https://www.woolworthsgroup.com.au/page/about‑us/our‑leadership‑team/board‑committees/ More information is in our corporate governance statement: 2 https://www.woolworthsgroup.com.au/page/about‑us/our‑approach/corporate‑governance/ RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK The continued growth and success of Woolworths depends on the ability of our Company to understand and respond to the PEOPLE challenges of an uncertain and changing world. As a large, dispersed and complex organisation, this uncertainty generates risk, with the potential to be a source of both opportunities and threats. By understanding and managing risk, the Group provides greater certainty and confidence for all its stakeholders. More information about our approach to risk management is in our risk management policy. See: http://www.woolworthsgroup.com.au/icms_docs/182376_Risk_Management_Policy.pdf SENIOR MANAGEMENT 3 PLANET The Woolworths Group Executive Committee, chaired by the Chief Executive Officer, provides management oversight of the effectiveness of the Group’s implementation of the safety and health vision, principles, policy, standards, strategy and initiatives, risk processes, resources, information, compliance and assurance. DOING THE RIGHT THING All of our team members commit to our Code of Conduct to maintain the highest legal, moral and ethical standards in our dealings with customers, suppliers, team members and local communities. This code outlines how employees can meet the 4 PROSPERITY highest standards through their everyday behaviours and choices. We are committed to continuous improvement, transparency and accountability. We don’t tolerate workplace misconduct under any circumstances and we need our trade partners to work with us to stamp out any and every instance. We have clear, long‑standing and accepted procedures for trade partners to report any issues. However we recognise there is always opportunity to strengthen our systems. Our Speak Up service is available for trade partners to use when normal escalation methods have been exhausted or are inappropriate. 5 POLITICAL DONATIONS Woolworths Group participates in policy development and advocacy in a manner that is open, transparent, and compliant with SUSTAINABILITY METRICS all relevant laws. Any political donations made by the Woolworths Group – such as attendance at events, functions and forums organised by parliamentarians and political parties – are reported publicly in line with relevant electoral laws. This is overseen by the Chief Executive Officer and the Head of Government and Industry Affairs in accordance with the Woolworths Group Political Donations Policy. TRANSPARENCY AND REPORTING Woolworths uses the globally recognised reporting framework developed by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The GRI reporting framework sets out the principles and indicators that organisations can use to measure and report their economic, environmental, and social performance. This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. More information can be found in the GRI Index starting on page 91. We continue to report to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), an investor‑driven disclosure initiative enabling companies to report on risk identification and mitigation processes related to climate change. We are a signatory to the United National Global Compact (UNGC). The Index on page 90 shows our approach to the UNGC core values. 86 Materiality The issues that matter To focus our efforts and maximise our impact, we The chart maps the 11 most material issues identified in our need to understand the issues that matter most to our recent materiality assessment, grouping them into our three stakeholders. This is done through our materiality strategic pillars of people, planet and prosperity. assessment process. A robust sustainability materiality These are the current focus of our sustainability efforts. process can help us to: Other material issues such as safety and health, cyber • Build better relationships with stakeholders security/privacy, customer/product safety and quality are • Ensure global megatrends and local market conditions are more mature and are embedded into the business‑as‑usual being used to assess and approach risks and opportunities processes. • Prioritise what to focus on strategically. STRATEGIC PILLAR MATERIAL ISSUE DEFINITION RELEVANT SDGS The success of our business is built on our people, therefore we must Employee continue to focus on attracting, retaining and developing talented teams, People engagement and today and into the future, as the nature of work continues to evolve. development This also includes our continued focus on maintaining a safe environment for our team members and customers. We are committed to creating and maintaining a diverse and inclusive Diversity and People inclusion workforce in terms of gender, age, ethnicity, disability, sexual orientation, etc. Assessing and managing “ethical” and “responsible” issues embedded Sustainable supply Planet chain within our supply chain and other third‑party partnerships, including both social and environmental issues. Implementing effective and meaningful waste management strategies, Waste and Planet packaging including our activities to help our customers manage their own waste and recycling. Organisational responses to risks of climate change; both physical Planet Climate risk and transitional. Maintaining a values‑based business with a culture of good governance Corporate conduct Prosperity and ethics and ethical conduct, where culture supports the effective functioning of core systems and processes. We understand the responsibility that comes with the role our business Trust in Woolworths plays in communities across Australia and New Zealand. We put our Prosperity Group customers at the heart of everything we do at Woolworths Group and are committed to getting it right, and to make things better when we don’t. Providing a healthy and ethical environment, where customer (and Responsible Prosperity gaming community) interests are protected from the harmful consequences of problem gambling. Upholding human rights across all aspects of our operations, Responsible sourcing encompassing labour rights associated with our workforce, contractor Prosperity and human rights and third‑party relationships and in the supply chain; in addition to protecting rights to privacy for our own workforce and customers. Community Sponsoring a meaningful role in the local communities where our Prosperity engagement and businesses operate, including activities to engage, invest and develop development local communities. Partnering throughout the supply chain to build collaborative Third‑party relationships with suppliers, interest groups, media, government Prosperity relationships and other stakeholders, for the purpose of delivering sustainable development outcomes. 87 WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 UN 2030 Sustainable Development Goals 17 global goals set by the United Nations in 2015, the SDGs define global sustainable development priorities and aspirations for the planet. They seek to mobilise global efforts around a common set of goals and targets. We believe that the business community has a role to play in progressing these important issues, and we have aligned our material issues with the relevant SDGs. The Approach The approach we have taken to analyse Woolworths Group’s material issues aligns to the Global Reporting Initiative Standards 1 1 reporting requirements and includes the following steps: PERFORMANCE • Desktop review of a range of information sources • Engaging with both internal and external stakeholders HIGHLIGHTS • Prioritising what the most material issues are, including analysis of whether these present risks/opportunities over the short or longer‑term time horizons • Internal validation by senior leaders and board. 2 Materiality Matrix PEOPLE The Materiality Matrix shows the interest stakeholders had in the issue (y‑axis), the time of potential impact (x‑axis) and the consequence of the issue to Woolworths Group (size of the bubble). 3 PLANET Corporate conduct Waste and and ethics packaging Trust in Woolworths Group 4 PROSPERITY Responsible gaming Responsible sourcing and human rights Stakeholder interest Sustainable 5 supply chain Climate risk SUSTAINABILITY Employee engagement and development METRICS Third-party relationships Diversity and inclusion Community engagement and development Time KEY:  People  Planet  Prosperity 1 Refer to appendix for GRI Index. 88 Industry association INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION MEMBERSHIPS Principles for engagement • Industry Associations are an important component of Woolworths Group’s overall public policy advocacy effort. Our broad set of memberships – from core economy‑wide memberships such as the BCA and Ai Group (see below) to sector specific memberships such as the Green Building Council of Australia, the Australian Logistics Council and the Data Institute ‑ reflect the breadth of policy issues relevant to the Group. • Our overriding ambition is that memberships help promote pro sustainable growth, productivity enhancing economic reforms that deliver broad societal benefit. • We seek broad alignment with the policy positions of our industry associations, but recognise this is not always possible. Membership does not preclude Woolworths Group from holding different policy positions, especially where this better reflects expectations of our customers, shareholders, team and the community. • We seek to participate as a constructive partner on the priority policy making forums of each Industry Association, including through the relevant Committee and Working Group structures. Support can extend to technical advice and to public campaigns designed to better inform public debate. • Each Membership has an internal relationship owner, the responsibility of which includes ensuring any major policy misalignments are identified and referred to our Group Government Relations and Industry Affairs team for review. Where any divergence persists, and is of a material misalignment with our own view, Woolworths Group will review our membership, evaluating that misalignment with the wider benefits of membership of that industry association. • On an annual basis (at the time of membership renewal) Woolworths Group has begun reviewing its key industry association memberships to ensure alignment with our key areas of policy interest. This includes a focus on advocacy activities related to climate change and Woolworths Group’s 2020 commitments on sustainability. BUSINESS COUNCIL OF AUSTRALIA AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRY GROUP Involvement Member / Committee / Member / Working Groups Working Groups Core Activity Consider public policy in relation to Consider public policy in relation economy‑wide issues impacting the to economy‑wide issues impacting nation and businesses, including energy the nation and businesses, including policy, tax policy and indigenous affairs workplace relations, data policy and energy policy Contribution • Membership fee • Membership fee • Non‑financial contributions to • Technical advice on key policy issues projects of strategic relevance eg. Strong Australia campaign 89 Glossary WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 TERM MEANING Carbon dioxide equivalent A standard measure used to compare the emissions from various greenhouse gases (CO2‑e) based on their global warming potential. For example, one tonne of methane emissions is equivalent to 21 tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions. EBIT Earnings Before Interest and Tax – total earnings before provisions are deducted. This measures a company’s performance and is often used in preference to net profit 1 PERFORMANCE as it excludes the effects of borrowings and tax benefits and adjustments. HIGHLIGHTS Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) FSC is an independent, not‑for‑profit organisation which promotes responsible management of the world’s forests. Refer to fsc.org or fscaustralia.org.au MWh Megawatt hours is a unit of measurement for electricity use, referring to the amount of electricity needed to supply power to 1,000 homes for one hour. 2 National Greenhouse and Energy NGER establishes a national framework for Australian corporations to report greenhouse PEOPLE Reporting Act 2007 (NGER) gas emissions, reductions, removals and offsets, and energy consumption and production. Refer to climatechange.gov.au/reporting/publications 3 Scope 1 emissions Direct greenhouse gas emissions from sources owned or controlled by the company, such as combustion facilities (e.g. generators) and combustion of fuels in company‑owned or company‑controlled transport (e.g. cars and trucks). PLANET Scope 2 emissions Indirect greenhouse gas emissions from the generation of purchased electricity, heat, cooling or steam. Purchased electricity is defined as electricity that is bought or otherwise brought into the organisational boundary of the entity. Scope 3 emissions Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions that are a consequence of a company’s activities, but that arise from sources that other entities own or control. Scope 3, like 4 PROSPERITY Scope 2, is a category of indirect emissions and covers all other indirect emissions from sources that are not owned or controlled by a company, but that occur as a result of its activities. Examples include emissions from waste disposal to landfill. Sustainable Development Goals 17 global goals set by the United Nations in 2015 to define global sustainable development 5 (SDG) priorities and aspirations for the planet Total Recordable Injury (TRI) and A Total Recordable Injury (TRIFR) is the sum of the total number of employee fatalities, SUSTAINABILITY Total Recorable Injury Frequency lost time injuries, restricted work injuries or medical treatment injuries per million Rate (TRIFR) hours worked METRICS 90 United Nations Global Compact PRINCIPLES ACTIONS PAGE Human Rights Principle 1 Protection of Human Rights Responsible Sourcing Program 50–61 Principle 2 No Complicity in Human Rights Abuse Responsible Sourcing Program 50–61 Labour Principle 3 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Responsible Sourcing Program 50–61 Freedom of association and union engagement 77 Principle 4 Elimination of Forced and Compulsory Labour Responsible Sourcing Program 50–61 Principle 5 Abolition of Child Labour Responsible Sourcing Program 50–61 Principle 6 Elimination of Discrimination Diversity and equal opportunity 12–19, 22–25 Environment Principle 7 Precautionary Approach No explicit reference to precautionary approach Approach to risk management 85 Principle 8 Environmental Responsibility Planet 26–45 Principle 9 Environmentally Friendly Technologies Techonology addressing climate change, water 26–45 conservation, transport and packaging Anti‑Corruption Principle 10 Work against Corruption Anti‑corruption 85 91 Global Reporting Initiative WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 DISCLOSURE NUMBER DISCLOSURE TITLE REFERENCE GENERAL DISCLOSURES 102‑1 Name of the organization Front cover 102‑2 Activities, brands, products, and services 2019 annual report 102‑3 Location of headquarters Inside back cover 1 102‑4 Location of operations Contents PERFORMANCE 102‑5 Ownership and legal form 2019 annual report 102‑6 Markets served 2019 annual report HIGHLIGHTS 102‑7 Scale of the organization 2019 annual report 102‑8 102‑9 Information on employees and other workers Supply chain 76–84 48–49, 50–51 2 102‑10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 2019 annual report PEOPLE 102‑11 Precautionary Principle or approach GRI Index 102‑12 External initiatives 10–25, 26–45, 46–73,85,90 3 102‑13 Membership of associations 88 102‑14 Statement from senior decision‑maker 2 PLANET 102‑16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 3 102‑18 Governance structure 2019 annual report, GRI Index 102‑40 List of stakeholder groups 85–87 102‑41 Collective bargaining agreements 77 102‑42 102‑43 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Approach to stakeholder engagement 86–87 85,86–87 4 PROSPERITY 102‑44 Key topics and concerns raised 85,86–87 102‑45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 2019 annual report 102‑46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 85, GRI Index 102‑47 102‑48 List of material topics Restatements of information 86–87 GRI Index 5 SUSTAINABILITY 102‑49 Changes in reporting GRI Index 102‑50 Reporting period Contents 102‑51 Date of most recent report June 2018 METRICS 102‑52 Reporting cycle Annual 102‑53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 97 102‑54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards GRI Index 102‑55 GRI content index 91–93, GRI Index 102‑56 External assurance 94–96 MANAGEMENT APPROACH 103‑1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 86–87. 10–25, 26–45, 46–73 103‑2 The management approach and its components 3, 86–87, 85, GRI Index 103‑3 Evaluation of the management approach 2019 annual report, 10–25, 26–45, 46–73, 85 92 Global Reporting Initiative (continued) DISCLOSURE NUMBER DISCLOSURE TITLE REFERENCE ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 201‑1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 2019 annual report ANTI‑CORRUPTION 205‑3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken GRI Index ANTI‑COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR 206‑1 Legal actions for anti‑competitive behavior, anti‑trust, and monopoly GRI Index practices ENERGY 302‑1 Energy consumption within the organization 26–45, 74–75, GRI Index 302‑2 Energy consumption outside of the organization 26–45, 74–75, GRI Index 302‑3 Energy intensity 26–45, 74–75, GRI Index 302‑4 Reduction of energy consumption 26–45, 74–75, GRI Index EMISSIONS 305‑1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 26–45, 74–75, GRI Index 305‑2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 26–45, 74–75, GRI Index 305‑3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 26–45, 74–75, GRI Index 305‑4 GHG emissions intensity 26–45, 74–75, GRI Index 305‑5 Reduction of GHG emissions 26–45, 74–75, GRI Index EFFLUENTS AND WASTE 306‑2 Waste by type and disposal method 28–31, 75, GRI Index ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE 307‑1 Non‑compliance with environmental laws and regulations GRI Index EMPLOYMENT 401‑1 New employee hires and employee turnover 78–79 401‑3 Parental leave 79, GRI Index LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS 402‑1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes GRI Index OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 403‑1 Occupational health and safety management system 80, GRI Index 403‑2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation GRI Index 403‑3 Occupational health services GRI Index 403‑4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on occupational GRI Index health and safety 403‑5 Worker training on occupational health and safety GRI Index 403‑6 Promotion of worker health GRI Index 403‑7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts directly GRI Index linked by business relationships 403‑8 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety management system 80 403‑9 Work‑related injuries 20–21, 80–82 GRI Index 403‑10 Work‑related ill health 83, GRI Index 93 WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 DISCLOSURE NUMBER DISCLOSURE TITLE REFERENCE TRAINING AND EDUCATION 404‑2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 14 DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 405‑1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 76–79 1 PERFORMANCE 405‑2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 76 NON‑DISCRIMINATION 406‑1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 76, GRI Index HIGHLIGHTS FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING 407‑1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at risk 50–61, 77, GRI Index 2 CHILD LABOR PEOPLE 408‑1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor 50–61, GRI Index FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR 409‑1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or 50–61, GRI Index compulsory labor HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT 3 412‑1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or 50–61, 84, GRI Index PLANET impact assessments PUBLIC POLICY 415‑1 Political contributions 85 CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY 4 PROSPERITY 416‑2 Incidents of non‑compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of GRI Index products and services MARKETING AND LABELING 417‑1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling GRI Index CUSTOMER PRIVACY 418‑1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and 85, GRI Index 5 SUSTAINABILITY losses of customer data METRICS 94 Assurance report Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu ABN 74 490 121 060 Grosvenor Place 225 George Street Sydney NSW 2000 PO Box N250 Grosvenor Place Sydney NSW 1220 Australia Tel: +61 8 9365 7000 Fax: +61 2 9322 7001 LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT ON THE 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT TO THE DIRECTORS OF WOOLWORTHS GROUP LIMITED We have undertaken a limited assurance engagement relating to the application of Global Reporting Initiative (‘GRI’) information and other criteria contained in Woolworths Group Limited’s (‘Woolworths’) 2019 Sustainability Report as detailed in the table below (the ‘Subject Matter’). SUBJECT MATTER AND REPORTING CRITERIA The Subject Matter and Reporting Criteria for our limited assurance engagement for the year ended 30 June 2019 is as follows: SUBJECT MATTER REPORTING CRITERIA GRI Standards Disclosures GRI Standards Disclosures prepared in accordance with the ‘Core’ GRI Standards and related information, requirements of the GRI Standards as set out in the GRI Index on publicly available at GRI’s global website pages 91 to 93 of the 2019 Sustainability Report at www.globalreporting.com. Selected Indicator Disclosures The following selected Sustainability Performance Indicators for 2019 included Relevant GRI Standards and Woolworths’ within the 2019 Sustainability Report for the specific standard disclosure definitions, and approaches as described in requirements of the GRI Standards: the GRI Index on pages 91 to 93 of the 2019 Sustainability Report and on Woolworths’ • Energy (302‑1, 302‑2, 302‑3 and 302‑4) on page 92 of the 2019 website at www.woolworthsgroup.com.au. Sustainability Report • Emissions (305‑1, 305‑2, 305‑3, 305‑4 and 305‑5) on page 92 of the 2019 Sustainability Report • Effluents and waste (306‑2) on page 92 of the 2019 Sustainability Report • Employment (401‑1 and 401‑3) on page 92 of the 2019 Sustainability Report • Occupational Health & Safety (403‑2 and 403‑9) on page 92 of the 2019 Sustainability Report • Non‑discrimination (406‑1) on page 93 of the 2019 Sustainability Report Sustainability Targets The following 2019 performance data included within Woolworths’ Woolworths’ definitions, and approaches Sustainability Targets and commitments as contained in the People, as described in the People, Planet and Planet and Prosperity sections within the 2019 Sustainability Report: Prosperity sections of Woolworths’ 2019 • People Sustainability Report and on Woolworths website at www.woolworthsgroup.com.au. – ‘Total team members’, on page 10 of the 2019 Sustainability Report – 'Successful applicants to the Refugee Program’ on page 14 of the 2019 Sustainability Report Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation. Member of Deloitte Asia Pacific Limited and the Deloitte Network. 95 WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUBJECT MATTER REPORTING CRITERIA Sustainability Targets (continued) • Planet – ‘Food saved for meals / Total food relief diverted to people in need’ on page 29 and page 75 of the 2019 Sustainability Report – ‘Stores with Transcritical or waterloop systems’ on page 26 and page 45 of the 2019 Sustainability Report – ‘Solar power generated’ on page 26 the 2019 Sustainability Report 1 • Prosperity PERFORMANCE – ‘Own brand products undergone a nutritional renovations’ on page 46 and 73 of the 2019 Sustainability Report HIGHLIGHTS – ‘Woolworths own brand products with a health star rating’ on 2 page 72 of the 2019 Sustainability Report – ‘Cash donations’ on page 46 and 62 of the 2019 Sustainability Report RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE DIRECTORS PEOPLE The Directors of Woolworths are responsible for: • Ensuring that the Subject Matter is properly prepared and presented in accordance with the Reporting Criteria • Confirming the measurement or evaluation of the underlying subject matter against the applicable criteria, including that all relevant matters are reflected in the subject matter information; and • Designing establishing and maintaining internal controls relevant to ensure that the Subject Matter is properly prepared and 3 presented in accordance with the Reporting Criteria It is our understanding that Woolworths intends to electronically present the Subject Matter, including our limited assurance PLANET report thereon, on its internet website. Responsibility for the electronic presentation of the Subject Matter, including our limited assurance report thereon, on Woolworths’ website is that of the Directors of the Woolworths. The security and controls over information on the web site should be addressed by Woolworths to maintain the integrity of the data presented. The 4 examination of the controls over the electronic presentation of the Subject Matter and our limited assurance report thereon on Woolworths’ website is beyond the scope of our limited assurance engagement. PROSPERITY OUR INDEPENDENCE AND QUALITY CONTROL We have complied with the relevant ethical requirements relating to assurance engagements, which is founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour. The firm applies Auditing Standard ASQC 1, and accordingly Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. 5 SUSTAINABILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITIES Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on the Subject Matter based on the procedures we have METRICS performed and the evidence we have obtained. We conducted our procedures in accordance with Australian Standards on Assurance Engagements ASAE 3000 ‘Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information’ (ASAE 3000), issued by the Australian Auditing and Assurance Standards Board in order to express a conclusion whether, based on the procedures performed and the evidence obtained, anything has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Subject Matter has not been reported, in all material respects, in accordance with the Reporting Criteria. That standard requires that we plan and perform this engagement to obtain limited assurance about whether the Subject Matter is free from material misstatement. A limited assurance engagement in accordance with ASAE 3000 involves identifying areas where a material misstatement of the Subject Matter information is likely to arise, addressing the areas identified and considering the process used to prepare the Subject Matter. A limited assurance engagement is substantially less in scope than a reasonable assurance engagement in relation to both the risk assessment procedures, including an understanding of internal control, and the procedures performed in response to the assessed risks. The procedures that we performed were based on our professional judgement and included: • A review of Woolworths’ processes relating to stakeholder identification, engagement and responsiveness, including an assessment of stakeholder engagement outcomes and how this process and the outcomes have been presented in the 2019 Sustainability Report. • A review of Woolworths’ process to identify and determine material issues to be included in the 2019 Sustainability Report with examination of underlying assessments and evidence on a sample basis. 96 Assurance report (continued) • Interviews with a selection of Woolworths’ executives and senior management, including Woolworths’ Sustainability management team concerning the overall governance structure, corporate sustainability strategy and policies used for managing and reporting sustainability performance across the business. • In respect of the selected Sustainability Performance Indicators and Sustainability Targets: – Interviews with a selection of Woolworths’ management responsible for the Sustainability Targets and Selected Indicator Data to understand the compilation and review processes. – Applying analytical and other review procedures including assessing relationships between the reported information and other financial and non‑financial data. – Examination of evidence for a small number of transactions or events. – Analysing and inspecting on a sample basis, the key systems, processes and procedures and controls relating to the collation, validation, presentation and approval process of the information included in the Report. – Reviewing underlying evidence on a sample basis to corroborate that the information is prepared and reported in line with the relevant Reporting Criteria. • Comparison of the content of Woolworths’ 2019 Sustainability Report against the criteria for a GRI self‑declaration. The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature and timing from, and are less in extent than for, a reasonable assurance engagement. Consequently, the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had we performed a reasonable assurance engagement. Accordingly, we do not express a reasonable assurance opinion about whether Woolworths’ subject matter has been prepared, in all material respects with the criteria. INHERENT LIMITATIONS Non‑financial information, including the Subject Matter may be subject to more inherent limitations than financial information, given both its nature and the methods used for determining, calculating and sampling or estimating such information. Qualitative interpretations of relevance, materiality and the accuracy of data are subject to individual assumptions and judgements. The Subject Matter should be read in the context of Woolworths’ Reporting Criteria as set out in the 2019 Sustainability Report. Additionally, non‑financial data may be subject to more inherent limitations than financial data, given both its nature and the methods used for determining, calculating and sampling or estimating such data. USE OF OUR REPORT Our assurance report has been prepared solely for the Directors of Woolworths’. We disclaim any assumption of responsibility for any reliance on this report or on the Subject Matter to which it relates, to any person other than the directors of Woolworths or for any purpose other than that for which it was prepared. MATTERS RELATING TO ELECTRONIC PRESENTATION OF INFORMATION Our limited assurance engagement included web‑based information that was available via web links as of the date of this statement. We provide no assurance over changes to the content of the Report after the date of this assurance statement. LIMITED ASSURANCE CONCLUSION Based on the procedures performed and the evidence we have obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that Woolworths’: • GRI Standards Disclosures as set out in the GRI Index, have not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the requirements of the GRI Standards; • Selected Indicator Disclosures has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the specific standard disclosure requirements of the relevant GRI Standards and Woolworths’ definitions, and approaches as described in the GRI Index; and • Sustainability Targets data, has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Woolworths’ definitions, and approaches as described in the People, Planet and Prosperity section of Woolworths’ 2019 Sustainability report referenced in the Subject Matter table above. DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU Paul Dobson Partner Sydney, 29 August 2019 Company directory REGISTERED OFFICE 1 Woolworths Way Bella Vista NSW 2153 Tel: (02) 8885 0000 Web: www.woolworthsgroup.com.au AUDITOR Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu 225 George Street Sydney NSW 2000 Tel: (02) 9322 7000 Web: www.deloitte.com.au WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY Alex Holt General Manager, Quality, Health & Sustainability Fiona Walmsley Senior Manager, Group Sustainability Designed and produced by ArmstrongQ ArmstrongQ.com.au We are con stantly inn ovating to meet changing needs. We look for ways to improve every day – be tt er for our custom ers team and comm unities. We create better t � s bo t h t he retail I es an d experien c nces we ie t he exper ssible f or m ake po s� lives. cust om er experiences together for a better tomorrow. We work seamlessly as on e team  within the Group an d in part nership with ot hers. e in We believ er fut ure be tt creat in g arat ions t o c om e. f or gen e
