UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATIONS [[ ON PROGRESS 2019 |Page1 Message from the CEO I am pleased to confirm that United Projects for Aviation Services Company K.S.C.P. (UPAC), for the sixth consecutive year, hereby reaffirms its support of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment, and Anti-Corruption. UPAC is committed to continuing its participation and support in each of these areas, and for the ultimate benefit of its stakeholders, shareholders and the wider community. Within this 2019 Communication on Progress (COP) report, we list our latest achievements, policies, and performance with regards to the ethics and values upheld by the UN Global Compact Principles. Achievements during 2019 include: • Participation in various community activities to support humanitarian issues locally and worldwide. • Expansion in scope of various activates within Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) to include the support to Kuwait Red Crescent and UNICEF. • Reem Mall, one of UPAC’s projects based in Abu Dhabi, UAE, has been awarded the Estidama 2 Pearl Design Rating by the Abu Dhabi Urban Planning Council (UPC). • Recognitions of the longest serving employees, completing 15 years of dedicated service with the Company. • Execution of the Cleaning Activity Procedure and Tenants Manual. • Protection of the environment by controlling Company waste and electricity consumption. • Application of Company’s health and safety rules and regulations to its ongoing projects. • Re-Certification of Quality Management System ISO 9001:2008. • Re-Certification of the Occupational Health and Safety Management System OHSAS 18001. • Re-Certification of the Environmental Management Systems EMS 14001 • Finalization of existing HR policies and procedures manuals in order to ensure they are in line with the Company’s Corporate Governance Framework. • Finalization of the compensation and benefits structure and grading system in line with updated HR policies and procedures. • Completion of more than 30 technical and management training programs across departments. In this annual COP report, UPAC presents an overview of its commitment to the ten principles set out in the UN Global Compact. This report is compiled in order to present the Company’s achievements to date in line with its business strategy, work culture and daily operations. UPAC continues to uphold these principles as well as its obligation to consistently and responsibly report and communicate its annual progress to its stakeholders. Best Regards, Nadia Akil CEO and Vice Chairperson I Page 2 Table of Contents Message from the CEO .............................................................................. 2 Human Rights Principles ........................................................................... 4 Labour Principles ....................................................................................... 8 Environment Principles ............................................................................ 12 Anti-Corruption Principles ....................................................................... 16 Corporate Social Responsibility ............................................................... 20 UPAC’s Commitment ................................................................................ 28 I Page 3 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPALS I Page 4 Principle 1 examination to achieve certification. Upon completion Businesses should support and respect the protection of the course, an electronic certificate is generated for of internationally proclaimed human rights. employee and corporate records are updated accordingly. Principle 2 Make sure they are not complicit in human rights In 2019, eleven employees joined UPAC, and their abuses. training completion ratio for online training during the year was recorded as follows: UPAC is committed to support and respect proclaimed human rights and does not get involved in any activity Online Trainings related to human rights abuses. UPAC employees are required to participate in mandatory Ethics and Dec-19 96% Compliance training courses during the first six months of employment. The training is conducted using Sep-19 79% examples and other real situations that are designed to Jun-19 57% help in the understanding of model behavior. Jan-19 22% Participants must complete an online examination Completion % by employees designed to ensure an understanding of good business practices. The system provides the participant with an option to listen to the live conversation or read the Induction and Orientation script of the situation. Newly joined employees are introduced to UPAC During 2019, UPAC’s management implemented a new through a comprehensive orientation program. The set of training courses in addition to the basic training standard orientation program covers the following: provided upon joining. The below courses are the new set of training courses allocated to employees, both o UPAC Vision, Values and Services managers and non-managers. o UPAC Organizational Structure o Code of Business Ethics and Conduct o Antitrust o HR Department Scope of Work o Code of Business Ethics o Introduction for Abroad Hires o Conflicts of Interest o Contact details for key persons o Combating Bribery in Business o Health and Safety Procedures o Global Data Protection o Residency information o FCPA Anti-Bribery o Working Hours, Leave and Official Holidays o Insider Trading o Performance Review Process on E-forms o Government Procurement o Dress Code o Protecting Human Rights in the Supply Chain o Job Description o UK and EU Competition Law o Grievance and Disciplinary System o Whistleblowing: Raising Concerns o Orientation to the respective Department o Preventing Sexual Harassment o Privacy and Data Protection Training and Development o Antitrust: Careful Communication with Competitors (New) The orientation process provides the employee with o Code of Conduct: Best Practices (New) information related to the organization’s structure, o Recognizing and Avoiding Bribery (New) direct reporting access, whistleblowing channels, as o Human Rights (New) well as a brief on the Grievance and Disciplinary Policy. As per the Orientation Training and Development The ‘Human Rights” and “Code of Conduct: Best Policy, employees shall receive the required Practices” training courses are now required to be orientation in order to understand their rights and completed upon joining. duties. Orientation is provided in both languages, Participation is conducted through e-learning on an Arabic and English. New recruits are informed of their individual basis, and employees must pass the online rights in both Arabic and English languages. Contracts I Page 5 defining salary and benefits are issued to each UPAC carefully screens all employees prior to employee in three copies; one copy for UPAC, one for employment to ensure the recruitment of applicants the employee and one provided to The Public Authority above the age of 18. Employment contracts clearly for Manpower, a Kuwait government entity. define employee entitlements, including salary, benefits, annual leave, vacations, and indemnity. The As part of our recruitment and employee orientation annual incentives are linked to performance appraisal training, new recruits are provided with the employee review and it is part of UPAC’s remuneration packages handbook that includes an overview of the Company’s for all its employees. ethical practices. Employee handbook has been revised during 2019 to include additional information related The religious beliefs and practices are respected and to annual leave process and end of service calculation. accepted within the organization, whereby sufficient UPAC is committed to paying salaries by the 25th of time is given for prayer during working hours. During each month, and are based on an approved grading Ramadan, working hours are reduced by two (2) hours system that defines the titles, basic pay, as well as a day as per the Kuwait Labour Law and all relevant allowances and benefits for each employee. religious holidays are respected. During 2019, the Succession Plan and Career Work-Life Balance Development Policy have been updated and approved. The Succession Plan aims to ensure the timely Over the course of 2019, UPAC organized two availability of a diverse and experienced employee employee-focused events intended to build the bonds pool to fulfill key job requirements as and when between UPAC’s team as well as to recognize their required. All members of the management team, as contributions to the Company. well as direct line supervisors, are responsible for the implementation of the Career Development Policy. Local and International Recruitment For local and international recruitment, UPAC covers all relevant recruitment fees, visa fees, airfare, travel, medical as well as any other applicable fees for all employees. Technical employees are supplied with six (6) complete sets of Company uniforms, two (2) pairs of safety shoes, winter weather clothing and jobrelated Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). The first event was UPAC’s Iftar Family Gathering that took place in June 2019 for all staff members and their UPAC’s policy states that all employees must retain families. The second event was an employee Family their own passports. All employees are recruited based Outing which took place in October 2019. Both events on the Kuwait Labour Law practices considering their took place at the Palms Hotel & Spa, Kuwait. right for annual leave and sick leave pay. Service period indemnity is paid as per the Kuwait Labour Law. The recruitment processes continually support the establishment of a diverse workforce and ensure that all employees and employment applicants are treated fairly and as per the Equal Employment Opportunity Policy. UPAC is committed to continue and contract with only those recruitment agencies that refrain from charging fees to applicants and that refuse to accept applicants under the age of eighteen (18). Any associated recruitment costs are fully covered by UPAC. UPAC is also committed to recruit applicants from abroad through the official channels stated by local embassies and as per the Kuwait Labour Law. I Page 6 During the Iftar Family Gathering, attending employees and their families enjoyed a pleasant atmosphere with the wider UPAC team where they were entertained by an exciting raffle draw. The event marked Saturday 26th October 2019, where employees and their family members enjoyed various entertainment activities. During the open day, everyone had the opportunity to enjoy access to various swimming pools and other fun water activities along with several entertainment areas for kids and adults, in addition to sports facilities available at the hotel. Employees who could not attend the Iftar due to work conflicts were provided with an open buffet station near their working location to enjoy an Iftar meal. In addition, employees on duty during the whole month Employees enjoyed the snacks throughout the day and of Ramadan were provided with daily Iftar meals. the open buffet dinner by 6:00 pm at Sea Breeze Ballroom. UPAC’s employee family outing at the Palms Hotel & Spa, welcomed over 145 employees and their families to celebrate the Company’s successes. This is the fourth annual open day event and it is UPAC’s way to extend thanks and appreciation to employees. I Page 7 LABOUR PRINCIPLES I Page 8 Principle 3 Revision of Policies and Procedures Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective UPAC revised the Human Resources Policies and bargaining. Procedures, including the Equal Employment Opportunity Policy to ensure compliance with the Principle 4 regulations issued by the Capital Markets Authority The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory (CMA) in relation to the overall Corporate Governance labour. Framework. The Human Resources policies have been signed off in 2015 and have since been reviewed, Principle 5 updated and enhanced every two years. The last The effective abolition of child labour. review has been approved in 2018. Principle 6 UPAC signed off the Finance Department Policies and The elimination of discrimination in respect of Procedures that address the necessary relevant employment and occupation. International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) to UPAC is an Equal Opportunity Employer and prohibits ensure alignment of both local and international laws discrimination and harassment of any kind. UPAC is and to ensure stronger financial control. committed to the principle of equal employment opportunities for all employees as well as providing • Accounts Payables them with a secure work environment free of any form • Accounts Receivable and Bad Debts Process of discrimination or harassment. The Company also • Cash Management and Bank Reconciliation continues to enhance its existing policies and • External Audit Process procedures throughout the year. • Fixed Assets • Inventory The mandatory Code of Business Ethics E-Learning • Petty Cash Process training course is assigned to raise awareness of the • Revenue Recognition Equal Employment Opportunity and prevention of • Management of Information Reporting harassment. UPAC follows a zero-tolerance policy with • Annual Budgeting Process regards to a breach of conduct; hence employees must attend these courses electronically and are required to During 2019, the Operations Department signed off pass the courses to ensure compliance. new procedures that control the supporting activities at Kuwait International Airport. The new procedures All employment decisions at UPAC are based on include: business needs, job requirements and individual qualifications, without regard to race, color, religion or Cleaning Activity Procedure. belief, national or ethnic origin, gender, age, disability, The Cleaning Activity Procedure aims to state the or any other status protected by the laws or approved policy and procedure to control the cleaning regulations. UPAC does not tolerate discrimination, activities within Kuwait International Airport. It defines harassment, inhumane treatment, including any form the expected level and quality of the deliverables, in of forced labour, physical punishment or any other addition to the level of performance of the cleaning type of abuse. UPAC promotes workplace equality and employees. The document similarly states the human seeks to eliminate all forms of discrimination. rights laws and regulations that should be followed. UPAC supports women in the workplace and takes the Tenants Manual necessary measures to understand their needs while The Tenants Manual aims to define the Tenant and seeking to actively support their career paths by landlord (UPAC) obligations and rights. The document promoting a healthy work-life balance. By the end of is detailed enough to include all aspects of 2019, UPAC’s team consists of 95 employees, two out maintenance and preventive maintenance liabilities on of its seven senior executives are females; this reflects both parties. the value the Company places on their experience and knowledge. I Page 9 Collective bargaining UPAC is committed to conduct its business fairly and in full compliance with all applicable laws and Collective bargaining is not common practice in the regulations. UPAC strives to implement the highest State of Kuwait, and the private sector labour laws limit standards of business conduct and ethics both the scope of collective bargaining for employees; internally within the organization, as well as externally however, the laws prohibit anti-union discrimination with respect to its customers, suppliers and other and employer interference with union functions. related third parties. That being said, it is crucial that all employees uphold these ethical standards and Employees are free to participate in the political comply with such regulations when conducting process in their private capacity provided it does not business. constitute a breach of the principles set out in the Code of Business Ethics and Conduct. During 2019, UPAC commemorated International Workers Day (falls on 1 May every year) by organizing As per the approved Corporate Governance an honorary celebration to recognize the long servicing Framework and HR policies; employees are provided employees who completed 15 years of dedicated with various channels by which to express their service with UPAC. opinions, provide feedback, or raise concerns. We are expanding the channels for employees to speak about their grievances and concerns to management in a formal structure. UPAC fosters an honest, fair, and transparent work environment, accordingly the Company provides the below communication channels to allow employees to voice their concerns accordingly and in complete confidentiality: UPAC CEO presented the fourteen longest-serving • UPAC Customer Complaint Email employees with an eight grams’ golden coin along with customer.feedback@upac.com.kw a plaque of appreciation in recognition of their • UPAC Whistleblowing Email commitment, contributions and dedication towards whistleblowing@upac.com.kw the Company over the years. During the ceremony, • UPAC Suggestion Box several employees graciously shared some of their most memorable moments over the course of their journey with UPAC. At UPAC, the promotions and increments are based on performance, fulfilling certain job requirements as well as the employees’ qualifications. During 2019, six employees were promoted between the different levels within UPAC climbing the organizational ladder based on their performance. Senior Managment Management Level level Professional 3 Level 5 Supprt Level Emloyees 17 Employees 70 employees employees I P a g e 10 Training and Development # of Training Description Participants During 2019, UPAC invested more than USD 30,000 in Electrical Power distribution and Backtraining and development training programs. The 9 Up investment has been coordinated with international entities to ensure the provision of quality assured Root Cause Analysis (QHSE) 9 programs. This investment has been instrumental in developing the skills and competencies for employees Fire Alarm and Fire Fighting Systems 10 at all levels in the organization. Generators and power Back-Ups (QMS) 8 A structured, e-learning and on-job training are an Hazard Identification and Risk ongoing process at UPAC, and in 2019 the Company 37 Assessment (HIRA) provided the below intensive training programs covering the following topics: Carpentry and Masonry works (QMS) 11 Recognizing and Avoiding Bribery # of 5 Training Description (e-learning) Participants Code of Conduct: Best Practices 5 The Emotional Intelligence Program 1 (e-learning) Science, Technology, and Strategic 1 Business Transformation Number of Training Diversity Leading Teams for Emerging Leaders 1 in 2019 Spark a Culture of Innovation 1 On-Job Trainings 11 Group Training: Team Building Training 24 Internal ISO 45001:2018 OHSMS Lead Auditor Trainings 2 training (Updated standard) 4 External Trainings QMS Auditor Lead Auditor Training 2 Online Training 8 3 International Financial Reporting 1 Standards IFRS Online Performance Review Cycle Orientation 25 Orientation: Procurement Process 25 Persentage of Training Across the Structure in 2019 Service excellence (QMS) 27 Support MS Word / MS Outlook / MS Excel 21 Level 55% Certified First Aid Trainer 5 Top Management Personal Protective Equipment (HSE) 9 27% Professional Level 18% Hand and Power Tools Safety (HSE) 10 Waste Management (EMS) 36 SKIDATA Parking System / Lector Vision 6 / Plate Tech Software Electrical and Electronic Control System 9 and Reading System Drawings I P a g e 11 ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLES I P a g e 12 Principle 7 From the outset, Reem Mall exceeded the minimum Businesses should support a precautionary approach mandatory sustainable design. The walls, roof, and to environmental challenges. glazing have been carefully studied and designed with high-efficient insulation and high-performance Principle 8 materials, coupled with high-efficiency air conditioning Undertake initiatives to promote greater and lighting systems. environmental responsibility. Water consumption has been another key Principle 9 consideration. To reduce the consumption of potable Encourage the development and diffusion of water in the building, efficient water irrigation systems environmentally friendly technologies. and appliances have been incorporated into the design. Equally, robust sustainability measures have ENVIRONMENT been applied to the construction phase since 2016. A minimum of 70% of the waste generated on-site is UPAC has pledged to continue working with various recycled, and 20% of materials procured from sources environmentally friendly organizations and promote within 500 km of the site, reducing the traveling environmental activities to further its commitment and distance and related air pollution. support of the environment. Since the launch of the ‘Go-Green’ program in 2014, UPAC continues to uphold and expand the program As a responsible Company operating in Kuwait, UPAC day by day. In 2019, the Company renewed the aims at reducing its overall environmental impact and contract with United Waste Management Company to increasing its efforts in promoting various socially recycle all types of paper in UPAC. responsible activities. For plastic recycling, UPAC has been working with The expansion of the environmental aspect included Omniya Plastic Recycling Company since 2016 to UPAC’s project in Abu Dhabi Reem Mall. Reem Mall collect all types of plastic waste. Both companies are has been awarded the Estidama 2 Pearl Design Rating committed to recycling schedules on a weekly basis. by the Abu Dhabi Urban Planning Council (UPC). The scope of recycling plastic waste has been expanded Estidama is an initiative developed and promoted by to include UPAC projects. By the begging of this year, the UPC for large-scale sustainable urban Discovery Management has been instructed to collect developments. It seeks to promote thoughtful and the plastic waste generated by daily visitors to be responsible development through the creation of a recycled with Omniya Plastic Recycling Company. The balanced society based on four equal pillars of below diagram represents the total recycled material sustainability: environmental, economic, social and from 2017 until 2019. (As of 1st November 2019) cultural. Recycled Material 2017 2019 KG 2500 2300 2017 2000 2018 1500 2019 940 1000 820 500 265 360 370 0 Plastic Paper I P a g e 13 UPAC expanded its scope of environmental awareness The award is presented monthly to a worker in to include all employees in its environmental recognition for showing outstanding commitment to initiatives. The HR Department organized six sessions health and safety standards, or for directly contributing in both Arabic and English languages to increase to the health and safety of their colleagues. awareness of practices that can affect the environment and how to change those practices. UPAC regularly encourages all employees to save energy and protect the environment by applying the following: • Spreading awareness about the importance of The Reem Mall Health and Safety Awards is a platform protecting the environment and conserving that showcases the importance of safe building energy. practices to the contractors, consultants, Company • Sharing reminder memos to switch off all employees and site workers involved in delivering the electronics (including lights, laptops, PCs and other $1.2 billion project. electronics) on a daily basis at the end of each working day. • Verbally addressing such issues individually to employees. Furthermore, all employees are provided with the appropriate PPE such as overalls, gloves, eyeglasses, hearing protection, reflective vests, and safety shoes to ensure that anyone coming into contact with hazardous materials is protected. UPAC conducts continuous training programs to ensure adequate protection to help prevent any hazardous incidents. In line with our commitment to promote industryleading health and safety standards, Al Farwaniya Property Developments, the developer behind Abu Dhabi’s Reem Mall (one of UPAC projects), launched a unique awards program for its staff and contractors “Health and Safety Awards”. I P a g e 14 This year’s Earth Day activity marks up a part of a wider range of socially responsible initiatives dedicated solely to the environment. UPAC marked Earth Day 2019 by hosting Earth Day activities for the fourth consecutive year. UPAC hosted a group of 28 junior students from Kuwait English School (KES) where a screening of environmental documentaries was viewed, covering key topics including environmental preservation, water conservation and the importance of agriculture. The program aimed at increasing awareness of following a healthy lifestyle to lose weight. The program encourages participants to walk and practice sports to reduce their weight and have a better lifestyle. UPAC has pledged to continue working with various environmentally friendly organizations to further its commitment and support towards the environment. As a responsible Company operating in Kuwait, UPAC aims at reducing its environmental impact and increasing its efforts in promoting various CSR Five UPAC volunteers distributed 120 plants to the initiatives. students, which were later planted in and around Discovery Mall’s garden area. UPAC also distributed By the inception of 2019, UPAC implemented a new informative flyers about Earth Day in order to increase Process Management Software “Transfora” which the awareness amongst the community. enables users to model, implement, execute, monitor and optimize their management processes such as processing employee leave, approving a contract, issuing visas or approving IT-related permissions. The system helped in increasing the productivity, efficiency and reduce the printing of papers to protect the environment. UPAC is keen to protect the environment and considering any step to enforce the concept of a green Between June and August 2019, UPAC partnered with environment. This has been demonstrated by several organizations (Public Authority for Sports, New encouraging employees to enclose “go green” Mowasat Hospital, Moageza Honey and Atyab) footnote in UPAC emails. through the sponsorship of “First Step – Lose Your Weight” program that took place in Discovery Mall. I P a g e 15 ANTICORRUPTION PRINCIPLES I P a g e 16 Principle 10: Recognizing and Avoiding Bribery Businesses should work against corruption in all its UPAC’s Code of Business Ethics and Conduct governs forms, including extortion and bribery. the conduct of employees as well as the Board of Directors. The Code is aligned with the regulatory ANTI-CORRUPTION Corporate Governance Framework. UPAC has a zero-tolerance approach to unethical During the course of 2019, and in complying with the conduct and is committed to ensuring that its Corporate Governance Framework, all five members of employees uphold the Company’s reputation. UPAC the Board of Directors attended a customized efosters honesty, integrity, and equality in all aspects of learning session by SAI Global Company which is its business and expects the same in its relationships related to: with all those with whom it conducts business. • Recognizing and Avoiding Bribery (e-learning) Code of Conduct and Business Ethics • Code of Conduct: Best Practices (e-learning) UPAC approved the Code of Business Ethics and The training was customized to the executive level to Conduct policy in order to help employees identify, address all scenarios related to the ethical business report, and resolve certain conflicts and other practices and how to recognize, address and avoid complications that may arise during the course of bribery in business. business as part of its standard review procedure. Name Description UPAC employees are required to comply with internal This course is designed to make it rules regarding the prevention of bribery and Recognizing clear that the Company prohibits corruption with interactions related to government and Avoiding bribery, including the bribery of officials and private individuals. It is also required that Bribery government or public officials, external consultants comply with the same internal anywhere it conducts business. policies as per the Corporate Governance Framework. This course is designed to provide the recipient with the UPAC’s Code of Business Ethics and Conduct mirrors Code of fundamentals of acceptable UN Global Compact Principles, which include but are Conduct: Best business practices. It outlines the not limited to conflicts of interest, insider trading, Practices principles of driving business in an external affiliations, money laundering, improper ethical way to reinforce business payments, fair dealings, gifts, meals and entertainment values. in the course of interacting with clients, suppliers, subcontractors, and competitors. UPAC commits to providing information that is up-todate, accurate and reliable. All information or data The Code is available to all employees on the Company presented to government officials or other third website and is also covered within the employee parties is up-to-date, accurate and reliable. UPAC does handbook. not make payments or other contributions to political parties, organizations or their representatives. UPAC’s induction program for new recruits educates employees on the importance of corporate ethics, UPAC and its subsidiaries are applying an approved values and business conduct. New employees are given Tendering Process which is strictly followed in all of a copy of the Code of Business Ethics and Conduct upon UPAC projects. The Tendering Process sets specific their employment and are required to sign it as criteria for the tender’s prequalification and selection acceptance and acknowledgment. of the tender winner who should meet those criteria. Calling for enveloping meeting to envelop the tenders submitted by subcontractors (including Reem Mall Project in Abu Dhabi) imposed a tight control to avoid corruption. I P a g e 17 International Accreditation Corporate Governance The principles of the Corporate Governance Framework fall within the responsibilities of the members of the Board of Directors (BOD). The BOD members are committed to implementing a proper governance system that meets the relevant regulatory requirements set by the Capital markets Authority (CMA) and other applicable regulatory bodies. UPAC’s BOD adopted a sound Corporate Governance In September 2019, UPAC has also successfully passed Framework that enhanced the overall governance the re-certification requirements for the ISO environment within the Company and that is in line 9001:2015 Quality Management Systems (QMS) by with applicable leading practices, laws and regulations. SGS Kuwait. This has been pursued through an integrated UPAC acquired the ISO 14001:2015 Environmental Corporate Governance system applied and monitored Management System (EMS) and OHSAS 18001:2007 through a set of policies, standards and internal Occupational Health and Safety Management System controls that have been adopted by the Company in certifications by Société Générale de Surveillance (SGS) line with regulatory requirements. Kuwait. Under the Corporate Governance Framework, UPAC The certificates were awarded following a stringent began implementation of an internal control system site audit of all UPAC managed facilities at the Kuwait that ensures all business transactions are checked, International Airport and in recognition of its verified and audited regularly. implementation of the environmental and safety management systems as well as its continued efforts to Risk Management Function maintain and improve its quality management standards. The Risk Management Function ensures that the Company’s overall risks are effectively identified, These certificates reflect UPAC’s commitment to managed and rectified. Risk identification includes providing the highest standard of quality, safety, and existing or potential risks. UPAC’s BOD ensures that environmental management. It furthers credits UPAC’s sufficient management resources are allocated to the position in the local and regional markets as a leading identification, assessment and the appropriate real estate and facilities management company. measures are taken related to business risks. The certificates are issued by the United Kingdom Internal Audit Functions Accreditation Service (UKAS), the sole national accreditation body recognized by the British The Internal Audit Function (IAF) plays a critical role in government. providing the BOD and Executive Management with a comprehensive view of the applied financial and operating controls. The IAF provides assurance on the effectiveness of the Internal Control, Risk Management, and Corporate Governance Framework processes within the Company. The BOD has allocated qualified resources to manage the IAF. During 2019, all financial reporting activities have been carried out through the external audit and internal audit functions, as well as through direct reporting to the BOD via the recommendations of the Board Risk and Audit Committee. I P a g e 18 The external and internal audit activities included the Board Risk and Audit Committee (BRAC) following: The Board Risk and Audit Committee (BRAC) was • Surveillance audit conducted for the ISO 9001, formed pursuant to a Board Resolution executed on OHSAS 18001, EMS 14001 standard by SGS. 28th June 2016, following the approval from the CMA • Risk Assessment Audit conducted by Protiviti to merge the Board Risk Committee and the Board Kuwait. Audit Committee. • Internal Control Audit conducted by Deloitte Kuwait The Board Risk and Audit Committee has been • Financial Audits conducted by Ernst & Young restructured in November 2017 to meet the Kuwait. requirements of the Capital Market Authority. • Internal Audits conducted by Agility Kuwait. • Corporate Social Responsibility Audit The below schedule indicates the progress of the Board conducted by Agility Kuwait. Risk and Audit Committee (BRAC) meetings as of 15th November 2019: Access to the full Corporate Governance Report for 2018 is available on the below link. Board Risk and Audit Committee (BRAC) Year Number of Meetings https://www.upac.com.kw/pdf/AnnualReports/Annua lReport-UPAC-E2.pdf 2016 3 2017 4 Board of Directors Meetings 2018 4 2019 4 The BOD held a total of six meetings during the course of 2019. All meetings are called by a formal invitation Board Nomination and Remuneration Committee in advance, in order to allow adequate time for (BNRC) members to attend. The BNRC was formed pursuant to a Board Resolution Each time a meeting is called for, a formal agenda is dated 10th November 2016. The below schedule shared with members along with all necessary indicates the progress of the Board Nomination and supporting documents prior to the meeting to allow Remuneration Committee (BNRC) meetings as of 15th members sufficient time to review. November 2019: Board Nomination and Remuneration Committee Board of Directors Meetings (BNRC) Year Number of Meetings Year Number of Meetings 2016 8 2016 1 2017 8 2017 1 2018 7 2018 2 2019 6 2019 1 In 2016, UPAC established two independent committees in order to provide an independent review function between the BOD and management. The committees seek to provide recommendations to the BOD as an independent body and as well as to monitor the effectiveness of Executive Management. I P a g e 19 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I P a g e 20 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) UPAC Organized Fun Days for Special Needs Children at Discovery Center. UPAC has always given importance to its social 20th February 2019 commitments. Being a socially responsible 14th March 2019 organization, UPAC designed and participated in 8th October 2019 various CSR initiatives throughout the year that support individuals, families, NGO’s and communities, both locally and internationally. Initiatives included volunteering, fundraising, donations, and sponsorships. Donate to Protect Children in Yemen. 3rd January – 28th February 2019 UPAC joined forces with United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund (UNICEF) to support Yemen’s children in their campaign “Donate to Protect UPAC organized varouse entertainment and fun days Children in Yemen.” for special needs children at Discovery Center. The days marked Liberation and National days’ celebrations and other events throughout the year. The fun days (20th February and 8th October) were coordinated with Al Salam Academy Nursery for Special Education, where a total of 51 special needs children enjoyed several fun activities across the center. UPAC employees volunteered two full days to entertain the children and provide the required assistance during the days. The campaign raised funds to support those Yemeni The second event took place on 14th March 2019 in children that require humanitarian and financial coordination with the Sawaedna Volunteering Group. support in order to secure basic necessities such as 25 special needs children enjoyed several fun activities food, water, and healthcare. UPAC employees were with the support of nine UPAC volunteers who spared involved in raising funds for the cause, with the no efforts to share children's joy and play. The children Company pledging to match the total amount raised. were provided with their favorite meals during the The total donation for the campaign was more than events. The fun days were coordinated with both the €680. Ministry of Social Affairs and Labour and the Ministry of Education. UPAC is keen to join campaigns driven by international organizations to help those in need. UPAC places great importance on its social responsibility and aims to continue supporting such humanitarian causes that require assistance. I P a g e 21 UPAC Hosts ‘Job Shadowing’ Workshops for INJAZ UPAC Organizes Fun Days for Kuwait’s Orphanage 19th February 2019 28th February 2019 UPAC organized a Fun Day for Kuwait’s Orphanage at Discovery Center. The event took place on 28th February 2019 to take part in the National Day celebration activities in Kuwait. The event was carried out in coordination with the Ministry of Social Affairs and Labor, who currently manage various orphanages across Kuwait. In continuation of our partnership with INJAZ Kuwait, UPAC organized a “Job Shadowing” workshop aimed to help in mentoring nearly 20 high school students from Kuwait International English School. This workshop allowed students to better define their own career paths, and academic direction, as they continue their UPAC places great importance on social responsibility studies after graduation. and its overall role in increasing social awareness and participating in the wider community. The events A total of six employees volunteered from various catered to 14 children between the ages of 4 – 12 all of departments at UPAC to share their respective work whom were given the opportunity to enjoy several experiences, department responsibilities and gave an activities across the center’s entertainment outlets, overview of the Company structure and operations. In including Tarkeeb, Play, Cozmo Kids, Paint Ball, and addition, the students were then taken on a 90 min trampoline. tour of Kuwait International Airport’s Control Room, conveyor belts and plant room to gain a greater Accompanying the children were 9 UPAC volunteers understanding of UPAC’s line of business and its who spent the day alongside the children and guided operations. them throughout the various fun activities. I P a g e 22 UPAC Celebrates Earth Day with Students at UPAC Partners with Kuwait Food Bank During Discovery Mall Ramadan 4th March 2019 5th May – 4th June 2019 UPAC joined forces with Agility to run a charitable meal program during the Holy Month of Ramadan. In coordination with the Kuwait Food Bank, nearly 30 As a responsible Company operating in Kuwait, UPAC volunteers from the Company donated their time to aims at reducing its overall environmental impact and help feed more than 10,000 individuals through a daily increasing its efforts in promoting various socially Iftar meal program and a Machla donation box responsible activities. distribution. In light of the above, UPAC organized Earth Day The campaign began on 5 May, one day before the first activities for the fourth consecutive year with the day of the Holy Month of Ramadan. Volunteers helped junior students of Kuwait English School (KES). UPAC with the packaging and distribution of the Machla hosted a group of 28 junior students where a screening boxes, which were then donated to 330 families in of environmental documentaries was viewed, covering need. The boxes contained basic food supplies, key topics including environmental preservation, water provided as a gift to cover an entire month’s worth of conservation and the importance of agriculture. necessary food items to families in need. In addition, throughout Ramadan, volunteers from UPAC helped distribute 300 Iftar meals to individuals and workers near the Omar Bin Khattab mosque in Kuwait City. These meals were distributed throughout Ramadan to those fasting and in need. Five UPAC volunteers distributed 120 plants to the students, which were later planted in and around Discovery Center’s garden area. UPAC distributed informative flyers about Earth Day to increase the awareness amongst the community. UPAC has pledged to continue working with various environmentally friendly organizations to further its commitment and support of the environment. I P a g e 23 Donate to Educate UPAC Organizes Two Blood Donation Drives 30th May 20th June 2019 Discovery Center : 1st July 2019 UPAC Head Office : 2nd July 2019 Since 2016, UPAC has supported a variety of educational charity programs with intentions to For the fifth consecutive year, and in continuation of provide education to support unprivileged students. the “Donate Blood to Save Lives” campaign, UPAC organized two blood donation drives in partnership As a continuation of this effort, UPAC has supported with Kuwait Central Blood Bank. the Kuwait Red Crescent Society (KRCS) campaign “Donate to Education”. The campaign aims to support The two blood donation drives were held between 1 – less fortunate students by providing them with the 2 July at Discovery Center and at UPAC’s head office opportunity to gain access to a basic level of education. respectively. 48 UPAC employees, as well as various walk-in visitors at Discovery Center, donated blood in support of Kuwait Central Blood Bank’s campaign. Through this campaign, UPAC’s employees were able to participate by providing support by way of cash and A total of 24 liters of blood was donated which will be non-cash donations including new school supplies such utilized to supplement emergency blood requirements as calculators, school bags, stationery, as well as books, at various government hospitals in Kuwait. Donating dictionaries, and other related school supplies. blood contributes to helping those in need of immediate transfusions following an accident, as well In terms of cash contributions, the total amount as in restoring the health of patients recovering from donated to KRCS made by employees and UPAC were illnesses. more than $600. UPAC believes that social responsibility is a vital part of any organization and within the community in which it UPAC’s blood donation drive showcases the operates. Company’s commitment towards the local community and to helping those in need. I P a g e 24 UPAC Contributes to the Indian Shelter Project for the UPAC Supports “Dialysis for Refugees” Campaign Third Year. 30th May 20th June 2019 12th November 2019 In light of UPAC’s continued efforts to uphold its social For the third year and in an effort to support responsibility, UPAC had joined forces with Agility and communities across the globe, UPAC has made sizable Kuwait Red Crescent Society (KRCS) to support the contributions to support the Indian Orthodox Syrian “Dialysis for Refugees” campaign. Church's project (a Church based in Kuwait) in building a shelter for the elderly and homeless population in Kerala, India. The campaign aimed to raise funds to support the refugees in need of financial support in order to secure The contribution will help build this three-floor shelter, renal dialysis sessions to save their lives. comprised of 25 rooms on each floor, with common facilities such as a dining hall and restrooms. Once The employees were provided with information completed, this shelter will be able to accommodate related to the renal failure disease and its implications roughly 75 residents with food and living facilities. on the patient’s life. Renal Failure affects the physical fitness of the patient and it has a dramatic impact on The project also aims at employing 20 staff who will the patient's quality of life and forces limitation on give the proper care and support to those residing in daily functions in addition to frequent hospitalization. the shelter. To date, the project has received three levels of approval from the relevant ministries and local regulatory bodies, with the expectation that construction will be completed by 2020. Hemodialysis patient requires 1 – 3 sessions per week to stay alive. The cost of one session is more than $130. UPAC employees were involved in raising funds for the cause, with the Company pledging to match the total amount raised. Agility pledged to match the donation in support for this campaign. The total donation to KRCS in support for this campaign was more than $1650. I P a g e 25 UPAC Participates in “Birds Gathering” Exhibition First Step – Lose your weight 23rd February 2019 25th June to 22nd Aug 2019 UPAC sponsored and participated for the second year UPAC accommodated the “First Step Lose Your the “Birds Gathering” exhibition organized by the Weight” campaign within Discovery Center with the “Kuwaiti Awareness Team of Birds” at the Discovery support of Public Authority for Sports, New Mowasat Center. Hospital, Moageza Honey and Atyab. The event aimed to raise awareness and educate the community about the importance of protecting and conserving wildlife, especially birds. This campaign continued for 45 days in Discovery Center and aimed at educating children about the importance of maintaining healthy diets and lifestyles, as well as the importance of daily exercise. The targeted segment from this campaign is the children between the ages of 7 – 16. Video clips and photos where projected during the event to give the visitors information related to how these birds are widely hunted for entertainment and caged for business. The most endangered bird species were also displayed in the video to spread awareness amongst the community. Organizers shared their knowledge on how birds are affected when their habitat is destroyed and how this could affect the planet. Children who participated in the program had the opportunity to weigh themselves before and after the campaign. Participants were also provided with complete health program guidance by a pediatric dietitian assigned by the Ministry of Health. Games and entertainment programs were arranged for the kids at Discovery Center. UPAC employees participated in the event. The day included presentations and exhibits covering various species of talking birds, their environmental benefits, and laws against hunting them. I P a g e 26 REEM Mall’s Health and Safety Medical Camp. UPAC Sponsored “Kids and Family Festival” October 2018 / 2019 21st March 2019 In line with its commitment to promote industryUPAC joined hands with Kuwaiti Smurfs Company and leading health and safety standards, Al Farwaniya Fit Kid Academy to celebrate Mother’s Day in Discovery Property Developments (a partnership between Center, Kuwait’s unique recreation and family Agility, UPAC, and National Real Estate Company), the entertainment center, during the Kids and Family developer behind Abu Dhabi’s Reem Mall, has Festival. launched a unique new awards program for its staff and contractors. The initiative sees an award and prize presented monthly to a worker in recognition for showing outstanding commitment to health and safety standards, or for directly contributing to the health and safety of their colleagues. The event included several activities for the kids and their families in celebration of Mother’s Day. Activities included a karate show, Kong Fu show, playing the Smurfs on the main theater, entertainment games, distribution of gifts to mothers and their children. Children and their families enjoyed several fun activities offered by the center in a safe and comfortable environment. Al Farwaniya is working with a specialist health and safety consultant, 4See, to oversee the health and safety directly on behalf of the employer. They are working together with main works contractor, Itinera Ghantoot JV, and they have implemented a number of unique health, safety and welfare initiatives such as a 24-hour medical clinic, a 2,000 worker cool room to provide relief from weather conditions and a dedicated The invitation was publicly announced and included facility on-site for ongoing safety training for workers, discussions related to the influence of social media, sub-contractors and staff. cases of domestic violence and the reasons behind it. The event aimed to encourage children ages 6 – 16 to practice sports, such as Kong Fu, to develop their defensive skills in an ethical manner. I P a g e 27 UPAC’s Commitment The annual Communication on Progress Report (COP) serves to incorporate information regarding the Company’s activities according to the UN Global Compact. An overview of such activities is available on the UN Global Compact’s website as well as the UPAC website. Going forward, UPAC is committed to continue to update and report on the Communication on Progress (COP) annually. Integrating the Global Compact principles into UPAC’s policies and culture has provided the Company with the opportunity to enhance its culture of integrity and accountability and has allowed it to continue to build upon its responsibilities towards its people, its stakeholders, and its overall community. We hope that this report succeeded in outlining the Company’s performance during the course of 2019 and in showcasing its commitment to uphold the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. During the coming year, UPAC aims to continue and progress its performance and activities related to human rights, labour, environment, and anticorruption. We thank you for this opportunity and welcome any feedback to the above report. www.upac.com.kw I P a g e 28
