BUILDING YOUR TOMORROW TODAY DOOSAN CORPORATION CSR REPORT 2018 Doosan Group Introduction of Doosan Group Doosan’s Management Philosophy Korea’s Oldest Enterprise Innovating and Changing People-centered Enterprise Winning Team Doosan Global Enterprise The unique way of Doosan's doing business represents a corporate philosophy, culture, and set of management principles that Doosan has Doosan is the oldest Korean Doosan enhances human lives by Based on Doosan's philosophy developed with the aim of transforming itself into a “Proud Global Doosan.” The unique way of Doosan's doing business consists of the following company with over 123 years pursuing innovation and change centered on people, we strive three elements: the Doosan Credo; the People of Doosan (“The Six Traits of Doosan People”); and the Doosan Credo Change Model, which serves of history and also the fastest continuously, based on its ISB to maximize the value of our as the foundation through which the People of Doosan realize the Doosan Credo. growing company in the last 10 business, required to build and customers, shareholders, and years. operate the social infrastructure. investors, and thereby realize 1 Doosan Credo a higher level of customer satisfaction. Doosan Vision The Doosan Credo • A philosophy to be observed by Doosan People Proud Global Doosan • A charter serving as the criteria and frame of reference for all business conduct Doosan intends to become a Proud Global Doosan, through processes suitable for the global standard and talentand decision-making oriented management, which is a source of global competitiveness. • Composed of Aspiration and Core Values Doosan Credo System Aspiration Proud Global Doosan Winning Team! Doosan! Talent-centered Establishing People Cultivating Integrity People and management, which stream-lined Core Values transparency is the source of global processes to reach To establish a Proud Global Doosan, Doosan People practice competitiveness global standards the nine Core Values of the Doosan Credo on a daily basis, Inhwa Customers Technology and wherever they conduct business in the world. The Core Values Innovation include the methods by which Doosan People should operate the company’s business, the way they should treat and respect Profit Social Safety Responand each other, and the ways in which they should work with all of sibility EnvironDoosan’s partners. ment Overview of Key Affiliates 2 A Strong, Competitive Edge & Advanced Processes and Systems Doosan Corporation For a continuously strong performance, Doosan strives to secure a Strong Competitive Edge, at the same time as optimizing its way ElectroIndustrial Mottrol BG Retail BG Fuel Cell BG Bio BU Digital Materials BG Vehicle BG Innovation BU of working through Advanced Processes and Systems. This creates a virtuous cycle in which Doosan’s people, the individuals who actually determine Doosan’s performance as a company, are trained to pursue these same objectives meticulously. This positive feedback mechanism thus results in a winning team. Affiliated Companies or Subsidiaries 3 Doosan People ISB1) Regardless of whether they have exceptional capabilities or not, the term “Doosan People” refers to all Doosan employees who Doosan Heavy Doosan Doosan Doosan Doosan Doosan Doosan Doosan Doosan Industries & Infracore Bobcat Engineering & Mecatec Robotics, Mobility Logistics incessantly strive to enhance their capabilities while practicing Doosan’s Core Values with a mindset of actively contributing to the Group Construction Construction Inc. Innovation Solution organization. In addition, Doosan People respect and practice certain fundamental values, while placing great importance on the CSB2) concept of talent. The intrinsic Traits of Doosan People may be summarized as follows: Oricom Hancom Doosan Doosan Doosan Neoplux Magazine Bears Cuvex Auxiliary Organizations Doosan Yonkang Foundation Doosan Art Center DLI3) 끊임없이 올라가는 눈높이 진정한 관심과 육성 인화 열린 소통 근성있는 실행 우선순위화 및 집중 Limitless Aspiration Cultivating Talent Inhwa Open Communication Tenacity & Drive Prioritization & Focus 1) Infrastructure Support Business 2) Consumer & Service Business 3) Doosan Leadership Institute About This Report Contents BUILDING YOUR TOMORROW Overview of the Report Doosan Corporation has published its annual Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Report, which reflects the opinions of its stakeholders, since 2013 to share its activities and achievements during the preceding year. The present 6th CSR report aims to transparently disclose Doosan’s key CSR achievements of 2018 to its stakeholders. TODAY Doosan Group CSR Management 64 CSR Strategy and Key Activities Doosan Corporation 66 Transparency of Governance·Stakeholder Composition of the Report CSR Report 2018 Introduction Engagement Doosan emphasizes leading activities and cases under the Business 68 Interview with experts & Impacts section by selecting key issues based on the degree of 02 CEO Message 70 Risk Management stakeholders’ interest and strategic significance. It introduces key pol04 Letter to Stakeholders 72 Anti-corruption·Ethical Management·Fair Trade icies, major policies, management methods, activities and data relat06 Introduction of Doosan Corporation 73 Research and Development ed to corporate social responsibility which can be found in the CSR 75 Customer Satisfaction · Management section. Related data is presented in the Appendix. Quality Management Reporting Period and Scope Design the Future 77 Talent Management Environment and Safety Management Supply This report presents Doosan’s CSR achievements from January 1st Spark the Growth 80 Supply Chain Management to December 31st of 2018. Certain information in this report relates to 82 10 Doosan Corporation, Preparing for the Future 83 Social Contribution activities in 2019 if they are deemed to have an important impact on decision-making. It also discloses both the company’s plans for 2019 as 12 Foundation for Sustainable Growth well as forward-looking statements based on midand long-term plans. 36 Digital Transformation & Business Innovation It presents the achievements and activities of all domestic worksites of Doosan Corporation, and specifies details concerning overseas worksites. Reporting Principle This report has been prepared in conformance to the Core Options under the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) Standards. The current guidelines for reporting can be found on pages 97~100 of this report. Appendix Independent Assurance Business & Impacts 87 Economic Performance DNV GL has verified the contents and publication process of this report. 89 Environmental Performance The assurance statement appears on pages 102-103. 40 Challenges and Scope of Innovation for the Future 92 Social Performance 44 Realization of a People-centered Organizational Culture Materiality Test 94 48 Efforts for a Safe and Clean Society Principles of Charitable Contribution 95 52 Growth Shared with Suppliers and Communities and Sponsorship 56 CSR Achievements and Plans 96 Human Rights Policy 58 Creating Social Value of Doosan 97 GRI Index 61 UN Global Compact 101 Membership & Awards 102 Independent Assurance Statement 104 Greenhouse Gas Verification Statement Cover Story Dots and lines present Doosan’s future-oriented image that extends around the world. Doosan Group Introduction > CEO Message CEO Message · L etter to Stakeholders · Introduction of Doosan Corporation Design the Future Spark the Growth Business & impacts For Doosan, a sustainable future starts with challenges, innovation and constant efforts Doosan was the first to be established among the modern companies of Korea, and has achieved exponential growth over the last 123 years. Over a century of constant challenges and innovation, Doosan has become a top-tier global company with about 40,000 employees in 38 countries. Doosan continues its sound management based on its solid business portfolio. Despite difficult market conditions, we are maintaining growth and accelerating growth by securing key technologies in new business areas. Furthermore, we have a strong will to increase our value and competitiveness of existing businesses and create new business opportunities through digital transformation. Doosan's growth over a century is thanks to the unlimited trust and support of our stakeholders. We will continue to be a sustainable company with you for the next century. We sincerely ask for your continued interest and support as we maintain our commitment to move forward. Thank you. Chairman of Doosan Group, CEO of Doosan Corporation Jeongwon Park 2 3 Doosan Group Introduction ·CEO Message Letter to Stakeholder >Letter to Stakeholders · Introduction of Doosan Corporation Design the Future Spark the Growth Business & impacts Doosan Corporation will open the doors to a new future through change, innovation and social responsibility management Dear Esteemed Stakeholders, Doosan Corporation is diligently communicating with its stakeholders through its annual CSR Report and is committed to corporate social responsibility management by disclosing Doosan's economic, social and environmental performance and activities transparently throughout the year. Since last year, Doosan Corporation is pushing ahead to provide innovative solutions and differentiated values to its stakeholders, based on its new vision and slogan, ‘World Best Innovation Partner' and 'Design the Future, Spark the Growth'. Doosan Corporation was able to extend its success by continuously pursuing innovation and taking up challenges amid various problems such as the ongoing recession and uncertainty in the market. Electro-Materials BG has increased its portion of overseas sales by strengthening strategic competitiveness in existing businesses such as copper clad laminates and OLEDs, and is continuing to discover and nurture new business items, including the starting of the construction of a battery copper foil plant in Europe. Meanwhile, Industrial Vehicle BG was able to make increased sales sharply compared to last year through an increased domestic market share, strong sales in advanced markets, and strategic alliances with top-tier companies. Through an active response to the rapid increase in demand of hydraulic parts and continuous improvement efforts, Mottrol BG was able to make increased sales sharply compared to last year, while, at the same time, strengthening its global competitiveness by expanding its business into new markets. Retail BG is growing steadily every year, while establishing a stable business environment amid fierce competition in the duty-free market and a rapidly changing business environment. As for Fuel Cell BG, it has set a new performance record since it started electronic fuel business, secured nearly KRW 1.2 trillion in project orders, and established its position as a global leader in the fuel cell market. Based on these achievements, Doosan Corporation will prepare another tomorrow. In a rapidly changing industrial environment, digital transformation is expanding its application day by day, and the fourth industrial revolution has become a daily routine. Based on a high-growth business portfolio, Doosan Corporation will expand its market share in the traditional industries and accelerate growth in the new business in the stream of changing times. In addition, the company will have a management system that can respond to rapidly changing market conditions, and proactively engage with changes in the business environment and the market. Doosan Corporation will develop products that can lead the market and diversify export markets with new customers by focusing on strengthening both its business and global competitiveness, diversifying its business platforms, and promoting new platforms. Doosan Corporation will take the lead in pursuing and practicing social values as well as in the economic value of enterprises. The company holds the CSR committee every year to review and share CSR performance and future plans, to check the CSR direction that everyone should move together in. Doosan Corporation has promoted a global CSR roll-out for its overseas subsidiaries in the US, Europe, and China, while making efforts to achieve corporate social responsibility management at its domestic and overseas business sites. The company set up midto long-term road maps for each subcommittees to establish key action plans and key performance indicators (KPIs) to prepare the foundation for social responsibility management practices. Doosan Corporation's efforts have been recognized for its achievements such as listing on both DJSI (Dow Jones Sustainability Indices) Asia Pacific and DJSI Korea for five consecutive years, receiving A+ rating of ESG evaluation by the Korea Corporate Governance Service. Doosan Corporation will grow and develop with its stakeholders as a corporate citizen, who values change and innovation, and places importance on the sustainability of our society. In this regard, I cordially ask you, our esteemed and valued stakeholders, for your everlasting support. Thank you. Chairman of the CSR Committee, CEO of Doosan Corporation Hyunsoo Dong 4 5 Doosan Group Introduction Introduction of Doosan Corporation Global Network of Doosan ·CEO Message Corporation ·Letter to Stakeholders >Introduction of Doosan Corporation Doosan Corporation operates production plants, overseas Design the Future Spark the Growth subsidiaries, and overseas branches in 15 countries worldwide. HeadBusiness & impacts quarters 1 Doosan Corporation Seoul, S. Korea R&D 2 Electro-Materials Yongin, S. Korea Centers 3 Bio Suwon, S. Korea 4 Industrial Vehicle Incheon, S. Korea ProducProduction Plants_Domestic tion Plants 5 Electro-Materials Jeungpyeong Plant Jeungpyeong, S. Korea 6 Electro-Materials Gimcheon Plant Gimcheon, S. Korea 7 Electro-Materials Iksan Plant Iksan, S. Korea 33 29 Iksan, S. Korea 8 Bio Iksan Plant 34 30 40 18 41 15 43 9 Fuel Cell Iksan Plant Iksan, S. Korea 16 42 10 Industrial Vehicle Incheon Plant Incheon, S. Korea 27 20 36 28 11 Mottrol Changwon Plant Changwon, S. Korea 17 39 31 35 12 Fuel Cell Hwaseong Plant Hwaseong, S. Korea 19 13 32 21 14 4 1 Production Plants_Overseas 22 10 Changshu, China 23 38 3 13 Electro-Materials DSCS 24 12 2 37 14 Electro-Materials CFAP ZH Zhangjiagang, China 25 5 15 Electro-Materials CFL Wiltz, Luxembourg 16 Electro-Materials DE Tatabánya, Hungary 7 8 9 6 17 Industrial Vehicle DIVC Yantai, China 26 18 Industrial Vehicle DLE Freiwalde, Germany 11 19 Mottrol DMJC Jiangyin, China 20 Fuel Cell DFCA South Windsor, Connecticut, USA 21 Bio Doosan-Kelun JV Chengdu, China Overseas 22 Electro-Materials DSC Shanghai, China Subsidiaries 23 Electro-Materials Shen Zhen Shenzhen, China 24 Electro-Materials DSH Hong Kong, China 25 Electro-Materials CFAP HK Hong Kong, China 26 Electro-Materials DSES Singapore 27 Electro-Materials DSEA San Jose, California, USA 28 Electro-Materials CFT Glenside, Pennsylvania, USA 29 Industrial Vehicle DIVUK Northampton, UK Introduction of Doosan Corporation Doosan Corporation Highlight Main business lines 30 Industrial Vehicle DIVEU Sint-Niklaas, Belgium 31 Industrial Vehicle DIVAC Atlanta, Georgia, USA Including overseas subsidiaries of Doosan BGs at the end of 2018 Doosan Corporation, the parent company of Doosan Materials Machinery Energy Atlanta, Georgia, USA 32 Industrial Vehicle DMHS Group, oversees the operations of 23 affiliates involved 6,494 Total assets Electro-Materials BG Industrial Vehicle BG Fuel Cell BG 33 Industrial Vehicle Rushlift Northampton, UK in diverse business streams, and at the same directly Copper clad laminates, Engine-powered, electric forkRenewable energy, fuel cell, manages its seven BG/BU in over 15 countries. KRW billion panel materials, heat lifts, forklift parts and services high/low capacity fuel cell 34 DDI Europe Crawly, UK radiation panels system 35 DDI America Suwanee, Georgia, USA 3,416.4 Revenues Mottrol BG Date of Establishment: December 18th, 1933 36 DDI China Beijing, China Bio BU Hydraulic devices, Hydraulic CEO: Park Jeongwon, Dong Hyunsoo, Kim Minchul KRW billion Pharmaceutical ingredients, parts for the defense industry Overseas 37 Electro-Materials Vietnam Branch Hanoi, Vietnam Branches Business Areas: Electronic components/materials, Nutraceutical ingredients, 38 Electro-Materials Taiwan Branch Taipei, Taiwan 215.1 Operating income Pharmaceutical / Nutraforklifts, hydraulic parts, retail, fuel cell, biomaterials Distribution Information and 39 Electro-Materials Japan Branch Tokyo, Japan ceutical / Cosmeceutical Communication Operating Countries: 15 countries including Korea, KRW billion emulsifiers, Cosmeceutical Retail BG 40 Industrial Vehicle Germany Branch Essen, Germany Digital Innovation BU China, USA, and UK ingredients Duty-free shop, Fashion mall 41 Industrial Vehicle France Branch Élancourt, France 5,648 Consulting, IT system building Headquarters: 275 Jangchungdan-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul, Number of employees and operating, IT infrastruc42 Industrial Vehicle Élancourt, France Lissone, Italy Korea persons ture operations 43 DDI Europe-Czech Branch Pilzen, Czech 6 7 Design the Future 10_Doosan Corporation, Preparing for the Future Spark the Growth 12_Foundation for Sustainable Growth 36_Digital Transformation & Business Innovation Doosan is Dedicated to Creating New Values through Change and Innovation We are implementing the next wave of innovations through Digital Transformation , by which we aim to revamp our practices in exploring new business opportunities and revolutionize our modus operandi in preparation for the Fourth Industrial Revolution Doosan Group Introduction Doosan Corporation, Design the Future Spark the Growth > Doosan Corporation, Preparing for the Future · Foundation for Sustainable Growth Preparing for the Future · Digital Transformation & Business Innovation Business & Impacts Doosan's strategy responds to our rapidly changing business environment 1 Pursuing new businesses in response to the current Paradigm Shift The primary business domains of Doosan Corporation are electronic materials, forklifts, hydraulic equipment, and bio products, moreover it is striving to increase growth opportunities in all business lines, including Doosan Corporation pursues new businesses to aggressively respond to the current ongoing paradigm shift in the energy and retail services. Doosan Corporation is expanding its business platforms for new business lines by internal and external business environment enhancing its capabilities for market leading products and technologies, and entering into future high-growth 1. Battery copper foil business 2. Industrial drone solution industries based on its new investments and M&A. It strives to become a sustainable company in the era of Entering the market as our new core business to Provide customer-optimized industrial drone solutions Digital Transformation, under the vision of World’s Best Innovation Partner . In 2018, Doosan Corporation produce battery copper foil, which acts as an electron that overcome limitations such as flight time and transfer path for electric vehicle batteries with a rapid payload through development of fuel cells for drones achieved remarkable results despite the rapidly changing business environment and growing economic increase in demand for electric vehicles, observed that can fly for over 2 hours uncertainties at home and abroad. Its market capitalization is approx. KRW 2.7 trillion, an increase of about recently. 40% compared to approx. KRW 1.9 trillion in 2009. This is similar to the growth rate of the industrial materials 3. Advanced materials for 5G 4. Fuel cell remote monitoring service market, to which Doosan Corporation belongs. Doosan Corporation will grow into a leader by providing Promote high-tech materials business to cope with Provide advanced services that can predict operating innovative solutions and differentiated value to its B2B customers and end users, for continued growth and 5G communication demand, based on the rapid status and failure of a fuel cell, based on AI development of communication infrastructure investing in future technologies. 5. Industrial Vehicle total solution 6. Mottrol Device failure diagnosis and Implement total industrial vehicle solutions, based prediction service Vision on service platform after rental, export, secondary Provide PHM1) service to customers by utilizing product WORLD BEST INNOVATION PARTNER transaction, and A/S development and fault diagnosis/prediction technology, through the use of signal processing and AI 1) PHM (Prognostics and Health Management) : Failure prognostics and health management Slogan “Design the Future, Spark the Growth” 2 Advancement into high3 DT (Digital Transformation) activity for securing growth new businesses competitiveness of existing business 1 Pursuing new 2 Advancement 3 Competitiveness 4 Enablers Strategy business avenues in into high-growth enhancement of response to new businesses existing businesses 1. Multifunctional Cobot Solution 1. Data-driven Operation 2. RPA2) Paradigm Shift Safe, cheap and easy-to-use Establish a real-time data management/ Improve business efficiency by using robotic multifunctional cooperative robots monitoring system to identify the project’s software for automation-enabled office tasks market progress status in early stages and thus according to a set of predefined rules Strategic • Battery components for • Robotics • Manufacturing • DT capabilities improve quality. • Achieved 50% or more improvement in office / Quality innovation (In 2017, Global Launch of Tasks electric vehicles • Sensing technology • Open innovation • Improve and standardize processing data work productivity on Electro-Materials BG • Advanced technology multifunctional Cobot Solution package • Advanced materials for 5G • Logistics automation • New biz. exploration • Improve on defective processes by 2) Robotic Process Automation management system securing took place) • Industrial vehicle total solution • IP capabilities utilizing manufacturing big data the world's best products / • Industrial drone solution • Improve productivity through faster Technologies • Fuel-cell power generation production rate • Acceleration of DT 2. Sensing Technology RMS1) Data-driven operations It is a core technology of 5G and can 3. Mobile app Customer Management • Mottrol fault diagnosis and RPA be expanded to all areas of IoT by Retail BG improves on the shopping experience and provides customized services by unifying prediction service Mobile app customer management applying AI and 5G, through the cycle of customer shopping information management. development starting from simple filming • Manage /support shopping activities such as entry, shopping and exit at shops. 1) Remote Monitoring System: A monitoring system that remotely detects and responds to problems based on the device operating on data in real-time to cognitive technology. • Unified shopping convenience and shopping information management 3. Logistics Automation Solution 4 Enablers Doosan's New Slogan for Tomorrow Hardware-oriented logistics facilities are shifting to software-based holistic 1. DT Capabilities 2. New Biz Exploration Design the Doosan Corporation has established a vision and strategic direction to realize sustainable growth through its continuous growth and development of companies, and has created a slogan that expresses its vision and solutions, and logistics solution business is promoted by adding software-based • Establishment of DT organization and hiring professional analysts • Advanced awareness of emergence and changes in new technologies Future strategic direction implicitly and enables easy communication with all stakeholders. ‘Design the Future’ represents Doosan's future-oriented vision for future growth opportunities and ‘Spark the integration capabilities to drones, autonomous driving forklifts, and the • Enhancing DT capabilities through in-house → Capture new business opportunities, training competitive new technology geared Spark the Growth’ reflects Doosan's efforts and enthusiasm to realize those opportunities. Doosan Corporation strives constantly for growth and development, actively communicates with its robot. towards sensing, product/service innovation, and new vendor discovery Growth stakeholders along with the new slogan, to become a company that contributes to sustainable economic, social and environmental performance based on its capabilities of all BG / BU companies it operates. 3. Open Innovation • Collaborate with external professional networks (Google, Amazon, Microsoft, etc.) to strengthen internal capabilities 10 11 Foundation for Sustainable Growth Electro-Materials Business Group Electro-Materials BG plays a leading role in the development of electronic industry by supplying high-quality CCL, a core material for printed circuit boards, in addition to core materials for OLED displays. In addition, it is mass-producing electrodes, a key material for fuel cells to secure competitiveness in the renewable energy business, and preparing for the future electric vehicle market with the sole high-end battery plant in Europe. In particular, we have established a First Mover position in new markets where high growth is expected, and are becoming a global toptier material company. We are improving our sustainability by building future-oriented portfolios such as 5G, eco-friendly cars, and energy. Market Status and Outlook Sales in 2018 8,685 New application areas of our ElectroFurthermore, the renewable energy market Materials BG, including IoT, servers, electric is expected to grow in advanced countries KRW billion cars, and 5G, are growing rapidly, whereas based on policy changes such as restriction mobile products, a key application area, of global carbon emission rights. are maintaining an annual average growth Sales Portion of High-end Products rate of 2%. In particular, high value-added Therefore, Electro-Materials BG is expanding products like network and semiconductor its business into a promising industry 63% CCL 1) are expected to grow. In keeping with the era of 5G, new products have been developed to meet the demand for high-performance materials with ultra-high frequency and low loss. group (automotive electronic components/ energy). It is exploring new markets such as autonomous driving radar/communication board such as ADAS2), as high growth of the electric car market has changed the Global Market entire paradigm of automobile industry. 21 137 Technology transition in the OLED market is gaining momentum as foldable displays such as mobile and TV display panels make the switch from the existing LED to OLED countries corporate displays rapidly. customers 1) CCL (Copper Clad Laminate): Key materials for PCBs (Printed Circuit Boards), essential parts Suji Institute of Technology of electronic products 2) ADAS (Advanced Driver Assistance System) 12 13 Doosan Group Main Products and Services Business Strategy Introduction Design the Future Spark the Growth · Doosan Corporation, Preparing for the Future > Foundation for Sustainable Growth Copper Clad Laminate (CCL) OLED 5G Material · Digital Transformation & Business Innovation (Organic Light Emitting Diodes) Copper clad laminate (CCL) is the core Business & Impacts Electro-Materials BG plans to develop new materials for 5G markets such as next-generation substrate material of the printed circuit board The Organic Light Emitting Diode (OLED) high-frequency low-loss products and antenna materials. When base stations and terminals (PCB), which has built-in semiconductors is mainly used in next-generation displays for 5G are released, high-performance materials with ultra-high frequency and low loss are and electronic parts that carry out various and lighting as its image response velocity expected to be required. Therefore, Electro-Materials BG is moving fast to become the First functions of electronic appliances. It is the is more than 1,000 times faster than that of Mover based on top-tier loss technology. most important component of electronic the TFT-LCD, creating little or no residual products appliances. image and emitting almost natural light. Applicable Products: Mobile Phone, Tablet Applicable Products: Mobile Phone, Tablet PC, OLED TV PC, OLED TV Fuel Cell Electrode Battery Copper Foil The electrode is a key material in fuel Battery copper foil is a thin copper film of Electric Vehicle Material cell, and is supplied by Fuel Cell BG to the cathode part of a secondary battery; it Environmental problems and technological strengthen our competitiveness in the fuel acts as a path of support for electrons of advances have brought the future car cell business through in-house production the cathode. It is becoming very important market to electric vehicles, rather than of raw materials. in line with the rapidly rising demand for diesel or gasoline models. Electro-Materials Applicable Products: Fuel Cell electric vehicles. BG has developed materials for copper Applicable Products: Electric Vehicle Battery foil, high-end flat cable for batteries and high frequency low loss material for radar. It will sign contracts with the Global Tier-1 automakers, and will lead the technology with the sole high-end battery plant in Europe, which is under construction in Hungary. 2018 Key Achievements Acquire Business Competitiveness Strengthen Global Competitiveness New Business Electro-Materials BG’s sales of copper Electro-Materials BG’s business accounted In 2018, Electro-Materials BG started the clad laminates for PKG (Packaging) nonfor 33% in overseas sales, rising 4% from construction of a battery production plant Energy Materials memory and Hi-end NWB (Network Board) the previous year. In particular, it further in Hungary. The Hungary plant is the only have increased, whereas sales of OLED expanded the newly entered Chinese battery copper foil plant in Europe, and will Electro-Materials BG is focusing on developing 2 stack products and producing key materials has expanded to the Chinese market. market and achieved an additional sales of serve as a strategic bridgehead to drive in-house to strengthen its fuel cell electrode business. The miniaturization of fuel cells allows It has strengthened development and KRW 22 billion in 2018. In addition, Electroglobal customer approval from a wide range drones with long-flight capabilities to develop as one of the future markets. Accordingly, manufacturing competitiveness to develop Materials BG strives to localize our plants of customers and win make long-term Electro-Materials BG has secured potential markets for electrodes for fuel cells and completed and mass-produce 5G products, a key by expanding Changshu plant in China supply contracts. As this is the first mass mass-production facilities for electrodes. material for the future with improved yields to respond to issues such as short-term production facility for electrodes in Europe, and productivity. delivery. Electro-Materials BG can gain business competitiveness by in-house production of raw materials through synergy with Fuel Cell BG. In addition, it will find and nurture new items in promising industries such as 5G. 14 15 Foundation for Sustainable Growth Industrial Vehicles Business Group Known for manufacturing Korea's first forklift in 1968, Industrial Vehicles BG has secured more than 50% market share in Korean market, and has grown into a global logistics equipment manufacturer that exports forklifts to more than 100 countries based on its 6 business sites including sales subsidiaries in USA, Belgium, and UK. Industrial Vehicle BG is evolving into a data-based total solution provider by building a digital platform that incorporates ICT technology to enhance sustainability. It plans to secure future growth engines and maximize profitability by strengthening its rental business, purchase of second-hand forklifts, customized forklifts, and service support. Sales in 2018 KRW 869.6 billion Market Status and Outlook 2018 Sales of Forklift Truck The forklift market is showing a growth trend Industrial Vehicle BG will strengthen its 25,000 in markets of developed countries even in downstream business such as purchasing, the face of intensifying price competition using, and service to provide value to our due to excessive supply. The demand for customers throughout the entire service units battery-operated forklift trucks has shown life of its products, and lead the shared an increasing trend as the regulations on economy and innovation of logistics services diesel-engine emission gases has been based on ICT. By building a digital platform 2018 PIN UP Design Awards strengthened owing to the growing concern based on ICT technology, Industrial Vehicle over atmospheric pollution. The demand BG will grow into a total solution provider BEST for small-sized warehouse equipment has that provides customized products and also grown as it is suitable for large retail services based on data. and warehouse businesses. Such market OF BEST trends are expected to persist along with the shared economy, increasing use of renewable energy and the Fourth Industrial Revolution based on ICT. 16 17 Doosan Group Main Products and Services 2018 Key Achievements Introduction Design the Future Spark the Growth · Doosan Corporation, Preparing for the Future In 2018, Industrial Vehicle BG recorded > Foundation for Sustainable Growth · Digital Transformation & Business Innovation Diesel/LPG engine-powered forklifts the highest sales (KRW 900 billion and Business & Impacts 25,000 units) in its history so far, thanks to an increase in dealer support, stronger Industrial Vehicle BG has a lineup of 1.5 to sales channels, as well as a continuous 25 ton models for diesel and 1.5 to 7 ton improvement of product competitiveness units for LPG forklifts. These forklifts enable and successful efforts to develop new high-efficiency logistics at various worksites markets. By setting up a dedicated thanks to their climbing capacity and high production system for industrial vehicles power output. 1 and the MES (Manufacturing Execution System), Industrial Vehicle BG has raised its operational capacity to the next level. In 2018, the 50th anniversary year of Industrial Vehicle BG, it spent time looking back at achievements and strengthening strategy and vision for all employees. In addition, the company opened Doosan Logipia to innovate the way people use and service forklifts. Industrial Vehicle BG is actively pursuing its 'downstream' business that operates all areas related to forklift products such as rental, service, and equipment management. In terms of products, BR18S-9, an electric seated forklift with a family look that has the same Electric seated/stand-up forklifts brand identity as a Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. machine, won the design award at the Pin Up Design Award for Excellence. BR18S-9 and GC25S-9, engine-powered forklifts, won the Industrial Vehicle BG has a lineup of 1.5 to Main Prize of the (Automobiles/Vehicles) category at the 2019 German iF Design Award. Our 5 ton models for seated and 1.3 2.5 ton design competitiveness and product competitiveness are recognized internationally. GSE models for stand-up forklifts, and offers (Ground Support Equipment), an airport logistics business pursued by Rushlift in the UK, won 2 two power source options: lead storage the International Airport Review Awards(IARA). and lithium-ion batteries. They are ecofriendly forklifts used for indoor work such as moving food and cold storage, and have low noise and vibration. Lithium-ion battery forklifts have a longer battery life and are easier to maintain than lead-battery electric forklifts, and hence dramatically reduce operating costs for customers and create 1. 50th anniversary event a safe working environment without the 2. Award winning model (BR18S-9) at 2018 PIN UP Design Award generation of harmful gases during charging 3 3. Rushlift GSE won IARA and discharging. Warehouse equipment Business Strategy Warehouse equipment consists of various lineups including 1.3 to 2.5 ton order picker, pallet truck, stacker, and tow/transporting vehicles that provide excellent mobility in Industrial Vehicle BG plans to strengthen dealer support and develop stronger sales channels, small spaces with compact size and minimal turning radius. and continues to explore new markets based on improvement of product competitiveness, which has been the company’s driving force of continuous growth over the last 50 years. In 2019, Industrial Vehicle BG will develop technologies and innovate products to improve Downstream business customer experience, expand its downstream business area to supply customized services and rentals based on ICT technologies such as Big Data and Platform, and continue to drive The downstream business, including rental its future growth engines and maximize profitability. of forklift, purchase of used forklift and The company aims to become the Global Top-tier 1 Group by 2020 and achieve sales goal of maintenance services, provides options for KRW 2 trillion by 2025. users to quickly and easily access forklifts and meet changing product usage needs from ownership to sharing through a range of customizable products and services supported by digital technology. 18 19 Foundation for Sustainable Growth Mottrol Business Group Since advancement into the unexplored hydraulic industry of Korea in 1974, Mottrol BG has grown to be a leader in the hydraulic industry and established a full line-up of hydraulic products including travelling motors, swing motors, main pumps, and main control valves for heavy construction equipment, as well as hydraulic components for defense products that are applied to land, marine, aircraft and guided weapon systems, to consolidate its position as a leading global manufacturer of components. Sales in 2018 KRW 594.3 billion Market Share in China in 2018 21.1 % Market Status and Outlook The heavy construction equipment market, which is a major business needs including reorganization from a force-intensive unit application area for hydraulic components, showed a steady decline structure to a technology-based unit structure, expansion of budget since 2012 due to the global economic slowdown, the European for core defense capabilities against potential threats, reinforcement financial crisis, and China's real estate/construction slowdown. of the forces in response to the transfer of wartime operational control However, it has swung upward since 2016 due to China's increased and the restructuring of the military, and investment into defense R&D investment in real estate and infrastructure, and the recovery of the for high-tech domestic development in Korea. European economy. The construction heavy equipment market in China, North America, and Europe is expected to grow due to the Taking advantage of this positive outlook for the market, Mottrol BG steady increase in demand. The emerging markets are also expected strives to become a leading global manufacturer of components to expand due to expansion of investment in infrastructure and rising by entering various hydraulic component businesses based on prices of raw materials such as coal and copper. In the defense accumulated know-how, creative technology development, and sector, BG is expanding its business in the aviation/ maritime sector quality improvement activities. and investing into development of challenging technologies based on 20 21 Doosan Group Main Products and Services Introduction Design the Future Spark the Growth Hydraulic Components · Doosan Corporation, Preparing for the Future > Foundation for Sustainable Growth · Digital Transformation & Business Innovation As a hydraulic components manufacturer with over 40 years of experience, Mottrol BG Business & Impacts has production capacity to manufacture more than 35,000 units of hydraulic products per month; the range of products include travelling motors, swing motors, main pumps, and main control valves for heavy construction equipment. In addition, Mottrol BG carries out quality, environment, and safety management of products through a systematic management. In particular, the travel device for excavators was selected as a World-class Product by the Ministry of Commerce, Industry, and Energy, proving its excellence. Travel Device Swing Device 2018 Key Achievements With built-in automatic 2-speed function, Mottrol's powerful swing device incorporates built-in hydraulic brake, built-in shockless relief valve embedded with shock-less Strengthen Business Competitiveness function at start/stop, and embedded antifunction, built-in mechanical brake valve, cavitation function, Mottrol's travel device anti-cavitation function, and reverse swing Mottrol BG’s sales recorded KRW 594.3 billion in 2018, an increase of 43% compared with the previous year. provides powerful output torque, excellent protection valve, all of which cumulatively In particular, the market share of Mottrol BG in China, which has the largest market size, reached 21.1%, an controllability and high reliability. ensure high performance and fatigueless increase of 3.3% compared with the previous year. This result was achieved through continuous improvement operation. efforts such as expansion of the Changwon and Chinese factories, and automation of the headquarters' processing and cleaning process to meet the sharp growth in demand for hydraulic components. Strengthen Global Competitiveness Mottrol BG has secured a bridgehead for new markets/customers by promoting sales of its travel devices through European companies and dealers to expand BG’s global market share. Meanwhile, sales of hydraulic components has been strengthened through Indian equipment makers and partners to enter the Indian market. Efforts to expand into overseas defense markets were achieved by exporting hydraulic components for ground equipment to India. Main Pump MCV (Main Control Valve) Developed in 2001, the DPA Series pumps MCV controls the flow route of the hydraulic Business Strategy have various features. Compared with the oil from the pump in order to operate T5V series of the same class, total length actuators such as travel motor, swing motor, has been shortened by 30%; also, the new or cylinders. The 2-block type MCV meets Existing Business model has adopted the newest low pulsation, customers’ diversified requirements with low noise technology, and can be applied to excellent controllability and extendibility. DPA Series DPA-V Series Mottrol BG plans to continue to develop differentiated new series products and expand various heavy equipment in combination with its product line-up by improving cost, performance, durability, and reliability compared various control methods (flow control, power to existing products. BG aims to expand production at its subsidiary in China and global T5V Series DPLS 85 control, power shift control, and electronic sourcing including from China to strengthen product competitiveness and secure business control). Various attachments are available competitiveness of hydraulic components for heavy construction equipment. It also plans to with an optional high pressure gear pump. accelerate its entry into the Indian market, supply to advanced heavy construction equipment The low-noise and high efficient DPA Series companies to expand global market share and strengthen the excavator and other equipment swash plate pumps offer a sturdy ground for A/S business. Efforts to expand into overseas defense markets will be achieved by exports of environment-friendly design. hydraulic components for ground equipment. Mottrol BG will do its best to attract orders in TM/DM Series TSM/T3X Series the guided/marine/aviation sector and secure future core technologies. Main Control Valve New Business DPA-V Series DPS27 Mottrol BG plans to pursue new projects, and develop and commercialize core components DPA Series T5V Series DPLS for industrial robots by advancing into the robotics sector, a promising high-growth industry, in 85 order to respond to the changing trends of the industrial environment and secure new growth engines. TM/DM Series 22 23 Foundation for Sustainable Growth Retail Business Group Based on their wide experience and deep understanding of multinational customers, the Doota Duty Free and Doota Mall major shopping and tourist destinations in Dongdaemun that make your lifestyle much more enjoyable are looking beyond the district to step into the global market. Doota Duty Free has grown rapidly since its opening in May 2016, leading to the globalization of the Dongdaemun shopping district. In addition, the store achieved the fifth-largest market share among the city-center duty-free shops within two years of its opening, and was reinvented as a specialized retail service provider through the merger with Doota Mall, an iconic fashion complex of the Dongdaemun fashion & shopping district. Retail BG offers the best customer satisfaction with its differentiated services of Doota Duty Free and Doota Mall. Sales in 2018 KRW 468.4 billion Market Status and Outlook Market of City-center The duty-free market is expected to grow growth of the Weishang (WeChat's micro Duty-free Shops in 2018 gradually at an annual average rate of 3% retailers) channel. In addition, the duty-free in the midto long-term. In particular, group market will be affected by midto long-term 5.4 % tours to Korea have been allowed in six system changes such as business license/ regions of China, and a gradual market tax payment for dealers and Weishang in recovery is expected as political conflicts accordance with the revision of the China are eased. In addition, growth of the online E-commerce Act in January 2019, along market is expected to continue among dutywith the upward revision of tariff by the free markets. China Customs Service in November 2018. In 2018, online sales accounted 30% of Therefore, Doosan Retail BG strives to city duty free shop sales, and the growth continue its growth and development phase is expected to continue thanks through providing differentiated services and to increased outbound travelers and the strengthening business competitiveness. 24 25 Doosan Group Market Status and Outlook Introduction Design the Future Spark the Growth · Doosan Corporation, Preparing for the Future The Doota Duty Free, which is operating over 700 brands at Doota, a landmark of the > Foundation for Sustainable Growth · Digital Transformation & Business Innovation Dongdaemun area, works based on a distinctive concept reflecting the unique local features Business & Impacts of Dongdaemun and the changing needs of duty-free customers. The Doota Duty Free provides a pleasant and trendy shopping experience to customers by offering the benefits of great prices in a convenient shopping environment as well as young, sophisticated K-style products and thematic zones. Doota Mall, Korea’s leading fashion mall, is visited by over 8.2 million local and foreign shoppers annually. The seven story fashion mall houses over 300 boutique stores that sell a wide range of products, providing a perfect one-stop shopping experience. As a trendy, premium fashion powerhouse, Doota Mall always strives to provide the most pleasant and efficient shopping environment and deliver the highest level of customer satisfaction by keeping facilities up to date. Doota Mall aims to provide customer satisfaction through its innovative business strategies: Doota Mall became the first fashion mall to offer a fixed price system, install information centers for foreign visitors, and deploy floor managers. Business Strategy Doota Duty Free 2018 Key Achievements Doota Duty Free aims to become one of the top four city-center duty free shops with KRW 1.7 trillion in sales and 8.2% market share in 2023 by strengthening its differentiation and operational capabilities, creating a stable profit structure, and Achieving Quantitative Growth of the Differentiation Points of Doota Mall expanding its business to airports and overseas. Duty Free Business Retail BG opened its ‘Pierrot Shopping’ unDespite fierce competition in the duty-free der the theme of 'Fun & Crazy', strengthenStrengthening Differentiation of Doota Expansion of Airport and Overseas market, Retail BG’s Doota Duty Free recording the differentiated services of Doota Mall Duty Free Sites Securing Momentum ed 5.4 percent market share, achieving 1.8 in the Dongdaemun area. Pierrot Shopping, which has 32,000 items in a space of 1,425 By opening D:MAISON, a designer brand Doota Duty Free is preparing itself to become times greater quantitative growth compared square meters on the second floor underselect store, Doota Duty Free offers its an operator for airport duty free shops in to the previous year. It also established a ground of Doota Mall, has prepared dedicatcustomers with up-to-date luxurious fashion the first half of 2020, and has set the stage stable business environment by portfolio ed desks and offers four-lingual instructions products. It also paved the way for both for duty free shops at major international diversity and securing diverse customer in order to attract foreign customers and quantitative and qualitative growth in 2019 airports in developing Southeast Asian groups despite the rapidly changing busicontribute to the revitalization of tourism in through the expansion of the store. In countries such as Vietnam and Indonesia. ness environment. the Dongdaemun area. addition, it has expanded late-night content such as late-night contents such as discount D:MAISON OPEN vouchers and logistics support to enhance differentiated business activities only for D:MAISON, opened in 2018, and is a deDutta Duty Free. signer brand select shop that carries wide selection of luxurious products directly choDoota Mall sen and parallel-imported by Doota Duty Free MDs. D:MAISON, with its strength in Doota Mall plans to strengthen its site attractions through Vertical Change and secure value consumption and trendy curation, reits position as Dongdaemun's number one fashion shopping mall by expanding the alizes customer satisfaction through delivery small format sites domestically and overseas based on the brand identity of Doota Mall. of differentiated services. In addition, Doota Mall aims to implement Vertical Change in the midto long-term by reflecting the 'Fast & First Fashion' identity targeting the 20-30 year olds. In 2019, it plans to expand differentiated services by attracting mega merchandise such as Nike. 26 27 Foundation for Sustainable Growth Fuel Cell Business Group Doosan Fuel Cell BG USA Corporation Doosan Fuel Cell was established in 2014 when Doosan Corporation made two strategic initiatives in the fuel cell market – acquiring the assets of ClearEdge Power, a fuel cell technology leader in the United States, and merging with Fuel Cell Power, a residential fuel cell leader in Korea. The acquisition of these two companies led to the formation of the Doosan Fuel Cell Group. Fuel Cell BG is on the way to becoming a world-class fuel cell enterprise through production and supply of fuel cell products such as cell stack, reformer, which are key components of the fuel cell system for power generation, building, and housing. Fuel Cell BG has a line-up of fuel cell products from 600W compact-sized to 440KW medium-sized products. In Korea, we will continue to produce compact fuel cells for residential use, while strengthening our position in the large power generation sector, in line with government policy on renewable energy provisions. In the United States, we will continue to focus on providing cost competitive, clean, reliable energy solutions for customers who need secure uninterrupted power, even during blackouts, for their commercial buildings, industrial plants, data centers, hospitals, and universities. Market Status and Outlook Orders Received in 2018 1,167.6 Fuel Cell BG produces stationary fuel cells for power generation, and incentive policies. Private and public sectors in Europe, including housing and buildings. The global stationary fuel cell market is those of Germany, have started to invest in technology development ® KRW billion ell concentrated mainly in Korea, USA, and Japan. on fuel cells and hydrogen, accelerating expansion of the market. Pure C Meanwhile, China has begun to emerge as the largest potential Owing to adoption of the Renewable Portfolio Standard (RPS) system market for fuel cells, with the government announcing large-scale and the government's incentive policies, the Korean stationary fuel investment plans to usher in the hydrogen economy. Sales in 2018 Patent Applications cell market has shown obvious growth mainly in fuel cells for power 359.3 Domestic Overseas generation. It is forecast to grow based on the hydrogen economy Fuel Cell BG plans to take the lead in producing stable and clean 82 37 promotion roadmap announced by the government in 2019. high-efficiency fuel cells through continuous technology development USA and Japan have steadily expanded their fuel cell market in and investment based on market status and policy direction. KRW billion commercial and household items, respectively, thanks to tax benefits 28 29 Doosan Group Main Products and Services 2018 Key Achievements Introduction Design the Future Spark the Growth · Doosan Corporation, Preparing for the Future Received Order of KRW 1.2 trillion pafc > Foundation for Sustainable Growth · Digital Transformation & Business Innovation Business & Impacts In 2018, Fuel Cell BG recorded orders of KRW 1.2 trillion (including fuel cell equipment and long-term service contracts) from Phosphoric Acid Fuel Cell Korean power companies and USA energy operators. This is the largest amount since Phosphoric acid fuel cell, which uses phosits entry into the fuel cell business. BG won Korea phoric acid as an electrolyte, is supplied for contracts to supply fuel cell devices of 106 In operation : 104MW (238 Units) power generation in facilities and buildings. MW or more to Korea Southern Power, Under installation : 108MW (245 Units) Korea Western Power, and Daesan Green Contract concluded : 31MW (71 Units) Energy in Korea, and also made a contract to supply fuel cells worth 5MW for idle sites Ground-breaking ceremony for Daesan Hydrogen Fuel Cell Power Plant in South Windsor, USA, where Fuel Cell England America is located. In addition, Pyeongtaek Under installation : 1.2MW (3 Units) Orders received for large scale byproduct hydrogen fuel cell project Energy Service, which purchased 7 units (3MW) in 2013, awarded Fuel Cell BG a contract to supply 3MW worth of devices of Daesan Green Energy is a special purpose company (SPC) consisting of Korea East-West USA the same size. Power and Hanwha Energy as its major shareholders. It started construction of a 50MW fuel cell power plant in June 2018 by utilizing hydrogen generated as a byproduct by chemical In operation : 36MW (89 Units) process; the plant is being established in Seosan, Chungnam Province. Fuel Cell BG has Contract concluded : 29MW (64 Units) signed a contract to provide device and service to the plant for 20 years. This plant is the first Feature and the largest byproduct hydrogen fuel cell plant for commercial use. • Industry's longest stack life of 10 years • Adjustable power output according • Can be used with various fuels such as to demand Business Strategy hydrogen, city gas and LPG • High output in small space • Power supply even in the event of a fault on • Installable in indoors and outdoors, a standalone power grid on the roof, etc. KRW 1.3 Trillion in Orders in 2019 Global Market Opportunities The fuel cell market for power generation is Fuel Cell BG seeks entry into global markets led by Korea and USA, and Fuel Cell BG has outside of Korea and the United States, set a goal to achieve over KRW 1 trillion in which are major markets. As with the orders in 2018 and 2019 each. Especially in Daesan Green Energy Project, which was 2019, it plans to achieve KRW 1.3 trillion in launched in 2018, Fuel Cell BG will identify PEMFC A polymer electrolyte fuel cell is a cell orders from Korean power companies and and develop byproduct hydrogen fuel cell type that uses a polymer membrane that USA energy operators, and to consolidate plants that utilize unused or discarded can serve as an electrolyte to permeate its position as No.1 fuel cell supplier in hydrogen at chemical and steel plants, hydrogen ions. Korea and strengthen its presence in the while considering additional opportunities Polymer Electrolyte Feature USA market. in developing countries like China. It plans Membrane Fuel Cell to pursue marketing activities to supply Hydrogen Economy Activation Roadmap fuel cell as an alternative power source for • Free start/stop and real-time advanced countries where aging of existing on/off operation The hydrogen economy activation roadmap, power grids has resulted in greater demand • Can adjust amount of power generation in for decentralized power sources around the system according to the power demand announced in 2019, is a major driver for the midto long-term growth of Fuel Cell city centers. In addition, it is reviewing the • Installable in indoor and outdoor spaces possibility of a new and renewable energy BG. Fuel Cell BG plans to secure its line• Smaller installation area and time compared solution linked with solar power, wind power, to other energy sources up of various products in the fuel cell market for power generation in the midto and ESS (Energy Storage System). • Equipped with safety device inside and outside of the system long-term by developing SOFC1) products. BG also aims to participate in hydrogen • Completed green technology certification of cogeneration facility technology using highpower generation through development of molecular electrolyte fuel cell for building hydrogen fuel cell. (GT-17-00321, Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy) 1) SOFC(Solid Oxide Fuel Cell) 30 31 Foundation for Sustainable Growth 2018 Key Achievements Completion of Soy PC plant Since the completion of the facility for mass-production of high-purity Soy PC In March 2018, Bio BU has been developing and supplying materials for cosmetics and medicine to its customers. Bio BU will continue to find Bio potential domestic and foreign customers, and expand its business to focus on the pharmaceutical market by securing cGMP1) and DMF2) certifications. Business Unit Expanding Big Overseas Markets for Cosmeceutical Ingredients In 2018, ceramide, the leading cosmeceutical ingredient for Bio BU, achieved more than 30% increase in sales year-on-year powered by its success in entering large overseas markets. In particular, Bio BU has set the foundations for advancing into the global market including contracts with new large global customers such as Aenova and Johnson & Johnson. It has also successfully made inroads into and expand sales in China, one of the major markets, by developing materials for ceramide-based mask packs that incorporate its formulation technology. These achievements proves that the quality and competitiveness of Doosan's ceramide products have highly been recognized in the competition-intensive Chinese market as well as in the advance markets of USA and Europe. Bio BU will continue to expand its market share by strengthening its product competitiveness and promotion. Development and Timely Delivery of Phospholipid for Powdered Milk In response to the need to replace existing egg-based phospholipid products, raised due to the egg insecticide crisis and bird flu, Bio BU Bio BU provides differentiated values to customers by developing and supplying bio-materials such as medical has successfully developed a new phospholipid ingredient from milk for emulsifiers that are essential to the human body, as well as raw materials based on natural materials and specialized 1) cGMP(Current Good Manufacturing Practice) customers in a timely manner, thus preventing risk of sales loss and securing 2) DMF(Drug Master Files) new growth engines. technology for skincare products. The production process is closely monitored through the GMP1) system, at every step, from sourcing of raw materials Main Products and Services to making of the final products. Meanwhile, the company guarantees a safe and healthy workplace for employees, Pharmaceutical Ingredients Nutraceutical Ingredients Multipurpose Emulsifier Cosmeceutical Ingredients and obtained the PSM2) and ISO 14001 certifications in the process. Bio BU has replaced toxic solvents with Features Features Features Features environment-friendly ones, and uses minimal amounts of solvents in its production processes. • Hydrophobic substances are • Improves cognitive skills that tend to • Safe material used in a wide range of • Secures the same structure as natural homogeneously distributed in water, and deteriorate due to aging products from infant food to medicated substances on the skin medicinal soybean oil is emulsified in for • Recognized for efficacy in preventing syringes • Excellent moisturizing effect on the skin 1) Good Manufacturing Practice 2) Process Safety Management application as intravenous injection. dementia by the U.S. FDA/ designated as • Offers assistance for adsorption of • Prevents adsorption of fine dust (PM2.5) • Safest material made of natural substances a vital health food ingredient by the Korean effective substances into the body. derived from egg yolk Food and Drug Administration Main Product • Selected as a world class product by the • Moisturizing effect on the skin Sales in 2018 Ecocert Certified REACH Registered Ministry of Knowledge and Economy Main Product Ceramide (DS-Ceramide) Phosphatidylcholine (DS-Soy PC series) Products Products Main Product Main Product Fat emulsions for pharmaceutical use Phosphatidylserine (DS-PS series) 31.2 4 4 (DS-PL95E) KRW billion products products Business Strategy Existing Business New Business For cosmeceutical ingredients, Bio BU plans to focus not only on functional The cosmetics, pharmaceuticals, and food industries are expected to Market Status and Outlook ingredients, but also on the development of base materials such as constantly grow due to demands for natural raw materials and differentiated natural emulsifiers and preservatives for cosmetics based on its advanced functional high-value-added materials. Bio BU focuses on developing high The cosmetics industry is expected to grow steadily driven by expansion demand in the Pharmerging1) area. In addition, the health functional food fermentation and refinement technologies, with a view to developing high value-added products by securing additional technology platforms such as of online distribution channels as well as new consumer trends whereby industry is expected to grow due to factors such as aging world population, value-added ingredients consistent with market trends. This will also help fermentation, synthesis, and formulation, other than existing extraction and customers show a preference for natural and functional materials and antiincreased awareness and interest in 'self-care’, and change in regulatory to diversify its product portfolio and expand business areas at home and refining technologies. Bio BU also plans to make aggressive investments aging products/ therapies. policies for online media development and health-functional food. Bio abroad. in DT (Digital Transformation) technology, including the development of BU is committed to providing customers with a wide range of products For pharmaceutical ingredients, Bio BU aims to enter new markets by proteins and enzymes using AI, to find new businesses, shorten the period The pharmaceutical industry is also expected to continue its growth based securing global certification, strengthening binding with large customers, of product development, reduce costs, and increase the chances of on the trend of customer focus on improving quality of life as well as and services and improving their quality of life in line with these industry and promoting acquisition of pharmaceutical manufacturing standards for development success. In addition, through efforts to diversify business and increasing spending on health care. In particular, the pharmaceutical market developments and trends. manufacturing facilities. It plans to develop differentiated ingredients to increase market share, Bio BU is preparing to take a new leap forward as a has grown due to the expansion of the market and the increase in medical enter new market for raw materials and expand its markets share at home technology-based material company that provides differentiated products and abroad. and benefits to customers. 1) Pharmerging: It is a new coined word that combines Pharma, which means pharmaceutical, and Emerging, which means emerging market; the term ‘pharmerging’ refers As for health functional food ingredients, Bio BU plans to secure to group of countries having a low position in the pharmaceutical market but having a rapid pace of growth, including BRICs countries such as India, Russia and Brazil as well effectiveness data of PS1), and to expand market share through material 1) PS(Phosphatidylserine): Component of nerve cell membrane in the brain, as emerging markets in the pharmaceutical industry such as Thailand, Egypt, South Africa, and China. marketing and ODM completion business. In addition, it will expand its contributing to the improvement of brain recognition and the prevention of dementia product portfolio by securing effectiveness data and developing new ingredients for health functional foods other than PS ingredients. 32 33 Foundation for Sustainable Growth Digital Innovation Business Market Status and Outlook Unit AI, RPA1), Big Data and other intelligent technologies are changing the whole society in areas such as industrial and national systems. Beyond one-to-one compatibility of products and services, all systems, industries and stakeholders are connected to the network, and it is recognized that interactions such as information exchange, learning, and judgment are essential. It is expected that drones and robots that can interact with the environment and people will be developed, and AI technology will be applied in the digital factory area, which will be developed as an advanced artificial intelligence plant. In addition, RPA technology will be expanded mainly around simple repetitive tasks to realize shortened work hours and minimum wage increase. New convergence services will be reviewed, and data utilization and protection will be strengthened along with the implementation of the regulatory sandbox and regulation-free special zones through ICT regulation reforms. 1) RPA(Robotic Process Automation) Digital Innovation BU is in charge of providing a comprehensive range Main Products and Services of IT services to all Doosan Group companies all around the world, including IT consulting, system integration, business systems, and IT Digital Innovation BU is in charge of infrastructure services. It utilizes SI and additional service businesses, Digitalization Service Platform/IT Infrastructure Application Development providing a comprehensive range of Development and Operation and Operation and provides IT services to enable the globalization of Doosan Group. IT services, including IT consulting, Utilizing digital technology to support customers' business innovation and Building an open innovation system Application development and digital Digital Innovation BU supports Digital Transformation of Doosan system integration, business for internal and external collaboration service based on UI/UX1) creating new revenue value opportunities Group including development of new business models, organizational systems, and IT infrastructure and maintenance of IT infrastructure for 1) UI/UX : User Interface / services, to all Doosan Group structure, and improvement of company-wide structure under the new system operation User Experience companies. name of Digital Innovation BU. 2018 Key Activities and Strategies In 2018, Digital Innovation BU provided total IT services to Doosan Group affiliates, including digitalization services, application development and operation, Sales in 2018 Global Competence Expertise and platform/IT infrastructure development and operation. Digital Innovation BU plans to strengthen its infrastructure and train specialist personnel in order No. of certificates 225.1 Overseas assignments in to support the Digital Transformation of Doosan Group companies. BU strives to provide IT services that actually contribute to the reinforcement of customer 14 673 values. In addition, Digital Innovation BU plans to provide services from the perspective of customer experience and design through Way Of Working (WOW) as well as new technology services such as AI, Deep Learning, and RPA to facilitate the Digital Transformation of Doosan Group affiliates. KRW billion regions Ratio of overseas sales 28 % 1. DDI Europe 2. DDI Headquarter 3. DDI China 34 35 Doosan Group 3. Collaboration with External Professional Networks to Enhance DT Capabilities DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION Introduction Design the Future Spark the Growth DT innovation cannot be achieved only by the enterprise. It is a product of collaboration created by convergence · Doosan Corporation, Preparing for the Future · Foundation for Sustainable Growth and connectivity between different industrial groups and technologies. As such, Doosan Corporation is & BUSINESS INNOVATION > Digital Transformation & Business Innovation strengthening its DT competencies through collaboration with outside professional networks of various industrial Business & Impacts groups. What does ‘DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION’(DT) Mean? google nine sigma While there may be differences in interpretation, DT may be broadly defined as Collaboration for AI, Cloud Open Innovation an effort by companies to adapt to rapidly changing industrial environments Strategy and gain competitiveness by utilizing the latest digital technologies. The AMAZON most important consideration in this regard is the direction of change and innovation from the perspective of companies. Doosan Corporation's answer Collaboration for AI, Big to these questions is 'opportunity'. Doosan Corporation plans to develop Data Analytics, Cloud Element.AI new technologies that add DT to its existing business and thereby secure Collaboration for AI opportunities to lead the future market. Doosan Corporation introduces Microsoft activities and efforts to strengthen corporate competitiveness through DT Collaboration for IoT innovation, including dedicated organization and expertise, base technology and Business Model Sas and capabilities, and new investments and efforts to advance into high-growth Innovation Collaboration for AI, businesses based on M&A. Cloud 1. New Organization for Promotion of DT 4. Establishment of Business Directions for BGs • Recruiting a group CDO(Chief Digital Offer) and establishing Doosan BG/BUs establish their end-to-end images and specify their mid-and long-term goals based on a group-wide organization for digitalization Digital Transformation. • Establishing new dedicated team for Digital Transformation • DT task assignment/ performance by BGs Business Division DT Directions Main Activities ⇨ Selection of Digital Master / Digital Change Agent Electro• Expanding business opportunities based on enhanced customer • Provision of proactive solutions for customers Materials BG connectivity • Smart Factory based process prediction / • Enhanced intelligent manufacturing utilizing Data / AI automation Industrial • Expanding connectivity-based businesses, products and services • Downstream platform Vehicle BG across value chains • Development of automated forklifts and operating platform 2. Recruitment and Development of DT Specialists Mottrol BG • Innovation of business model based on DT technology • Fault diagnosis and prediction of product life • Promoting digital operation excellence • Robot / automation based smart factory • Strengthening data analysis expertise • Recruitment of data analysts and AI specialists Retail BG • Utilizing virtualization and AI to provide a unique shopping • Customized shopping recommendations experience and enhance customer convenience • Smart shopping • Nurturing human resources through in-house training Basic data course Fuel Cell BG • Digital-based eco-friendly energy total solution • Advanced RMS1) based on AI Data specialist course • Product / service platform innovation • Cloud-based platform operation • In-house online data course at all times 1) RMS (Remote Monitoring System): A monitoring system that remotely detects and responds to problems based on device operating data in real-time 8 courses in 2018 36 37 40_Challenges and scope of Innovation 56_CSR Achievements and Plans Business & Impacts for the Future 58_Creating Social Value of Doosan _ 44 Realization of a People-centered Organizational Culture 61_UN Global Compact _ 48 Efforts for a safe and clean society 52_Growth Shared with Suppliers and Communities Doosan Corporation Contributes to Building a Sustainable Society 두산은 혁신적 시도를 통해 새로운 가치를 창출합니다 We will realize the sustainability of Doosan Corporation's value, leading to the creation of value in our society through implementation of social responsibility initiatives as well as solid economic performance. Doosan Group Introduction Market Leader in the Field of Battery Copper Foil, Core Design the Future Spark the Growth Business & impacts Material of Electric Vehicle Battery > Challenges and scope of Innovation for the Future Environmental Regulations and Expansion of Electric Vehicle Electro-Materials BG recognized this market shift early and · Realization of a People-centered Organizational Culture In December 2018, the European Union (EU) announced its has continued to conduct research and development on · Efforts for a safe and clean society · Growth Shared with Suppliers and Communities goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions per car by battery copper foil since 2014 when it acquired Circuit Foil, a · CSR Achievements and Plans 95g/km until 2021 (about 37% reduction when compared to Luxembourg-based copper foil manufacturer. · Creating Social Value of Doosan · UN Global Compact that of 2015), and further reducing it by about 38% until 2030 As a result, Electro-Materials BG completed the development (compared to that of 2021). In Europe, automakers have anof high-efficiency, high-end battery copper foil products to nounced their plans to release electric vehicles to cope with improve the mileage of electric vehicles and to increase the these emission regulations. Expansion of electric vehicles is density and weight of batteries. In 2018, it started the conexpected to be accompanied by the explosive growth of the struction of a 50,000 ton-per-year battery copper foil producbattery industry and a surge in demand for battery copper foil1), tion plant in the Tatabánya industrial complex in Hungary. The which form the core components of batteries. Hungary plant is capable of producing annual battery copper foil that can be supplied to 2.2 million electric vehicles at the 1) Battery copper foil: The thin copper film of the cathode part of battery time of the construction completion, thus reducing distribu(secondary battery) that acts as a path of support and electrons of the cathode tion costs and defective rate of battery copper foil in Europe. CHALLENGES AND SCOPE OF Advances and Leaps into the Battery Copper Foil Market In addition, Electro-Materials BG will respond promptly to the technical problems of products that can be generated locally, INNOVATION FOR THE FUTURE Demand for battery copper foil, the core material of electric vehicle batteries, is expected to grow at a CAGR of 44%, from 75,000 tonnes in 2018 to 975,000 tonnes in 2025. and will build a leading position in the European market for battery copper foil based on its superior product competitiveness. Why it is Important The key to corporate competitiveness is technology and innovation. Leading the areas of technology and business innovation determines not only business success but also survival of many businesses. It is time to focus on the challenge of radical innovation and the future, away from the way how the company is satisfied with the current market and focused on short-term performance. How we respond Doosan Corporation is strengthening its business competitiveness, based on preemptive market trends and technology development. In particular, it is not only strengthening competitiveness of existing businesses, but also identifying new industries that are expected to grow rapidly in various areas. Doosan Corporation will do its best to be a sustainable company that provides innovative solutions and differentiated value to its customers through continuous investment and development of future Doosan's Excellence in Battery Copper Foil Business Development of technologies. high-end technology Production scale The only battery with high rigidity and copper foil plant : 50,000 tons/year high elongation in Europe (Enough for 2.2 million (Possessed by only (Hungary) electric cars) 6 companies around the world) R&D Investments Development of New Patent Applications Products/Technologies KRW 87.5 109 150 billion cases cases Case Study Battery Copper Foil Plant in Tatabanya, Hungary : Sustainable business for future society and environment Doosan Corporation creates environmental and social value through its business and contributes to the implementation of a sustainable future society. Electro-Materials Hungary BG’s Hungary plant is considering environmental factors, starting with the site selection Link to Materiality Link to UN SDGs for construction. The construction work was started by considering the feasibility of the ㆍSecuring a new growth engine site, in harmony with the surrounding environment, and biodiversity through a pre-enviㆍDevelopment of eco-friendly products and services ronmental review to prevent damage to the local ecosystem by the construction of the ㆍExpansion of R&D investments plant. In addition to the environmental impact, it will create diverse social values such as revitalizing the local economy through continuous industrial activities and creating jobs in the local community through hiring local workers. 40 41 Doosan Group Introduction Realization of Hydrogen Economy through Byproduct Total Solution for Industrial Vehicles Design the Future Spark the Growth Business & impacts Hydrogen Fuel Cell Domestic Logistics Equipment Market, Winds of Change Downstream Business through Doosan Logipia > Challenges and scope of Innovation for the Future · Realization of a People-centered Organizational Climate Change and Hydrogen Energy Unlike engine forklifts, whose environment and safety are Doosan Logipia is a word that combines ‘Logistics’ and Culture Global environmental issues such as climate change controlled in accordance with the Construction Machinery 'Utopia’ that shows Doosan’s will to realize ideal logistics. · Efforts for a safe and clean society · Growth Shared with Suppliers and Communities have emerged as important global agenda, and the Management Act, electric forklifts mainly operated in wareDoosan Logipia is a new business launched to expand into · CSR Achievements and Plans · Creating Social Value of Doosan whole nation has come to recognize the importance houses are not subject to legal and administrative managedownstream business areas including rental of forklift, pur· UN Global Compact of protecting the environment. In particular, the move ment related to the environment and safety from production chase of used forklift and maintenance services as well as to use renewable energy to escape from the abuse of to disposal. Some companies have imported large numbers total solutions for forklifts throughout their life cycle. Doosan fossil fuels is no longer an option but a dire necessity. of old used electric forklifts from Japan and low quality forkLogipia plans to innovate the forklift market from the era of Hydrogen is one of the most prominent energy sources lifts from China. This seems to offer a temporary price benefit ownership to the era of sharing through transparent prices, among new and renewable energy sources. Hydrogen for customers, but in the long term, it is recognized as a customized products, and Quick & Smart Solutions based on is a clean energy source that produces no pollutants problem since it increases risks associated with worker safety Logipia digital platform. except for a small amount of nitrogen generated by and working environment, which in turn can burden business combustion in the air, and is a promising source of reowners and workers. In addition, poor post-management newable energy to replace fossil fuel. process for parts and repair services, combined with lack Benefits of Doosan Logipia Development of Fuel Cell Using Byproduct Hydrogen costs. Because of these advantages, many countries of price transparency for parts and repair services, has led Byproduct hydrogen means hydrogen generated as a are interested in byproduct hydrogen-fueled power to growing distrust among customers. In 2018, Industrial byproduct in processes related to petrochemical and plants, but they are only in the early development stage Vehicle BG launched Doosan Logipia to offer Total Life Time Response steel industries. When it is used as fuel for power genon a scale of 1MW. In 2017, Fuel Cell BG developed Management of logistics equipment such as trading, rental, First-time Time Standard service, disposal, and recycling for new and used equipment fix rate eration of fuel cells, nitrogen oxides, sulfur oxides and byproduct hydrogen fuel cell in cooperation with do: within price table : 90% greenhouse gases, which cause fine dust, do not get mestic parts suppliers. A total of 46 partners have based on a Digital Platform to increase customer value while 2 hours generated, while solving problem of surplus hydrogen. participated in the development over three years, while enhancing transparency and reliability of the logistics equipIn addition, byproduct hydrogen does not require the raising localization rate of main parts to 98 percent. ment market. same processes as natural gas reforming1) used in 1) Reforming: A method of extracting hydrogen from natural gas domestic and overseas fuel markets, so it has high by changing the structure of hydrocarbons by the action of heat power generation efficiency and can save investment or catalyst Excellence of Fuel Cell Principle of Fuel Cells Logipia Operating rate (%) Logistics Utopia Ideal Trends in Electron eeLogistics Fuel cell 90 transfer ePower generation Solar energy 15 O2 Offshore wind 25 eMembrane (only eOxygen(O2-) power hydrogen ions can An eco-friendly energy source with high operational reliability, wind power is suitable pass through) 1/2 O2 Industrial Vehicle BG will forge ahead with for distributed generation. H2 manufacturing and sales of forklift trucks and provide • Forklift rental H+ H+ H+ H+ Quick & Smart Products and Quick & Smart Installation area (m2/1MW) H2 • Forklift trade Services under the motto of Quick & Smart to Fuel cell 179 Hydrogen H 2O • Service H2O realize customer satisfaction. (H+) • Parts Solar energy 19,800 Water Cathode (-) Anode (+) Offshore wind 39,600 power No restrictions for installation thanks to the highest space efficiency among renewable energy modes 1. Automated Guided Vehicles 2. Doosan Logipia Booth at KOREA MAT (Materials Handling & Logistics Exhibition) World's First and Largest Byproduct Hydrogen-fueled Power Plant In August 2018, Fuel Cell BG signed a contract to supBird's-eye View of Daesan Hydrogen Fuel Cell Power Plant ply 114 byproduct hydrogen fuel cell units with a total capacity of 50 MW to Daesan Green Energy’s fuel cell power plant in Daesan Industrial Complex in Seosan City, Chungcheongnam-do. It is the world's first byproduct hydrogen fuel cell power plant to produce 40 MWh of electricity annually for 170,000 households in the Seosan area after completion in 2020. This contract will give the Fuel Cell BG an opportunity to take the lead in the byproduct hydrogen fuel cell market that 1 2 is still in its early stage. 42 43 Doosan Group Introduction Leadership Culture Formed by Exemplary Actions of Model Leaders Design the Future Spark the Growth Business & impacts · Challenges and scope of Innovation for the Future > Realization of a People-centered Organizational Culture · Efforts for a safe and clean society · Growth Shared with Suppliers and Communities · CSR Achievements and Plans · Creating Social Value of Doosan · UN Global Compact Realization of a People-centered Leaders Workshop for Change and Innovation company and discussed how to raise their members’ capaOrganizational Culture Doosan Corporation holds 'Doosan Leader Workshop' with executives, team leaders, part leaders and others every year to share and discuss diverse opinions and provide a place for bility levels, and then shared their thoughts and advice on the role of a desirable leader based on the discussions. We plan to establish an organizational culture in which leaders take effective vision sharing and improvement in the organization. the first step and continue their efforts toward change and Why it is Important In 2018, four sessions of the leaders’ workshop were held, innovation in order to build consensus on vision and increase The expression ‘Work-life balance’ comes from the word ‘work’, which means work at the workplace and starting with a business group discussion on 'vision comthe level of business growth. the word ‘life’, which means personal life after work. It is now a hotly debated topic among workers as munication' and 'business growth'. The leaders of business well as corporate houses. Despite these trends and requirements, Korean workers continue to work 2,024 groups delivered their vision for continuous growth of the hours annually, which is the third highest among OECD member countries according to OECD statistics for 2018. This shows that efforts should be made to create a healthy working life and an efficient work culture in Korea. How We Respond Doosan Corporation has implemented a healthy workplace based on an organizational culture where leaders lead by example to help solve social issues and problems and realize sustainable growth. In addition, we are pursuing long-term growth based on Doosan's 2G strategy (Growth of People, Growth of Business) through nurturing talented people. We at Doosan Corporation are committed to realizing a virtuous circle in which corporate growth provides opportunities for individuals to grow. Best Practices Doosan Credo Conference, ‘Paint the Tomorrow of Doosan’ Number of Employees Participating Training Expenses per Capita Training Hours per Capita Doosan's history over the past century is the result of its members’ spirit of in Training (Accumulated) overcoming the fear of failure and embracing new challenges for a better today KRW and tomorrow. Doosan consistently makes every effort to keep up with this orig19,267 1.46 49 inal intention. As part of this effort, the Doosan Group holds the 'Credo Conference' every million / hours / year to prepare for Doosan's tomorrow by sharing its success stories, knowpersons person person how and knowledge, and by recognizing and encouraging employees who have achieved outstanding results. In 2018, Doosan Corporation held the conference with 250 leaders and executives including the CEO, BG directors, executive officers, and CAs to share Link to Materiality Link to UN SDGs various practical examples. • Realization of a desirable organizational culture at our workplaces In particular, the 'Winning Concert' was a new program started in 2017. It took place in the morning, and was presented by representatives • Enhancement of employee competencies of BG/BUs for 4 topics: Leadership / Core Values / Lessons Learned / CA activity. In addition, we held knowledge sharing sessions in the afternoon to share various knowledge through excellent examples of fundamental competitiveness, advancement and scientification, as well as core values. The idiom “Wen Gu Zhi Xin” means that “we should learn about the past and cherish it in our bosom.” Doosan Corporation follows the idiom to develop its strengths and improve upon its weaknesses to become a sustainable company that draws yet another century. 44 45 Doosan Group Introduction Strengthening Corporate Competitiveness by Developing Healthy Workplace with ‘Work & Life Balance’ Design the Future Spark the Growth Business & impacts Employee Competencies Introducing the Total Attendance System is more accessible and convenient, and provides real-time · Challenges and scope of Innovation for the Future > Realization of a People-centered Organizational Leadership Doosan Corporation has operated a ‘Total Attendance monitoring of attendance issues and system/calendar funcCulture System’ since 2019, which integrates the existing time and tions for efficient attendance management. We will improve · Efforts for a safe and clean society · Growth Shared with Suppliers and Communities Training for Employees on Promotion List in Subseven deputy managers) were promoted in subsidiarattendance systems for management of working hours, and manage the attendance system to help our employees · CSR Achievements and Plans sidiaries in China ies in China. The manager training was conducted at · Creating Social Value of Doosan leave/reinstatement, and maternal protection application to manage their working hours efficiently. · UN Global Compact In 2018, Doosan Corporation conducted leadership Changshu Corporation in China and the deputy manenhance the convenience of working hours and attendance training for newly promoted employees in its subsidager training was conducted at the Doosan Leadership management. The mobile-enabled Total Attendance System iaries in China. This is the first training for employees Institute in Korea (DLI). The managers and deputy manworking at overseas subsidiaries to improve job perforagers took various courses to understand their roles Existing System mance by position and to make employees feel a sense and performance requirements in the new positions. of belonging through a systematic training curriculum. They were motivated by the training and expressed their In 2018, a total of 16 personnel (nine managers and desire to have continuous training every year. Attendance Working hours Leave/ management management reinstatement, Total Satisfaction Survey Result for Training I was able to learn effective communication maternal protection Attendance skills which is necessary for the future work System New deputy managers 4.7 / 5.0 PnBS My Time Portal through the training and it was a good Based on Approval, New managers 4.8 / 5.0 opportunity to clearly understand the direction My HR My HR of my work. Satisfaction Survey Result for Work Relevance Electro-Materials BG New deputy managers 4.9 / 5.0 Purchasing Part in Management Team at Changshu Corporation New managers 5.0 / 5.0 Deputy Chief, Hong-mae Hwang Operation of a PC-OFF System Doosan Corporation operates a PC-OFF system to ensure Professional efficient work and work-life balance for our employees. The 'Purchasing Academy' to Improve Expertise perts, and strengthened work relevance through practiPC-OFF system allows all office employees to install a PC Doosan Corporation has developed the 'Purchasing cal content and know-how including theories, practice, Agent on their personal PCs to use the PCs from 30 minutes Academy' course to improve the ability of purchasand case studies for each module. In addition, it is before working hours to the end of working hours, and autoing professionals to respond effectively to changing designated as an essential training for all employees, matically keep the PCs locked for other hours to make them purchase environments. The academy offers Basic, except for leaders, in charge of purchase to strengthen work more efficiently during working hours. As stipulated by Advanced, and Expert courses, among which the Adtheir motivation. Doosan Corporation plans to provide the Labor Standards Act, we manage working hours within vanced course was developed and operated in 2018. training so that all purchasing personnel can complete 52 hours per week based on the Total Attendance System. This course was developed by Doosan's in-house exthe course. Employees who want to work after the basic working hours should seek approval from their team leaders. Basic Knowledge Enhancement of Securing global Basic for Purchasing Advanced purchasing competence Expert purchase / Purchasing based on experience competence Operation Tool (Purchasing personnel (Advanced course (Purchase function with more than 2 years’ participants and Flexible Working Hour Program operated in three time zones (7:00 to 16:00, 8:00 to 17:00, new employee) experience, excluding purchasing leaders) leader) Doosan Corporation operates a flexible working hour proand 10:00 to 19:00, including lunch hour). The program aims gram to allow employees to adjust their working hours to reduce child care burden for employees with children and according to their personal situations. The flexible working support employees who need long-term care, so that they Short-term MBA Financial Knowledge, Management Skills, and Legal hour program allows employees to adjust commuting time can expand the available hours according to their needs and Electro-Materials BG conducted a short-term MBA Compliance. Internal experts have joined as instructors while complying with the existing regular working hours. It is situations. course for non-financial leaders such as team leaders, for the course to provide knowledge through various part leaders, and CA(Change Agent) to enhance their cases for modules as well as theories. Leaders attendfinancial accounting skills, allow them to develop a ing the course were able to have a comprehensive better understanding of the nature of their work, and understanding of the company's overall management improve problem solving competencies so that they and business, including finance and strategy. In addican create value for the company. The short-term MBA tion, Electro-Materials BG continues to make efforts course for Electro-Materials BG has been conducted to ensure that the short-term MBA course is a positive since 2017 and consists of four modules: Business, opportunity for inducing change in management and innovation. 46 47 Doosan Group Introduction Contribution to Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions through Design the Future Spark the Growth Business & impacts Energy Management · Challenges and scope of Innovation for the Future · Realization of a People-centered Organizational Operation of Energy Management Committee requirements and contribute toward reducing greenhouse gas Culture > Efforts for a safe and clean society The government has enacted the Low Carbon Green Growth emissions. Energy Management Committee holds four or more · Growth Shared with Suppliers and Communities Basic Act to fulfill its responsibility toward addressing climate annual meetings at the Electro-Materials BG’s Jeungpyeong, · CSR Achievements and Plans · Creating Social Value of Doosan change, and aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by Iksan, and Gimcheon plants and Mottrol BG. The Committee · UN Global Compact 37% by 2030. To accomplish this goal, the government aims also checks the activities according to a pre-established energy to request industries to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by saving plan and goals, and consultations on the operation plan. reducing their energy use. Doosan has established an Energy Management Committee for business sites, to meet national Chairman of the Energy Management Committee Directors at worksites Coordinators at CC Efforts for a safe and clean society Member Member Member Member Temporary Member Why it is Important (Electro-Materials (Electro-Materials Electro-Materials (Mottrol BG) (elected as necessary) Safety and environment are among the most important values that companies must protect. Minor BG Iksan) BG Gimcheon) BG Jeungpyeong) mistakes in safety and indifference to the environment bring back a great deal of risk for companies. Intensive prevention activities, based on basic attitudes and interests, can reduce these safety and environmental risks and strengthen corporate sustainability. Idle Power Management and Savings For Mottrol BG, main reasons for the increase in energy conDoosan Corporation has selected worksites with high power sumption are the expansion of facilities including heating and How We Respond consumption as priority control target sites (Electro-Materials cooling systems, toilets, and dust collectors for organic paintDoosan Corporation is taking the lead in maintaining a sustainable society and ecosystem by minimizing BG’s Jeungpyeong, Iksan and Gimcheon plant and Mottrol ing. Old heating and cooling system is replaced and cooling BG) to reduce unnecessary energy consumption from faciltower pump/fan automatic on/off system and heating and environmental impact, while pursuing safety as its top priority. We have reduced greenhouse gases ities at the sites during off-hours. For Electro-Materials BG, cooling system remote control system are installed to reduce through energy management, and are contributing to climate change response through our system. In air conditioners and air compressors are main facilities for idle power at the facilities. In addition, the power peak control addition, we continually implement programs to improve the level of awareness of EHS (Environment, energy consumption, and idle power is managed by installing system is operated to basic charge for power. Health & Safety) among our employees. Ultimately, we strive to create a safe and clean society through inverters, adjusting temperature control and replacing LEDs. efficient EHS management. Target Energy Saving Activities 2018 Savings Environmental Investment 2018 Energy Savings Rate of Industrial Electricity Savings (KWh) Savings (KRW Million) (Electro-Materials BG, Mortrol BG) Accidents ElectroReplacement of LED lights 378,508 48.9 11.1 0.18 0.26 Materials Installation of oven fan inverters (No. V4) 74,528 8.1 BG Installation of Heating Medium Pump Inverter (No. V2, No. V4, No. V7) 447,950 48.1 KRW billion KRW billion % Adjusting the supply temperature of 8 air conditioners by 2°C (20°C -> 22°C) 6,088 0.65 Mottrol BG Replacement of old cooling and heating systems 168,544 20.2 Link to Materiality Link to UN SDGs Cooling tower pump/fan automatic on/off control 298,921 23.9 • Response to Climate Change Installation of remote control system for cooling and heating systems 236,078 28.3 • Implementing a safe working environment 48 49 Doosan Group Introduction Best Practice Creating Safe and Healthy Working Environment for Service Design the Future Spark the Growth Business & impacts Personnel Mottrol BG, Recycled the Ministry of Environment’s Award · Challenges and scope of Innovation for the Future · Realization of a People-centered Organizational at the Excellent Resource Circulation Company Preventing Accidents by Improving Safety Culture of Service orities by collecting the inconvenience of service personnel Culture > Efforts for a safe and clean society In 2018, Jeong Gil-yong of Mottrol BG EHS Team received the Minister of Personnel on site, and setting guidelines for continuous improvement. · Growth Shared with Suppliers and Communities Environment’s Award at the Global Green Management Excellence Awards in Service personnel moves all over the sites to provide better · CSR Achievements and Plans · Creating Social Value of Doosan recognition of the reduction of pollutants and greenhouse gases. The award service and affected by a variety of external factors, including Improving Work Environment for Emotional Labor Workers · UN Global Compact reflects the excellence of Mottrol BG in EHS management. The Global Green seasonal temperature differences, traffic safety risk due to At Doota Duty Free of Retail BG, all of the employees always Management Excellence Award is a prestigious environmental award in Kovehicle operation, and physical burden of moving equipment. greet customers with friendly smiles. Service workers who rea given to companies that contribute to environment-friendly industry and Fuel Cell BG recognized the need to improve the working are primarily engaged in customer contact require close care green management. environment of service employees at sites and enhanced and support because they affect customer satisfaction of the awareness of accident prevention and EHS by discovering company. In particular, the Emotional Labor Workers Protecand improving potential safety risks. It provide rented vans to tion Act (Newly enacted article under the Industrial Safety and solve inconvenience of service personnel who operates veHealth Act), which was enforced in October 2018, requires hicle with heavy parts such as stack, reformer and gas anacompanies to provide support and responsibility for improvlyzer, and to reduce their physical burden during carrying and ing working conditions for employees who are engaged in replacing heavy goods. In addition, we provide winter clothes customer contact. Retail BG has announced in-house policy Enhancement of EHS Level at Workplace and equipment in winter for health protection against outdoor for protecting the health and safety of the emotional labor activities, and summer items for responding to heat wave workers and for response to these legal regulations. It also warnings in winter. Department managers and team Leaders strives to create a desirable distribution culture that is mutuare conducting improvement activities according to their prially respected by our customers and employees. Protection for Emotional Labor Workers 1 Precau• Support job stress prevention training, emotion recover tionary program, and counseling to relieve their stress measures • Provide poster at customer contact points to protect workers from abuse and assault • Provide the emotional labor worker protection manual to notify self-management and how to react to black consumers 2 EHS Sessions for the Field Managers Follow• Separate emotional labor workers from customers in case of up action problems such as verbal abuse and assault to secure physical and psychological stability of the workers Building EHS IT system EHS Session for Field Managers • Provide at least 2 hours of rest time for affected employees, Doosan Corporation operates an EHS IT system to Field managers have a direct impact on the on-site enhospital treatment and psychological counseling if necessary. manage its major EHS status and performance. In vironment and safety management capabilities due to • Review support and look for solutions through the emotional labor 2018, it promoted the Smart & Slimization of the systhe nature of their work or instruction to their workers. worker protection committee when legal or administrative action is tem by improving underutilized inconvenient functions Doosan Corporation has conducted “EHS Session for required Poster for Customers on Mutual Respect that are distinct because of their complicated input Field Managers” to further strengthen the EHS manmethod, lack of statistics utilization function, and agement capabilities of field managers and to share unsuitability for EHS characteristics by industry. This the importance of EHS activities and related issues. minimizes the number of input steps and checking the In 2018, a variety of programs were conducted to imstatus and analysis results of the EHS through a staprove the EHS awareness level with a management caService Worker Protection Programs of Doota Duty Free tistical/analysis function, and enables specialized funcpacity of 54 field managers in all BG/BUs, for two days. tions according to the characteristics of each BG/BU. In particular, session participants did not only take In addition, Doosan Corporation has improved usability the education passively, but also had actively shared of the existing EHS IT system by strengthening maninformation through group programs. The results of agement functions on key EHS management items, by field managers' satisfaction survey for such programs selecting common key management indicators, thus showed an average positive satisfaction rate of 90% establishing business standards and developing varior more. The sessions will be expanded to reflect the ous new functions. feedback of the participants. 50 51 Doosan Group Introduction Building a System for Shared Growth with Suppliers Design the Future Spark the Growth Business & impacts System and Roadmap for Shared Growth enhances overall competitiveness of the supply chain by pre· Challenges and scope of Innovation for the Future · Realization of a People-centered Organizational Shared growth is essential for improving corporate comventing risks related to the Fair Trade Act through fair trade Culture self-compliance activities, and by promoting diverse activi· Efforts for a safe and clean society petitiveness, developing national economy, and building a >Growth Shared with Suppliers and Communities sustainable society. Under the vision of Building a virtuous ties to strengthen suppliers’ competitiveness. Furthermore, · CSR Achievements and Plans · Creating Social Value of Doosan partnership with suppliers”, Doosan Corporation strives to Doosan has set a midto long-term direction and carried out · UN Global Compact improve suppliers’ competitiveness through shared growth. It various activities based on its midto long-term roadmap. Doosan Corporation’s Philosophy of Shared Growth • Definition of Shared Growth: Building a ‘virtuous partner ship’ with suppliers to strengthen global competitiveness Doosan • What is the virtuous partnership? All technology/quality/management systems are operated as Virtuous part of a single system including suppliers. Partnership Growth Shared with Suppliers Doosan's technology capabilities, business systems, and other unique management quality, and technology systems and Communities are shared with its suppliers to enhance their competitiveness and seek mutual growth in the global market. Partners Why it is Important Companies are members of the community and corporate citizens that should seek to live and grow Four Areas for Shared Growth together with the community. To achieve sustainable growth, they must grow and develop together with the supply chain and local communities. Mutual growth and sharing can be done by anyone, but not by Support for Strengthening Support for Overseas Financial Support Expanding Communications everyone. The practice of sharing with partners and local communities will be an important foundation for Competitiveness Expansion realizing a sustainable society. • Support group to enhance • Participation in overseas • Mutual growth fund • Cooperative meetings competitive strength exhibitions • Network loans and Partners Club How we respond • Expert consulting • Support for marketing • Management visits to • Smart factory project to overseas buyers suppliers Doosan Corporation has established guidelines for sustainable supply chain management and • Supplier hotline strengthened its supply chain CSR management system in four areas: labor/human rights, safety and health, environment, and ethical/fair trade. As part of our efforts to enhance our supply chain CSR, Establishment of a Shared Growth Team ers such as support groups for strengthening supplier’s comwe are operating an evaluation and support program for suppliers and are preparing to expand its scope Doosan Corporation established Shared Growth Team since petitiveness, consulting, and shared growth funds. Shared to overseas, secondary and tertiary suppliers. 2018 in order to strengthen its expertise in shared growth Growth Team plays a pivotal role in strengthening the overall strategy and to promote mutual growth partnerships with competitiveness of the supply chain by listening to difficulties suppliers. Shared Growth Team manages Doosan's systems experienced by suppliers and making/suggesting improveand regulations, trainings and programs to create a fair trade ments. Shared Growth Team plans to continue its activities base. The team is monitoring violations related to the Fair to drive sustainable growth in the supply chain for Doosan Trade Act and responding promptly when any issues arise. In Corporation. Total Purchases from Ratio of ESGTotal Hours of No. of Employees addition, it provides a variety of support programs for suppliSMEs considered Contracts Volunteer Participating in Volunteer KRW 709.3 59 7,255 2,328 billion % hours persons Fair Trade and Mutual Growth Agreement Ceremony Link to Materiality Link to UN SDGs • Expanding communication with suppliers • Social contribution activities aligned with nature of business 52 53 Doosan Group Introduction Project for Gap Relief Support 'Didim Seed', Financial Support and Mentoring Design the Future Spark the Growth Business & impacts The wage gap between small and medium-sized comto secondary suppliers and in-house subcontract · Challenges and scope of Innovation for the Future · Realization of a People-centered Organizational panies is a frequent issue discussed in the media, and workers, while providing the same support to SMEs’ Culture is seen as a chronic problem in our society. Doosan employees who are in charge of cleaning and security. · Efforts for a safe and clean society >Growth Shared with Suppliers and Communities Corporation has conducted a variety of shared growth In addition to the mutual growth incentives, the bene· CSR Achievements and Plans · Creating Social Value of Doosan programs and systems to contribute to solving this ficiaries can get welfare benefits such as holiday gifts, · UN Global Compact problem. In particular, since 2017, it contributed funds comprehensive health check-ups, and mutual aid. All to the Small and Medium Business Agricultural Coopbenefits are offered at the same level as our employees. erative Foundation to provide KRW 100,000 per month Mutual Growth Incentives Holiday Gifts Recipients: 2nd tier suppliers’ workers, in-house subcontract Recipients: Workers at 1st and 2nd tier suppliers, in-house workers, workers who are in charge of cleaning and security subcontract workers, workers who are in charge of cleaning and security Support: KRW 100,000 per month for Support: Gift certificates worth as incentive / increased amount in 4 major insurances KRW 100,000 for Lunar New Year and Chuseok (Number of recipients in 2019: Approx. 4,000) As of the end of 2017, more than 12,000 children were living Accounts1) of 350 children at 15 childcare facilities nationin 280 childcare facilities nationwide, according to the Nationwide. Health Checkups Mutual Aid al Statistical Office. These children are under the age of 18, In addition to financial support for the Child Development have no guardian, or are under guardians without parenting Account, Doosan Corporation also supports mentoring proRecipients: Persons over 35 years of age and their spouse Recipients: Workers and their immediate family members ability. They need help from the government or society to grams to strengthen self-leadership capabilities of children. among 1st and 2nd tier suppliers’ workers, in-house among 1st and 2nd tier suppliers’ workers, in-house stand on their own feet as members of society. Our employees serve as mentors to help children in childcare subcontract workers, workers who are in charge of cleaning subcontract workers, workers who are in charge of cleaning and security and security Doosan Corporation started the Didim Seed program to facilities so that they can grow up to be healthy members of support healthy growth of children living in childcare facilities. society. We support them to understand and enjoy various Support: Health checkup service worth Total funeral service assistance worth In 2018, we donated KRW 168 million, collected from emfields such as forming of relationships, dreams and vision, KRW 300,000 to 500,000 per person KRW 300,000 ployees’ donations and a matching amount from Doosan’s study methods, future planning, and time management support fund, to the Korean Social Welfare Council. These through fun-filled mentoring programs. funds were credited to the Didim Seed Child Development Didim Seed Child Development Accounts Best Practice 1) Didim Seed Child Development Account is a social contribution project to help children in childcare facilities come up as healthy members of society. Started 8 regions 350 children at 15 child care facilities Mutual Growth through the Gap Relief Support Project The funds are formed through the following process: if someone donates a in certain amount of money each month to the Child Development Account of The Gap Relief Support Project provides not only material support such as incentives and gift certificates, but also welfare a child less than 18 years of age, the local government will donate the same 2018 KRW 14 million donated monthly (KRW 168 million per year) benefits such as support for health checkups and funeral services. In particular, the health checkup supported by Doosan enamount up to KRW 40,000 each month through 1:1 government matching abled employees and their families of some suppliers to screen for and treat cancer. support fund. At a supplier of Mottrol BG, a worker in his 60s and his spouse found colon and uterine cancer respectively through Doosan's Didim Seed Mentoring health checkup support in 2018. Thanks to the early detection of the tumor, they have successfully completed surgery and chemotherapy, and both will take follow-up health check-ups. Electro-Materials BG has a similar case. In 2017, a subcontracRecipient: Elementary / middle school students who are tor’s worker at Iksan plant found stomach polyps through Doosan's health checkup support. After surgery, he returned to work subject to Child Development Account in a healthy condition. Self-Leadership Strengthening Program 2018 Ceremony to deliver Didim Seed Donation Funds Electro-Materials BG Mottrol BG Doosan’s Gap Supplier’s worker Supplier’s worker Recovered Relief Support Detected with early stage of Received treatment for early health after Project stomach cancer and received stage of cervical cancer chemotherapy treatment as of 2019 Health check-up Spouse of a supplier’s worker Received treatment for early stage of colorectal cancer 54 55 Doosan Group Introduction CSR Achievements and Plans Design the Future Spark the Growth Business & impacts · Challenges and scope of Innovation for the Future · Realization of a People-centered Organizational Culture · Efforts for a safe and clean society · Growth Shared with Suppliers and Communities >CSR Achievements and Plans · Creating Social Value of Doosan · UN Global Compact Activities in 2018 Plans for 2019 Midto Long-term Plans Performance Indicators Promotion of • Expansion of grievance system • Introduction of grievance system at all subsidiaries • 0 % of human rights infringement cases Turnover rate Employee satisfaction Employee survey • Human rights surveys and due diligence • Regular human rights surveys and due diligence • Establishment of human rights risk prevention system Mid-to long-term Values • Diagnosis of human rights management at • Introduction of human rights risk management process • Expanding diversity within the supply chain and expanding women's rights target Mid-to long-term target overseas worksites • Introduction of a 52-hour work week system at overseas worksites • Establishment of a 52 hour work week system 2% 80 % using Total Attendance System Talent Fos• Enhancement of job/technical training • Regular expansion of job/technical training • Verification and upgrade of job/technical training Average hours of Rate of employees working tering and training per employee at the company for more • Training for employees on promotion list at • Expansion of training for employees at subsidiaries • Management of ROI Indicators for training investments than a year after returning Respect for subsidiaries in China in China and other overseas worksites • Target setting and management of HR key management Mid-to long-term target from paternity leave Diversity • Enhancement of management skills development for female employees • Increased coverage of management skills training for female employees and maternal protection program indicators • Expansion of the retirement support program 74 hours Mid-to long-term target • Enhancement of maternal protection program • Expansion of employment for the disabled 85 % Response • Identification of idle power, setting of goal • Facility reviews for energy efficiency and idle • Application for the Energy Management System Certification (ISO50001) to Climate for savings power saving activities • Establishment of strategies to address climate change Energy reduction performance (EM BG, Mottrol BG) Savings 1,611 thousand kWh Change • Building energy management organization • Performance management by activating energy and selecting object of management management organizations and establishing KPIs Performance in 2018 KRW 178 million for power management Shared • Upgrade of the SSAP assessment questions • Enhancement of competitiveness and shared growth • Expansion of supply chain CSR for secondary and tertiary suppliers Annual mutual growth Fair trade monitoring index 2018 performance Growth and and establishment of improvement plans activities for suppliers • System for monitoring of risk from conflict minerals Fair Trade based on the results • Planning of CSR roll-out for overseas supply • Expansion of overseas roll-out of the supply chain • Establishment of a regular inspection system Mid-to long-term target Most 6 times Mid-to long-term chain and the pilot project and monitoring for risks to fair trade excellent • Monitoring of fair trade status 10 times Eco-friendly • Industrial Vehicle BG: • Electro-Materials BG: Secure new market of HF Ultra • Electro-Materials BG: Response to demand for HF Middle Loss servers Sales ratio of eco-friendly products R&D Development of electric vehicles with Loss for hi-end servers • Industrial Vehicle BG: Compliant with European Stage V regulations 2018 performance Li-ion battery • Mottrol BG: Development of new plugs with 0% • Fuel Cell BG: Development of fuel cell 500KW NG model and hydrogen Development of AI-based smart mode • Fuel Cell BG: Development of H2 operating leakage • Fuel Cell BG: Development of new 5/10KW fuel cells generator for hydrogen charging 65% (byproduct hydrogen) models Ethics • Enhancement of ethics training with • Strengthening of the ethics training system • Independently assured compliance system Online ethics training Management emphasis on areas in need of improvement • Expansion of assessment/management for areas with • Measurement and feedback on ethical management practices and results 2018 performance • Enhancement of ethical management level diagnosis high corruption risk and ethical management at overseas worksites Domestic 2,600 participants • Enhancement of communication and an ethical culture • Enhancement of communication and ethical culture with stakeholders Overseas 800 participants Social • Development of a new social contribution • Review of the reward system to strengthen public relations • Building a platform to enable employees participate in voluntary social Social contribution Participation rate of Contribution program (Child Development Account) and motivate personnel toward social contribution contribution and establishing support measures awareness social contribution • Enhancement of target/curriculum and • Activation of the Social Contribution Subcommittee • Social contribution culture for overseas subsidiaries 2018 performance 2018 performance transparency of the representative program (Time Traveler) 51 % 38 % Mid-to long-term target Mid-to long-term target 56 % 42 % 56 57 Doosan Group Measurement Method Introduction Creating Social Value of Doosan We measured the social value generated for the year by using input / output data from management activities and statistics / Design the Future Spark the Growth research data on domestic / international social costs to convert the social value into monetary value. Business & impacts 1. Social Value through Business · Challenges and scope of Innovation for the Future Social and Doosan Corporation aims to measure not only its financial performance, but also its social value considering Input / Output · Realization of a People-centered Organizational Social Costs per Unit Environmental Culture According to its impact on stakeholders and thereby upgrade the level of its social responsibility management. Social value (monetized) Impact of the Year · Efforts for a safe and clean society Management Activities · Growth Shared with Suppliers and Communities measurement reflects social and environmental impacts (Impact1)) that are not represented in traditional financial Society · CSR Achievements and Plans >Creating Social Value of Doosan statements related to a company’s activities, and measures true performance (Net Value2)) that the company Input •2018 new employees • Social costs per • Employment increase effect due to the employment provided by Doosan Corporation (+) · UN Global Compact generates. Measurements were conducted by an external professional organization. Indicators and formulae unemployed person Environment used in the measurement will be continuously supplemented and refined. Output •2018 GHG emissions • Social costs per ton of • Traditional environmental pollution GHG emissions effect caused by GHG emissions Total value reflecting Economy Society the increase and from Doosan (-) Management Traditional decrease of environCreation of economic Social contribution by activities of financial statevalue including mental/social impact corporate activities, along with economic Doosan ments dividend, interest such as employment Net profit performance Corporation payment, corporate and community value Environment Measurement Indicators tax, etc. Negative social effects In 2018, Doosan Corporation’s social value was calculated as net value based on net profit measured in terms of financial Social costs (external Net Value caused by safety accidents effects) from emission of value and the impact on 19 socio-environmental indicators that are likely to occur due to business activities. The reference such as injuries, deaths, etc. pollutants for monetary valuation was sourced from a number of foreign materials due to limitations of domestic research data. 1) Impact – Impacts arising from corporate management activities (including both intended and accidental short-term social outcomes) 2) Net Value – Total value reflecting the increase and decrease caused by environmental/social impact along with economic performance Category Indicators Impact Main activities Financial Net profit N/A Net profit generated by the company during the year, excluding expenses Measurement Results Performance (Based on the Business Report) * Excluding dividends that enhance shareholder value The results of analyzing the monetary value of various social contributions and environmental impacts from DooEconomic Shareholders Dividends + Increased shareholder value through by payment of dividends (Based on the Business Report) san's management activities in 2018 show that: the net value of the economic, social, and environmental contribuContribution tions and impacts was KRW 519.2 billion, about three times the net profit. The social value that is not represented Investors Payment of interest + Increase investor value payment of interest (Based on the Business Report) in financial statements was KRW 360.6 billion, accounting for about 70 percent of the net value of Doosan. The Government Corporate tax + Contribution to secure government funding through proper payment of taxes (Based on the Business Report) Economic contribution Social contribution Environmental impact (Unit: KRW million) Social Welfare and Wages and benefits + Increase of individual income through employee salary and welfare (+1,789) (+2,961) (-121) Contribution Employment (Based on the Business Report) 5,192 Employment + Contributing to the reduction of unemployed through providing employment11) 1,010 Contribution to Purchase amount + Contribution to the creation of a shared growth ecosystem through increasing purchase from suppliers 1,860 96 -5 -51 -19 -6 -45 Suppliers Social value Violation of fair trade Inhibition of the shared growth ecosystem due to violation of the Fair Trade Act (penalty) 3,606 525 241 Investment in the Education for the local + Social value generated by strengthening community education, infrastructure and environment 1,023 Local Community community through social contribution activities and donations2)~4) Net Profit Improvement of local + 563 1,586 infrastructure Improvement of local + Net ShareInvestor GovernWelfare ContriInvestments Impact Impact of Water Waste Impact Net value environment profit* holder interest ment tax and embution to in the local of safety greenhouse impact impact of air Safety Accident Number of deaths Social cost due to industrial accidents5) dividends ployment suppliers community accidents gases pollutants Impact * Net profit excluding dividend to shareholders Industrial accident The measurement results may not be accurate because it is explicit information based on various assumptions and references for establishing the direction of Environmental Greenhouse Total amount of emissions Social costs related to GHG emissions6) Doosan’s CSR. In addition, this information cannot be considered as part of financial disclosure since the reference used in the process of monetizing social valImpact Gases Impact ues can be supplemented and adjusted according to new research results and statistical data. Water Impact Water use and Wastewater Social cost related to water use and discharge of wastewater from business activities7)~8) discharge Measurement Principles Impact of Waste Incineration and Landfill Social costs associated with the method of disposal of landfill waste from business activities9) Doosan Corporation applied the following measurement principles for measuring social value in a reasonable and Impact of Air Emissions of air pollutant Social costs of emission by types of air pollutants generated by business activities10) clear manner. Pollutants (SOx, NOx and fine dust) 1. • Measure only the direct impact of corporate management activities on the environment and stakeholders. Net profit reflecting social and environmental impact Net Value of Doosan Corporation considering both financial / social / environmental impacts Measurement of • Apply a rational measurement method that takes into account both the social and environmental values direct impact of the enterprise References 2. • Measure the size of social benefits and costs of the outcome resulting from business activities. Rational measurement of • Measure the social impact by applying the Direct Value Estimation Method1), Relative Price Estimation 1) Financial and Economic Research (No. 364) [Recent Employment 5) Ministry of Employment and Labor, Industrial Accident Status, 2017 social benefits and cost Conditions and Measures to Address Youth Unemployment], 2009 6) Energy Economy Researcher, Social Costs Per Ton of Greenhouse Gas, 2015 Method2) and Input Cost Application Method.3) 2) G.Psacharopoulos and H.A. Patrinos, Returns to Investment in 7) (Eco-cost) http://www.ecocostsvalue.com/EVR/model/theory/ 3. Education: a Further Update, 2004 subject/5-data.html Conservative value • Apply conservative measurement method to prevent overestimation of values and ensure validity and reliability. 3) BCG, the Cement Sector: a Strategic Contributor to Europe’s Future, 8) Ministry of Environment, Average Cost of Sewage Treatment, 2017 measurement 2000 9) Dr. Jeffrey Morris , The Environmental & Economic Waste Caused 1) Direct Value Estimation Method: Estimation of value using reference values to monetize quantified figures based on causative validity of the 4) G. Hutton, Global Costs and Benefits of Drinking-water Supply by Incineration, 2008 social value (example: purchase amount of suppliers) and Sanitation Interventions to Reach the MDG Target and Universal 10) Ministry of Environment, Study on Re-evaluation of Social Cost of 2) Relative Price Estimation Method: Estimation of value using market average price and similar industrial group figures in the absence of Coverage, 2012 Air Pollutants, 2015 quantitative or monetary reference values (example: costs of treating greenhouse gases) 3) Input Cost Application Method: Estimation of value when input cost can be applied directly (example: dividends) 58 59 Doosan Group Introduction UN Global Compact Design the Future Spark the Growth Business & impacts 2. Social Value through Products Doosan Corporation joined the UN Global Compact in 2014 and have been diligently abiding by its 10 principles in the four · Challenges and scope of Innovation for the Future · Realization of a People-centered Organizational Social value of a company can be measured in two different ways; one is social value through business measurareas of human rights, labour, environment, and anti-corruption. We are committed to realizing corporate social values and Culture ing the company's impact on the society through the input and use of resources and environmental emissions, thus continue to grow sustainably through constant challenges to the future’s value innovation and sincere efforts as a global · Efforts for a safe and clean society · Growth Shared with Suppliers and Communities and the other is social value through product and service. Therefore, Doosan Corporation not only measures the corporate citizen. · CSR Achievements and Plans >Creating Social Value of Doosan social value through business but also the social value through product to identify how it contributes to society. >UN Global Compact In 2018, we measured the social value of fuel cell as part of measuring social value through product. We plan to refine the method of measurement to expand the measurement of the social value of Doosan’s products. The social value of fuel cell was measured based on three methods: ‘Eliminate’ negative factors of the existing products, ‘Improve’ negative aspects, and ‘Create’ new value. 10 Principles Method of Social Value Measurement of Fuel Cell 1 2 Eliminate negative factors related to use of existing Determination of the social value created by eliminating 1 products negative impact of existing large-scale power plants Eliminate • Avoidance of transmission and distribution investment Example Fuel cell has higher benefits from distributed Human Principle 01. Businesses should support and respect the protection of 79p. • Avoidance of water use power sources because it does not require transmission and Rights internationally proclaimed human rights; and • Avoidance of loss caused by power outage distribution facility investment and generate transmission and Principle 02. make sure that they are not complicit in activities pertaining 79p. distribution losses. to human rights abuses Areas with improved social value compared to existing Determination of the social value created by eliminating 2 products negative impact of LNG combined-cycle thermal power Improve • Improvement of air pollution generation • Reduction of greenhouse gas emission Example Fuel cells generate half of the greenhouse gas • Reduction of medical and social welfare costs due to emissions than that of LNG combined-cycle thermal power improved air quality generation 3 4 5 6 New area of value that existing products cannot create New social value from fuel cells 3 Labour Principle 03. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association 79p. • Removal of fine dust Example Prevention of social costs related to fine dust Create and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; • Heat production through filters in the fuel cell absorbing fine dust • Creation of a fuel cell ecosystem Principle 04. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 79p. 79p. Principle 05. the effective abolition of child labour; and Results of Social Value Measurement of Fuel Cell 51p. 79p. Principle 06. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment The social value created by Doosan's fuel cell was estimated at about KRW 160,000 per 1MWh, and KRW 90 and occupation. billion based on the total output of products supplied to customers in 2018. Measurement was made based on the social value measurement methodology of the Korea Productivity Center (KPC) and indicators and formula of domestic and overseas research. The measured results may vary according to the figures in the references. Doosan Corporation plans to supplement and refine these measurements to enhance the social value of its products. 7 8 9 KRW 159,442/MWh: Social Value Generated by 1 MWh Fuel Cell (Unit: KRW / MWh) 3 Create Environment Principle 07. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to 40-42p. 48-50p. 81p. KRW 60.9 billion Eliminate • Elimination of investment in transmission and distribution1) environmental challenges; 35,969 • Avoidance of water use2) • Elimination of loss from power outage3) 48-50p. 81p. Principle 08. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Total Improve responsibility; and 68% 4) • Improvement of air pollution KRW 22% 1 Eliminate 11,628 90 KRW 19.6 billion • Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions5) Principle 09. encourage the development and diffusion of environment-friendly 40-42p. 73p. billion Create • Removal of fine dust4) • Heat production6) technologies. 10% 111,845 • Creation of a fuel cell ecosystem7) 2 Improve KRW 9.5billion ※ Comparison of LNG power generation for improvement and avoidance value calculation ※ Higher social value is expected when reflecting the cost of health insurance and social welfare due to air pollution such as ultrafine dust (PM2.5) and NOx (When the UK 10 medical insurance standard8) is applied, the improved value of KRW 87,000 will be added, which can be further increased by 55%) References AntiPrinciple 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, in72p. 1) Korea Electro-technology Research Institute Report, Benefit 5) Korea Energy Economics Institute, Social Costs Per Ton of corruption cluding extortion and bribery. Unit of Distributed Power Source Greenhouse Gas, 2015 2) Eco-cost) http://www.ecocostsvalue.com/EVR/model/theory/ 6) Korea Energy Economics Institute, Study on the Diffusion of New subject/5-data.html and Renewable Energy, 2017 3) KEPCO, Cost of Loss per Minute in Case of Power Outage, 2015 7) Korea Exchange, Operating Margin of Listed Companies in Korea, Power Statistics System, Annual Average Outage Time, 2013 2018 4) Ministry of Environment, Re-evaluation of Social Costs of Air 8) Public Health England, Estimation of Costs to the NHS and Socia Pollutants, 2015 Care due to the Health Impacts of Air Pollution, 2018 60 61 64_CSR Strategy and Key Activities 75_Customer Satisfaction · CSR Quality Management 66_ Transparency of Governance·Stakeholder Engagement 77_Talent Management 68_Interview with experts 80_Environment and Safety Management Management 70_Risk Management 82_Supply Chain Management 72_Anti-corruption·Ethical Management·Fair Trade 83_Social Contribution 73_Research and Development Doosan’s CSR management is a promise to its stakeholders We aim to create present values based on the technology and experience accumulated from past management activities, and continue to change and challenge for the future. Doosan Group Introduction Design the Future Spark the Growth CSR Strategy and Key Activities Business & Impacts CSR Management >CSR Strategy and Key Activities · Transparency of Governance·Stakeholder Engagement · Interview with Experts · Risk Management CSR Value Structure ·CSR Subcommittee ·Expansion of CSR to Overseas Subsidiaries ·Key Achievements · Anti-corruption·Ethical Management·Fair Trade Doosan Group declared its firm resolution to practice Seven CSR subcommittees are formed in categories of Doosan operates 30 production bases and subsidiaries/branchBy promoting key tasks of each subcommittee, we achieved · Research and Development · Customer Satisfaction·Quality Management CSR management and create a “Proud Global Doosan” human rights, EHS, R&D, shared growth, ethics, personal es in 15 countries around the world, and promotes CSR-based dissemination of an ethical culture, reinforcement of communi· Talent Management on the basis of Doosan Credo . Moreover, to anticipate information and social contribution, they discuss relevant · Environment and Safety Management management at both domestic and global sites. With the estabcation, reinforcement of the human rights risk management proand promptly respond to the various CSR requirements CSR issues on a quarterly basis. The related matters are cedure, promotion of work-life balance, reinforcement of com· Supply Chain Management lishment of a CSR management system for global sites in 2016 · Social Contribution and standards within and outside Korea, a group-wide shared to BG/BU Operation Meeting and reported to petitiveness through evaluation and support for subcontractors, as the start, we expanded the system to 4 subsidiaries in China Appendix CSR strategy has been established consisting of clearCSR Committee. expansion of the effectiveness of CSR programs, strengthening (Electro-Materials Changshu/CFAP Zhangjiagang, Industrial ly-defined objectives and missions, in four key areas and of transparency, etc. Vehicle DIVC, and Mottrol DMJC) in 2017, and to subsidiaries ten priority tasks. Doosan Corporation has been practicBG/BU CSR Operation Meeting located in the United States and Luxemburg (Fuel Cell DFCA, ing CSR management based on Doosan Group's CSR The entire BG/BUs of Doosan Corporation separately Electro-Materials CFL, Industrial Vehicle DIVAC, and DDIA) in value framework. run operation meetings for discussing CSR issues and 2018 In particular, as the necessity to increase business values making decisions periodically. An operation meeting is through CSR is growing within society, we added ‘CSR supervised by the head of each BG/BU and carried out by Value Creation’ and expanded the CSR area, which used the executives and relevant team leaders every quarter. to focus on CSR risk management activity such as meetDuring the meeting, contents discussed at CSR Commiting legal regulations and industrial standards, to undertee and Subcommittees are shared, and key activities to CSR Goals Join the Global standing and creating social values. be handled at BG/BU level are established for improvement activities. 100 Most SustainCSR Governance able Companies in Doosan’s CSR decision-making assembly consists of Key CSR Activities the World Index* CSR Committee, CSR Subcommittees, and BG/BU level ·Operation of the CSR team by 2025 CSR Operation Meeting that is operated in accordance Doosan Corporation operates a CSR team dedicated to with the initiative body. carrying out CSR management more effectively. The CSR team diagnoses the CSR management activities in order to survey economic, environmental and social risks and CSR opportunities, and identifies and carries out improvement Supporting Responsible and Sustainable Growth CSR Mission Committee tasks for each subcommittee and BG/BU based on this. In addition, the team establishes a direction of CSR operation at company level and identifies CSR trends frequently to share with the management and subcommittees. CSR Priorities Respect for Reliable Responsibility CSR Value BG/BU (Focus Area) People Operating in Engagement Creation Sub· External Communication of CSR Performance Operation committee Meeting Doosan Corporation publishes its CSR report each year in order to transparently communicate its achievements and plans with its stakeholders inside and outside. Doosan CSR Priorities 1. Nurture a culture of 4. Enhance fair operations and 7. Incorporate business values to 9. Implement businesses that (Main Tasks) respecting human rights supply chain CSR enable sophisticated community create CSR value · CSR Committee prepares for DJSI (Dow Jones Sustainability Indices) as2. Fair employment 5. Green management and involvement activities 10. Improve monitoring of CSR As Doosan’s supreme decision-making body, the CSR sessment that comprehensively evaluates economic, so3. Establish a safe climate change mitigation/ 8. Reinforce disclosure of performance Committee develops CSR strategic directions, reviews cial and environmental performance of global companies workplace environment adaptation corporate information (CSR) CSR-related management activities, and inspects the around the world, and has been included in ‘DJSI Asia 6. Strengthen product quality /service responsibility progress of improvement tasks and implementation Pacific’, which refers to businesses of the Asian region in plans. The CSR Committee is composed of representathe top 20%, for five consecutive years. Doosan has been tives from all of the company's BG/BUs, Corporate Cenrated A or above since 2011 in the ESG (Environment, Enablers Doosan Values Demands of Society ter, and Administration Center, as well as executives from Social, Governance) evaluation conducted by Korea Corits key departments. CEO of Doosan Corporation serves porate Governance Service. In 2018, we obtained overall Develop Strong CSR Governance The 9 Core Values of Doosan Global CSR Initiatives as the chairperson, with the relevant officers assuming A+ with governance (A), environmental (A+) and social (A+). Execution system/Commitment People, Cultivating People, Integrity UN SDGs/ISO26000/UN Global responsibility for seven subcommittees, namely, the huby management /Employees' and Transparency, Inhwa, Customers, Compact/GRI man rights, EHS, R&D, shared growth, ethics, personal 2016 2017 2018 Awareness on Social Responsibility World-class Technology and Innovation, information, and social contribution. The heads of BG/BU Profit, Social Responsibility, Safety and DJSI Asia Pacific / participate in the CSR Committee as members to enable Assessment Environment Korea Class Incorporation each business division to aggressively promote CSR activities. The CSR Committee holds two meetings per year, ESG Evaluation A A A+ * Standards published by the World Economic Forum, Davos, Switzerland which serve as a forum for designing improvement plans through in-depth discussion on key CSR issues. 64 65 Doosan Group Introduction Transparency of Governance·Stakeholder Engagement Design the Future Spark the Growth Business & Impacts CSR Management · CSR Strategy and Key Activities >Transparency of Governance·Stakeholder Engagement Transparency of Governance · Interview with Experts · Risk Management Diversity of Outside Directors a compensation package consisting of salary, incentive pay, and The Board of Directors(BOD) is responsible for deliberating functions of the BOD is reinvigorated. Directors who have inter· Anti-corruption·Ethical Management·Fair Trade Doosan Corporation strives to secure the diversity of its board memseverance pay, which is determined in a fair and transparent manner · Research and Development and voting on major business issues and making decisions ests in specific matters are restricted from voting on such mat· Customer Satisfaction·Quality Management on matters stipulated by laws and corporate by-laws, matters ters. There are three committees under the BOD (including the bers in terms of expertise as well as individual capabilities based on in accordance with the executive management policy. · Talent Management various procedures for organizing its BOD. In particular, Doosan orga· Environment and Safety Management delegated by the general shareholders’ meeting, and other Audit Committee), each of which is composed solely of outside · Supply Chain Management important matters related to the company’s basic management directors so as to ensure independence and transparency. For nizes the BOD to make decisions considering diverse viewpoints on its Stakeholder Communication · Social Contribution policies and operations. Doosan selects outside directors the Audit Committee to perform audits effectively, the commitmanagement, including gender, specialization, industrial experience, The BOD interacts with Doosan’s stakeholders through internal Appendix among professionals who can supervise company managetee may request a report on the company’s operations or an and origin. and external communication channels such as disclosures and IR ment objectively from the outside perspective. investigation into the status of its corporate assets. If deemed events. To promptly provide management information to shareholdAs of the end of 2018, the Board consists of seven directors, necessary for auditing, the committee may also request the relEvaluation and Compensation ers and stakeholders, decisions made at the general shareholders' of which three are internal directors and four are outside direcevant employees or external auditors to attend meetings while Directors’ compensation is determined within the director compenmeeting and key decisions on business operations are disclosed tors. There are three committees established under the Board, seeking advice from experts at the company’s expense. sation limit approved by the general shareholders' meeting. Outside immediately. which are composed wholly of outside directors: the Audit directors receive standard fixed pay, whereas inside directors receive Committee, Internal Transaction Committee and the Outside Procedure and Standards for the Appointment of Director Candidate Nominating Committee. Outside Directors BOD Committees To fully enable the BOD’s role in promoting checks and balances, BOD Operations Doosan preserves the independence of the outside directors Audit Committee Internal Transaction Committee Outside Director Candidate Nominating Committee Doosan Corporation makes decisions on major items of pursuant to the stringent requirements set forth by commercial Members Du-hee Lee, Seong-gwan Cheon, Hyoung-joo Kim, Sung-gwan Chun, Hyoung-joo Kim, Bok-hyeon Doo-hee Lee, Hyoung-joo Kim, Bok-hyeon Baik agenda and integrates shareholders' feedback into the decilaw. Outside director candidates are nominated by the OutBok-hyeon Baik Baik sion-making process through the BOD for more careful delibside Director Candidate Nominating Advisory Group, which is ResponAudit the company’s accounting and business Deliberate on and approve internal transactions Recommend outside director candidates eration. Pursuant to the applicable laws, Doosan allows all dicomposed of three external experts, and the total number of sibility operations and review operational status of the pursuant to the Fair Trade Law rectors to participate in the decision-making process by means candidates is maintained at less than 2 times of the number of internal accounting management system such as real-time voice communication, whereby directors outside directors to be selected at the general shareholders’ Activity Review the outcomes of accounting audits performed Approve interaffiliate transactions, etc. Recommend outside director candidates, etc. are deemed present at the relevant BOD meetings. The BOD meeting. Further, the nominated candidates are recommended Description by external auditors, provide consultations on noncan host ad-hoc meetings when deemed necessary, and can to the Outside Director Candidate Nominating Committee. The audited services, review the operational status of the also delegate a portion of its authority to the BOD committees Outside Director Candidate Nominating Committee, consisting of internal accounting management system, etc. to ensure swift and efficient decision-making, in which cases three outside directors, reviews the candidates’ suitability based thorough reviews are performed and the details of deliberation on considerations such as establishing transparent corporate and outcomes are reported to the BOD. Meetings of the BOD governance and enhancing expertise of the BOD, and selects Stakeholder Engagement are convened when a majority of the directors are present, and the most qualified persons from the outside director candidates decisions are made based on concurrence by the majority of nominated by the Outside Director Candidate Nominating AdviDoosan Corporation defines its stakeholders as those who communication channels to listen to stakeholders’ opinions and directors. If a quorum with weighted voting is required by the sory Group. The selected candidates are appointed as outside wield direct or indirect influence on its business activities. Based reflect them in its management. The outcomes of stakeholders’ laws and regulations, such a quorum is held. Directors cannot directors after approval of the general shareholders’ meeting. on this definition, key stakeholders include shareholders, invesparticipation are reflected in Doosan’s management activities. vote by proxy, and directors with personal interests in certain tors, customers, employees, suppliers, local communities, and Further, the achievements of our major activities are disclosed agenda items cannot vote when such agenda is raised for Approval on Key Matters government agencies. Doosan consistently employs diverse transparently in the annual CSR Report. voting. In 2018, the BOD met twelve times with an average The BOD approves key management issues, including the attendance rate of 94%. disposal or transfer of important assets and the borrowing of assets worth large amounts pursuant to the relevant statutes or Channels for Stakeholder Engagement Independence of BOD internal regulations. In 2018, the BOD approved 50 cases that The BOD maintains three or more outside directors, thus satiswere referred to it, including the 82nd Annual Financial StateStakeholders Major Issues Communication Channels fying the target it set, namely, that outside directors should alment and the Business Report. The details of such issues are Customers • Handle customer complaints and strengthen customer satisfaction • VOC • Technical review meetings ways make up the majority of all directors. This way, balanced disclosed in the Business Report and other related documents initiatives • Customer satisfaction surveys and objective decision-making is facilitated, while the checking to ensure transparency. • Improve product quality and strengthen accountability Shareholders • Ensure shareholders and investors’ participation in the decision• General shareholders' meetings Name in Full Major Career Duties Date of First Appointment & Investors making process through general shareholders' meetings • Disclosures • IR events • Website Inside Jeong-won Park (Present) Chairperson of Doosan Corporation CEO, President of Board of Directors 2016 • Healthy corporate governance Directors Hyun-soo Dong (Present) Vice chairperson of Doosan Corporation CEO 2018 Employees • Job satisfaction and improvement of welfare • Employee surveys • Corporate newsletters • Active organizational communication • In-house intranet • Labor-management council Min-chul Kim (Present) Vice president of Doosan Corporation CEO 2018 • Build mutually beneficial labor relations Outside Sung-gwan Chun (Present) Advisor to Kim & Chang Law Firm Audit Committee 2019 Directors (Former) Director of Seoul Central District Prosecutor's Office Local • Regularly gather feedback from local communities • Volunteer activities Communities • Support the growth of local communities in the vicinity of worksites • Discussions and meetings with local communities Bok-hyeon Baik (Present) Professor at Seoul National University Business School, Audit Committee 2019 • Sisterhood ties and partnerships (Present) Vice chairperson of Korea Accounting Information Association Government • Legal and regulatory compliance • Participation in government-led projects Doo-hee Lee (Present) Professor at Korea University Business School, Audit Committee, 2018 • Public-private cooperative partnerships • Partnership agreements with governmental and public (Present) Chairperson of Korea Management Association Outside Director Candidate Nominating Committee organizations Hyoung-joo Kim (Present) Professor at Seoul National University, Engineering College, Audit Committee, 2017 Suppliers • Assist suppliers in strengthening competitiveness and capacity • Cooperative Council • Hotline (Former) Vice Dean of Seoul National University, Computer Engineering Department Internal Transaction Committee, Outside Director • Facilitate the sharing of information • Technical review meetings Candidate Nominating Committee 66 67 Introduction Doosan Group Design the Future Spark the Growth Introduction Business & Impacts Design the Future Spark the Growth Interview with Experts CSR Management Business >CSR Strategy& Impacts and Key Activities · Transparency of Governance·Stakeholder CSR Management Engagement ·· CSR Strategy and Key Activities Interview with Experts · Transparency of Governance·Stakeholder · Risk Management Engagement · Anti-corruption·Ethical Management·Fair Trade >Interview with Experts · Research and Development · Risk Management · Customer Satisfaction·Quality Management Doosan Corporation interviewed experts to identify customer relations, shared growth with suppliers, · Anti-corruption·Ethical Management·Fair Trade Recent corporate social contribution activities tend to focus on specific · Talent · Management Research and Development and reflect key issues related to its CSR activities environment, and CSR. The experts were inter· Environment and Safety Management social problem solving and practical change of beneficiaries. To this end, · Customer Satisfaction·Quality Management · Supply Chain Management along with surveys on stakeholders’ expectations. viewed individually, and the questions were reorga· Talent Management many companies are measuring and improving performance of their social ·· Social Contribution Environment and Safety Management It listened to the opinions of experts on the current nized so as to assist the stakeholders’ understandcontribution activities. Doosan’s major social contribution programs, such Appendix · Supply Chain Management · Social Contribution status of Doosan Corporation and the direction it ing of the issues. as ‘Time Traveler program’ and ‘Woori Doori’, reflect the recent corporate Appendix will have to take in terms of corporate governance, social contribution activities. They are exemplary and leading social contribution programs in which professional researchers measure practical changes of beneficiaries and performance of programs is continuously improved. Kyong-wun Lee, Head of CSR Operations Plan M Co., Ltd. Jae-eun Kim Research Fellow The Institute for Industrial Safety, health and environment have become the top priority values of Policy Studies sustainable business management globally. Therefore, South Korea needs to establish business continuity plans to manage risks and identify new risk factors associated with the 4th Industrial Revolution. Doosan Corporation The domestic industries are showing increased interest and making investIl-gyu Lee has the will to implement ceaseless changes in EHS by establishing the ments in social values, along with increased use of indicators to evaluate Director of Eco-Friendly Business Continuity Management System (BCMS). It is also impressive to performance. Accordingly, companies need to take social values as a Management Office see the implementation of advanced safety systems to achieve business part of corporate management and reflect the consumption pattern of the Korea Environmental Industry sites completely free of hazardous chemical substances. I look forward M-Z generations that received environmental education on their corporate and Technology Institute to seeing Doosan Corporation become a global safety leader that meets strategies. I look forward to seeing Doosan Corporation lead the market as expectations of communities, consumers, and future global buyers. a social value creator by setting adequate social missions and scales. Response to climate change is now regarded as a factor that affects growth and subsistence of companies. This means that climate change should be recognized as a risk rather than an optional management effort. Doosan Corporation Chi-woo Bae, The Head of Safety Support Division engages in a variety of climate change response activities, and has a clear intent Korea Industrial Safety Association to resolve environmental issues by using high-efficiency and eco-friendly energy through its fuel cell business. I expect to see Doosan Corporation create even greater values by building a governance feedback system that can be shared with partner companies and community residents at each business site. Jae-yeong Kang Director of Shared Growth Committee Operation Korea Foundation for Cooperation of Large Kyung-il Kim, Professor of Psychology & Small Business, Rural Affairs Ajou University As we enter into the era of the 4th Industrial Revolution, large companies of Korea are showing posThe core organizational capacity for the future is largely divided into the concepts of ‘agile organization’ and itive changes in terms of awareness of shared growth. However, they are still bound to conventional ‘empowerment.’ Agile organization refers to an organization that engages in active small-scale communications partnerships in the fields. Doosan Corporation must propose a program of virtuous circle that turns by breaking existing boundaries. Empowerment refers to increased autonomy of workers in making decisions sustainability of partners into competitiveness and competitiveness into growth and scale-up of partat work. I believe that Doosan Corporation is making proper attempts in the direction of empowerment through ners. There must be a realistic evaluation system that accounts for the opportunities and challenges Leader’s Action Plan (LAP), Junior MBA, and diversification of grievance channels. I support the efforts of presented by the 4th Industrial Revolution during CSR evaluation of partners. In addition, I hope to see Doosan Corporation to find new avenues for improvement and horizontal union within the organization. Doosan Corporation achieve a sustainable supply chain with 1st, 2nd, and even 3rd tier partners. 68 69 Doosan Group Introduction Design the Future Spark the Growth Risk Management Business & Impacts CSR Management · CSR Strategy and Key Activities · Transparency of Governance·Stakeholder Engagement · Interview with Experts > Risk Management Risk Management System twice a year. At the CSR Committee, CEO of Doosan CorEmerging Risks analyzing the political, economic, social, technological, legal, regula· Anti-corruption·Ethical Management·Fair Trade Doosan Corporation carries out risk management of all busiporation, head of BG/BUs and directors of subcommittees Emerging risks mean risks with high uncertainty that can occur in a tory, and environmental factors of the macroscopic environment re· Research and Development · Customer Satisfaction·Quality Management ness activities at all its worksites across the world. Risks are inspect enterprise-wise activities and achievements related to long term. These emerging risks must be identified and managed lated to company business. Furthermore, we constantly implement · Talent Management managed by classifying them into financial and non-financial sustainability risks, and identify and manage factors requiring preemptively as they can have a significant effect on the business. and monitor plans to mitigate each risk after determining the priority · Environment and Safety Management · Supply Chain Management categories for more systematic enterprise-wide risk manageimprovement. Doosan promotes long-term stability of management by building an based on the time of its possible occurrence and its potential impact · Social Contribution ment. emerging risk management system. We identify emerging risks by on business. Appendix Internal Control System Risk Management System Doosan Corporation operates internal control assessment systems to secure the transparency and reliability of inforKey Emerging Risks Potential Impact on Business Risk Mitigation Activities mation. The Doosan Internal Control Assessment System Financial Risk Risks related to market, credit, liquidity, exchange, etc. Changes in • Market changes attributable to new • Business falling behind in the • Analysis of market opportunities for (DICAS) includes not only internal accounting management systems but also items related to operational efficiency and Technologies technological trends market as it fails to capture new technological changes growth opportunities in a timely • Introduction of the Product • Risks related to sales, cost, quality, investment, compliance as risk factors subject to monitoring and control. customer, industry, banking, etc manner Development Roadmap and Non-financial It assesses every aspect of the company’s business opera• Risks related to climate change, environment, Technology Development Roadmap Risk tions, including but not limited to finance, sales, purchase, health and safety, supply chain, compliance, ethics, human rights, reputation, taxes, etc. and production. All BG/BU of Doosan Corporation perform a Fluctuations in • Slow growth of existing main • Decreased sales of existing main • Reshuffle of product portfolio: Focus quarterly internal assessment by team, whereupon the ComMarkets and markets products on high-performance, high valuepliance Team inspects their performance. The outcome of the Business • Decreased profitability due to decline added products Subcommittees • Intensified price competition due to assessment is reported to the Audit Committee and the BOD excessive supply in selling prices and competition for • Expansion of business lines: Provide CSR Committee via the CFO and the CEO based on the internal accounting • Emergence of new competition securing supply volume total solutions across the entire value management system and the Act on External Audit. elements • Decrease in market share chain, veering away from existing CSR Team business lines Human Rights EHS R&D • Focus on increasing sales in • Respect for • Safety/health • Development Internal Control Assessment Procedure and human rights • Prevention of of eco-friendly Structure of Executive Authorization overseas/emerging markets • Improvement of environmental products life quality pollution • Life-cycle • Talent • Climate change assessment Request Request test development test review Procurement • Supply imbalance of imported raw • Disruption of production due to • Diversification of supply channel of Ethics Shared Growth Personal Social Contribution • Anti-corruption Information of Raw materials (if export of raw materials shortage of raw materials raw materials • Supplier evaluation • Participation in guidance and educational • Personal local communities Designing Test Test Materials is limited by supplying countries • Customer dissatisfaction and damage • Internal control support information and support test (self-test) & Review to corporate image due to failure to • Subcontractor protection activities based on their priority on domestic management policy and • Fair competition system industries) deliver ordered products in a timely Reject manner (request re-test) Climate Change • Strengthened environmental • Market opportunities lost by failing to • Update of the Product Development CFO & CEO Report/Approval Management of Financial Risk and regulations comply with environmental regulations Roadmap and Technology Doosan Corporation focuses on financial risk management Environmental • Depletion of fossil fuels/unstable Development Roadmap considering with the aim of improving its financial structure and enhancRisks supply environmental impact Review ing efficiency in the execution of funds in order to facilitate Review by • Promotion of product innovation by Audit Disclosure external Committee/ using alternative energy as energy stable and continuous management in conditions where risks auditors BOD sources are likely to arise in connection with market, credit, liquidity, and exchange rates. In particular, the company focuses on improving its financial structure and enhancing its fund manSince 2018, Doosan has been managing risks by applying agement efficiency. Financial risk management is primarily led the internal control assessment system to its overseas subby the Treasury Team, which sets financial risk thresholds and sidiaries and branches around the world, including those in management policies by closely working with other relevant the United States and Europe. In 2019, we intend to reinforce teams, while identifying, evaluating, and hedging financial preventive activities against possible risks by defining enterrisks. In addition, Doosan aims to minimize the impact of poprise-wide risks and key management points at leadership tential financial risks through regular monitoring. level. In response to strengthened audits by external auditors based on the recent amendment to the Act on the External Management of Non-financial Risks Audit of Shareholding Companies, we are restructuring the Non-financial risks are managed by dividing them into busiinternal accounting control system with a professional externess and sustainability risks. Each of Doosan’s BG/BU mannal accounting firm. We plan to improve the transparency of ages business risks in-house, while sustainability risks are accounting and the level of management on risks through managed by the CSR team of Corporate Center overseeing these responses to changes and the restructured internal acthe entire BG/BUs in collaboration with the relevant departcounting control system. ments. Also, Doosan Corporation holds the CSR Committee 70 71 Doosan Group Introduction Design the Future Spark the Growth Anti-corruption·Ethical Management·Fair Trade Research and Development Business & Impacts CSR Management · CSR Strategy and Key Activities · Transparency of Governance·Stakeholder Engagement Anti-corruption and Ethical Management Enhancement of Technological Competitiveness · Interview with Experts · Risk Management Doosan’s Code of Conduct agement and compliance through special education by key Market-based Technological Competitiveness > Anti-corruption·Ethical Management·Fair Trade To ensure sustainable growth and fulfill its corporate social rework function (purchase, financing, etc.). Doosan Corporation practices technology-oriented management that Doosan Corporation’s technology-oriented management system > Research and Development · Customer Satisfaction·Quality Management sponsibility, Doosan has enacted its Code of Conduct, which leads innovation in technologies, products, and solutions based on PRM/TRM • Analysis of market/technology trends → Development of · Talent Management serve as the guiding principles for employees in performance midto long-term technological strategies Anti-corruption for Suppliers and Employees market and customer requirements and analysis of rapidly changing · Environment and Safety Management of their duties. Doosan’s Code of Conduct comprises Inhwa, Doosan conducted an anonymous questionnaire survey technology trends. Doosan steadily explores and preemptively secures R&D Projects • Inspection of achievements and risks of core tasks · Supply Chain Management Review • Enhancement of capability to execute R&D projects · Social Contribution customercentered business philosophy, and transparent on 359 of its suppliers to prevent corruption or malpractice innovative technologies in order to develop, in a timely manner, marAppendix management. Doosan encourages its suppliers as well as all by analyzing the status of the ethical business practices of ket-leading products according to its midand long-term business stratReviewing • Application and enhancement of new development Development of processes → Preemptive development of products/ its employees to comply with the Code of Conduct. Doosan their employees. In addition, we assessed the level of ethiegies. All of Doosan Corporation’s BG/BUs regularly establishes PRM 1) New Products/ technologies has also enacted detailed regulations and adhered to the cal business performance and anti-corruption behaviors of and TRM2) with specific action plans, and have reoriented their midand Technologies Code of Conduct so as to embed the code in the daily work all our employees and shared improvements with relevant long-term growth objectives towards rapid growth and a highly profitTechnology • A forum for discussing technology-oriented management and life of its employees. departments to reflect establishment of the anti-corruption able business portfolio, based on an analysis of changes in markets and Management and business innovation, guided by Doosan Corporation’s Summit vision in pursuit of sustainable growth evaluation and management system. Further, we carried out the technological environment. → Presentation of innovation examples of leading activities for improving leaders’ awareness (spreading cases companies and brainstorming to find directions for Click the following link to view further details concerning Doosan’s 1) Product Roadmap of social issues, etc.), delivery of ethic letters (special days technology-oriented management Code of Conduct 2) Technology Roadmap → Sharing of the execution process and outcome of http://www.doosan.com/kr/csr/csr-code/code-of-conduct/ such as holidays), opening of supplier communication chantechnology innovation nel (hotline), to ensure that our ethical business policies are Enhanced Ability to Practice Technology-oriented ManAnti-corruption and Ethics Education reflected throughout the value chain. agement Establishment of Enterprise-wide Integrated IP Strategy To enhance an ethical business mindset among its employTo enhance its ability to practice technology-oriented management, Doosan Corporation has established an enterprise-wide IP strategy in ees, Doosan Corporation conducts ethical business educaWhistleblowing System Doosan operates various assemblies organized and managed by the connection with its midand long-term R&D road map (PRM/TRM), tion each year and collects sworn statements from all of its Doosan has set up an internal confidential reporting system CEO. Long-term technological strategies based on the market and and secured an IP-based system to enhance R&D. It releases new employees requiring them to observe the Code of Conduct. to establish transparent and fair implementation of ethical technology trends are established through sessions of PRM/TRM, which market-leading products by analyzing patents of competitors and cliIn addition to ethical business education programs including management. By keeping the details of such reports confiis the core system of technology-oriented management. Further, the peents during the R&D planning stage and pioneering differentiated techonline and offline trainings and workshops, in 2018, Doosan dential, Doosan protects informants and ensures that they do riodic R&D Project Review Session inspects newly started projects and nologies and strategic IP. In 2018, Doosan Corporation awarded the provided online education for office workers and offiline edunot suffer any disadvantages. Major issues are investigated the progress of ongoing R&D projects. In addition, sustainable growth is Technology Management Award for sharing exemplary IP activities and cation for technical workers at overseas subsidiaries in seven and reported to the CEO and the Audit Committee. Doosan promoted at Technology Management Summit by sharing division-wise achievements at the ‘Technology Management Summit’ supervised by different languages: English, Chinese, French, Vietnamese, Corporation operates a cyber whistleblowing center at its German, Czech, and Korean. In 2019, we plan to expand website, where anyone can file a report either anonymousperformance and future technology trends. In 2018 in particular, we the CEO. education on Code of Conduct all year long through general ly or under their real name. In 2018, it received 13 tip-offs arranged a forum to discuss the direction of projects through sharing of meetings and discussions for suppliers, and additionally conconcerning violations of Doosan’s anti-corruption policies or performances and trends that focus on digital transportation and IP1). duct face-to-face education not only for employees of newly Code of Conduct. Based on these reports, Doosan improved 1) Intellectual Property established subsidiaries and new employees, but also for the internal business processes, conducted preventive eduthose who have not completed online and offline trainings. In cation, and took disciplinary action against those concerned. addition, we will consolidate the foundations for ethical manDevelopment of Environment-friendly Products Fair Trade Initiatives for Development of Eco-friendly Products print recognition modules Electro-Materials BG places efforts to develop eco-friendly materiProgram for Compliance with Fair Trade Regulations duties. We also concentrated on preventing violations of the law 1) RoHS II: Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive adopted by als in the field of electronic products. It has created an eco-friendly the EU to restrict hazardous substances in electronic and electrical Since 2004, Doosan Corporation has operated a compliance by monitoring fair trade practices while providing our employees product portfolio on the R&D road map to develop products based equipment (4 out of 6 RoHS Phthalates: DEHP, BBP, DBP, DIBP) program with fair trade regulations in order to promote transwith education on the Act on Fair Transactions in Subcontracton eco-friendly materials (lead-free, halogen-free, dust-free materials, 2) SVHC: Substances of Very High Concern parent and legitimate business activities and foster a culture ing, Act on Fair Agency Transactions, and Act on Fair TransacEV batteries, low-power display materials, etc.). In addition, products of compliance with fair rules while fulfilling its corporate social tions in Large-scale Franchise, and Retail Businesses. Doosan Industrial Vehicle BG develops eco-friendly products by enhancing are designed to use less hazardous ingredients in the development responsibility. In 2018, we reflected, enacted and revised laws, plans to continue providing such education for its employees energy efficiency and fuel economy, minimizing emission of harmful stage, avoiding the use of toxic solvents and managing environand published and distributed a subcontract transaction guide while strengthening the monitoring of fair trade practices. gases, and increasing the replacement cycle of consumable parts. book and a branch transaction guidebook to allow working-levmental factors according to the EHS impact assessment (hazardThe BG launched the nation’s first lithium-ion battery forklifts and is el employees to apply compliance to the performance of their ous raw materials, raw material MSDS, etc.). In the intermediate now in expansion of their supply. In 2018, it signed an MOU to supdevelopment stage, the hazardous substance review tests(RoHS 1) 2) ply 2,500 lithium-ion battery forklifts to a large Korean distribution II , SVHC , etc.) are applied to verify that products do not violate Organizations responsible for compliance program with fair trade regulations company. Furthermore, it has introduced a hazardous substance the international restrictions of hazardous substances. In 2018, BG management system in collaboration with Korea Institute of IndustriCEO developed eco-friendly and halogen-free products with features such al Technology to manage hazardous chemical substances in prodas halogen as halogen-free middle loss and halogen-free ultra-low Compliance Program Manager ucts. In 2017 and 2018, BG completed the 3rd registration of Euroloss applicable to high-capacity, high-speed and high-function netpean REACH3) by operating a committee with relevant departments Compliance Program Department Compliance Program Supervisor work equipment for the IoT and 5G. In 2019, BG will start developing and partners. BPA-free (Bisphenol A-free) products that comply with environmental regulations and are applicable to fingerprint recognition modules, 3) Total allowable entry of substances of very high concern into Europe used to ElectroIndustrial Vehicle Retail Mottrol Fuel Cell Bio DDI be 100 tons per year, but this volume was reduced to 1 ton per year as of contributing to the development of biometric pro ducts harmless to Materials June 1, 2018. human body, since a major application of this products is in finger72 73 Doosan Group Introduction Design the Future Spark the Growth Customer Satisfaction·Quality Management Business & Impacts CSR Management · CSR Strategy and Key Activities · Transparency of Governance·Stakeholder Engagement Customer Communications · Interview with Experts · Risk Management In 2017, Mottrol BG has established plans and objectives BG plans to focus on developing technologies that can Customer Communication Channels the last fiveContents Imporyears, there was no leak of Doosan Processing customers’ Approval personal Com· Anti-corruption·Ethical Management·Fair Trade tance speed parison for the development of products that meet the requireextend the service life of core parts such as stacks and Doosan strives to strengthen management of customer satisfaction information. > Research and Development A (High) A company-level problem that may Urgent Manager Handle > Customer Satisfaction·Quality Management ments of international environmental regulations including reformer inverters. In 2018, overall power generation efby expanding communication channels with customers and reflecthave an immediate effect on the client’s Reflection of Customers’ Opinions (immein Product Development on the · Talent Management REACH and RoHS. It is continually developing eco-friendficiency of the 10KW/5KW fuel cells exceeded 90% and ing customers’ opinions. As part of a drive to reduce the number of production line if resolution is delayed diate) same day · Environment and Safety Management By reflecting the opinions collected from customers in the product customer complaints, Electro-Materials BG promoted various Q-Day B (RelatiA matter that may have an effect on the Respond Management 2-3 days · Supply Chain Management ly materials in 2019. In particular, the use of parts that the performance and service life of filters were more than vely high) client’s production line 2-3 days after quickly representative · Social Contribution activities on a weekly basis at the initiative of the quality department. contain hexavalent chromium was entirely prohibited doubled. Additionally, product size was reduced to miniC (Average) If it has no effect on the client’s production Average Department 1 week Appendix On Q-Day, BG carries out activities to discuss improvement plans line but may have a potential effect (ver. manager (team starting 2017. In response to the EU standards that will mize the installation area. 01) manager) while sharing issues related to customers and internal quality. The D (Low) Respond after observing the progress is fine Pending Department prohibit the use of parts with lead content exceeding 4) Liquified Natural Gas number of VOC cases decreased by 34% in 2018 compared to the manager (Team manager) 0.1wt% from 2024, BG has selected the development of 5) Liquified Petroleum Gas previous year and exceeded the desired value of 30%. ‘eco-friendly lead-free copper alloy materials’ as the new Mottrol BG was able to shorten the response time to settle customTAT management item Closure criteria Targets technology development task. Bio BU develops and manufactures all products using er claims by improving its system for monitoring the entire process TAT1 Reception – first reply Wired/wireless reply 24 hours Fuel Cell BG develops and manufactures eco-friendly natural ingredients (soybeans, eggs, etc.) and eco-friendfrom the receipt of a claim to the final resolution. In addition, it is TAT2 Reception – arrangement Arranging the direction of processing VOC 7 days products that produce electricity, water, and heat through ly technologies, constantly expanding the eco-friendly steadily improving the customers’ perception of its product quality details in consultation with the customer electrochemical reaction of hydrogen extracted by various product portfolio in the fields of pharmaceutical, food by strengthening its network with customer companies at home and TAT3 Reception – completion of Completion of processing the customer 14 days customer service request means with oxygen. In comparison to conventional power and cosmetic materials. In addition, it makes consisabroad and by actively reflecting customers’ voice. TAT4 Reception – completion of Completion of implementing improvement 30 days Fuel Cell BG ensures that after-sales service requests are promptly generation sources such as coal, the new products emit tent investments in high value-added and eco-friendly improvement measures processed upon reception through the VOC process. It has also small amounts of air pollutants like CO2, NOx and SOx. biomaterials by securing new technologies including AIestablished a system whereby the improvement points identified development process, it has been possible for us to improve both The products include a LNG4) Model that uses hydrogen based enzymes and eco-friendly fermentation to grow through the VOC by operating weekly quality and service meetings customer satisfaction and product value. Industrial Vehicle BG holds extracted from natural gas, H2 Model that uses pure hyinto a global health and beauty company. Products are are reflected in both product improvements and the development of the monthly “Quality Conference” at which the departments in charge drogen gas, and LPG Model that uses hydrogen extractmanufactured in GMP-certified facilities, and the entire new products. In addition, RCA analysis techniques and cross-funcof sales, quality assurance, and R&D get together to discuss how to ed from LPG5). The fuel cell business for power generation process from raw materials to final products is subjected tional activities are operated for advancement of the operation sysprovide the best products to satisfy customer requirements. In addiwill expand its eco-friendly product portfolio in line with to strict control. It guarantees the provision of a safe and tem. tion, it reflects customers’ opinions in its products by operating the the hydrogen economy road map of the government by healthy working environment by obtaining PSM6) and ISO Retail BG promotes activities for redressal of customer inconvenience quarterly “Product Advisory Group,” which is composed of the Sales developing a triple-generation system that can produce 14001 certifications. Also, Bio BU continues its efforts to and complaints by using customers’ feedback secured from various and Dealer Council at the headquarters, as well as the “Service Manelectricity, heat, and hydrogen in 2019. In addition, enhance eco-friendliness of products by verifying genetic online/offline channels of the customer contact points. It was found ager Meeting” and the “Meeting of Senior Sales Personnel.” In addiThe BG recruited more R&D staff and installed evaluation modification of main ingredients and minimizing the use that 46% of the VOCs received in 2018 was related to customer sertion, it puts continuous efforts in providing the best quality products vice at shops. With regard to this, Retail BG continuously conducted through improved mass production. To this end, industrial Vehicle equipment to strengthen the R&D competencies on fuel of solvents. With such efforts, our company has obtained standardized CS education for sales employees to provide constant BG operates user tests, and has established a prosumer system and cell systems for houses and buildings. New fuel cells 4 ECOCERT and 4 REACH certifications as of 2018 and service. In addition, Retail BG provides high-quality customer service diversified channels for listening to VOCs. In 2019, it will develop and (10KW/5KW) with increased performance and cost comwill continue to expand the scope. such as delivering cases through retail POS system. All customer implement a QRN (Quick Response Network) platform to accurately petitiveness were also developed based on the existing 6) Process Safety Management requests received at Retail BG should be handled within 24 hours. and quickly provide services desired by customers using local mainfuel cell (10KW). In order to secure reliability of products, To improve the quality of customer experience, Retail BG conducts tenance companies with outstanding service capability in addition to internal and external monitoring and carries out activities to improve the existing dealer system. Mottrol BG supplies optimized products customer responsiveness through CS campaigns. through close communication with the customers from the initial reBio BU operates a system for monitoring and inspecting all processview of specifications to the mass-production stage. To that end, BG es from reception of an issue to completion of processing. It is strucdevelops products that reflect customers’ opinions through technolotured such that individual VOCs are classified by their importance gy exchange meetings, promotion, and development processes. and response to the customer is carried out based on the target time of each TAT1) stage. It shares the step-by-step progress of the Similarly, Bio BU develops customized products to meet the target received VOC to company employees on a regular basis to raise customers’ needs (quality and price requirements) through close awareness of the issue at company level and improve the immediate communication with customers from the initial review of specifications cause. Also in a bid to better manage and support the supply chain, to mass production. In addition, it provides key foreign customers in 2018, the BG visited overseas agencies and conducted trainings, with education on technology exchange and products. It completed and carried out tours to production sites and trainings on the dothe final registration of total four items to the REACH system in 2018, mestic market and products for overseas sales agents, so they could successfully securing material stability and improving customer satisoffer best service to final customers. faction. DDI BU introduced a design thinking methodology to quickly identify and respond to customers’ demands. In addition, it carried 1) Turnaround Time: The time required from VOC reception to handling out education and practices for 100 employees through the training program, and cultivated their ability to perform tasks for clients using Protection of Customers’ Personal Information design thinking. It supports subsidiaries of Doosan Group through the Doosan sets protection of customers’ personal information as a key design thinking methodology for training specialists and identifying the management objective. In particular, Doosan implements its own inexact needs of customers, and thereby strives to secure customer ternal personal information management plans to prevent customers satisfaction by reflecting design thinking to development and improvefrom suffering damages due to leaks of their personal information. In ment of new products. 74 75 Doosan Group Introduction Design the Future Spark the Growth Talent Management Business & Impacts CSR Management · CSR Strategy and Key Activities · Transparency of Governance·Stakeholder Engagement Quality Management Employee Communication · Interview with Experts · Risk Management Enhancement of Quality Management Systems Thorough Management of Quality Doosan Leader Workshop for Change and Innovation better performance of the organization. · Anti-corruption·Ethical Management·Fair Trade · Research and Development Doosan Corporation strives to satisfy the quality requireIndustrial Vehicle BG established the Q-Cost manageStarting 2016, Doosan Corporation has been operating a bien1) CA : Change Agent > Customer Satisfaction·Quality Management ments of its global customers by acquiring the relevant ment system and manages it effectively by setting 64 nial workshop for leaders to discuss ideas about the desirable > Talent Management · Environment and Safety Management quality certificates. Electro-Materials BG operates its internal and external failed cost items. Q-Cost is a loss roles of leaders. ‘Doosan Leader Workshop for Change and Education for Overseas Corporations · Supply Chain Management quality management system based on IATF-169491) cercost occurring from a quality issue. This system will be Innovation’ was held over 4 occasions with about 240 leaders Doosan Corporation conducts education for overseas subsid· Social Contribution tification. In 2018, technical skill trainings for engineers operated stably until 2021 through continuous manduring last year, effectively delivering the organizational vision for iaries in order to establish the way of working based on Doosan Appendix and benchmarking were conducted through technical agement. In addition, Industrial Vehicle BG introduced a sustainable growth, and exchanging opinions on methods for Credo. This education strengthens members’ sense of belongexchange meetings with suppliers (9 suppliers, 22 meetunique problem solving technique through operation of meeting members at the eye level. ing by linking strengths of individuals to the organization and ClassiMajor Activities ings). The BG plans to operate internal group studies for SENX (Speed Engineering-X) education and tasks to imensuring participants’ involvement in discussions on the future fication chemical substances, the core of electronic materials in prove the capability for solving endemic problems. It also Conference to acknowledge achievements and share image of the organization. Doosan Corporation will continue its Electro• Deployment of a data-based Materials management system 2019. built a mobile app for customers to report quality issues. exemplary cases efforts to create its future in cooperation with members by over• Application of real-time monitoring of key indicators an early alarm system As for Industrial Vehicle BG, it introduced a customer-oriIn 2018, an environment to register mobile-based claims Doosan Corporation organizes an annual conference to accoming regional boundaries. • Enhancement of quality through ented quality assessment system based on the ISO9001 in real-time was established by developing QR App v1.1, knowledge achievements and share exemplary cases and analysis of big data and has been steadily improving programs to enhance and the function for operating a GPS-based QRN (Quick lessons learned during the year. This conference was started in Labor-management Culture Based on Mutual Trust Industrial • Task force team activities Vehicles for enhancing the quality suppliers’ competitiveness in securing parts of reliable Response Network) was introduced for pilot operation 2016 and has turned into an annual event. Awards for FundaDoosan Corporation strives to maintain harmony and commucompetitiveness of suppliers • ENX activities quality. in the Pyeongtaek region. In 2019, the range of support mental Competitiveness (R&D/Business Growth), Advancement nication between labor and management by holding an annual (SENX1), 3rd-generation DFSS2)) Mottrol BG operates a quality management system based will be expanded globally through increasing user conveand Science (OE Advancement/Innovation at Manufacturing labor-management workshop and operating a foot volleyball • Enhancement of product competitiveness on ISO9001, and has upgraded its quality management nience, improving functions, and seeking stabilization by Sites), Credo Value, and Doosan Talent Fostering (Executive/ event managed by the labor union. In addition, it is creating a (DCA3), benchmarking) by deploying SPC2) in conjunction with its suppliers. It also accepting various VOCs. Team Leader/Team Member/CA1)) were presented. A winning win-win labor-management culture based on mutual underMottrol • Acquired digital inspection certificate issued by suppliers responds preemptively to changes in quality management In 2018, Bio BU successfully performed due diligence concert was organized to share members’ stories. The conferstanding and trust through monthly business presentations to • Quality management level under upgrade; the SPC system linked systems. For instance, the BG acquired a certification for on the manufacturing facilities of global clients includence is an opportunity to motivate members and work toward help employees understand business operations. with suppliers4)is being deployed currently the AS9100 Rev. D3) specifications, which were strengthing Johnson&Johnson, Estée Lauder and Amway, and Fuel Cell For industrial use ened based on situation analysis and risk-based thinking obtained accreditation for product quality. In addition, Fostering Talent • Production data collected based at the organizational level. the process of obtaining EFfCI-GMP1) is under way to on statistical quality management Leadership Education • Quality audits performed on key Fuel Cell BG conducts quality management based on enable BU to respond preemptively to the global quality part vendors Leadership Enhancement Program for New BG Team Fifth Term of Junior MBA of Doosan Corporation ISO9001, KGS Design Group Inspection, KS, and other standards; it is expected to be completed in 2019. By es• Promotion of field VOC analysis Leaders The 5th term of Junior MBA Course of Doosan Corporation was and improvement tasks quality management system certifications. It also reviews tablishing RTDB2) and HMI3), parameters will be collected For housing/commercial Doosan Corporation is a unique organization whose holding organized to enhance long-term perspective and competency • Improvement of the ppm level of the field quality issue VOCs as a core task, and promotes during the process and the correlation of quality data will components of defective quality company manages a variety of businesses. The recent growth of employees and assistant managers who will become leaders • Reinforcement of initial quality improvement activities. be analyzed to identify the cause of defects and further through expansion of the process of Doosan Group was led by new business organizations such in the future. This course is comprised of blended lectures of Bio BU renewed the BGMP4) certification through regular stabilize the process quality. The scope of work will be inspection gate as fuel cell and duty-free businesses, in addition to the core online and offline on strategy, financing, accounting, marketing, • Gate management and audit by the Ministry of Food and Drug Safety and is presdiscussed and tests and data collection carried out in securement of traceability for businesses such as Electro-Materials BG, Industrial Vehicle BG, and personnel organization. Participants can gain a broadimprovement of field quality ently in the process of obtaining the EFfCI5) certification 2019, with a plan to apply it in the cosmetics raw material and Mottrol BG. Accordingly, Doosan Corporation operated a er view of businesses and cultivate professional knowledge Bio • Setting IPC5) standards for major based on ISO9001 and ISO14001:2015. line first and then expand to other processes. products leadership enhancement program to help team leaders stabilize through team-based and individual tasks related to business • Field quality improvement DDI BU established and operates its quality management DDI BU adopted an Agile methodology for projects by through group activities operations of Fuel Cell BG and Retail BG. This program, comstrategies of Doosan Corporation. In addition, a special lecture system based on ISO9001 and ISO20000 (International accepting and applying customer feedbacks for continu• Reinforcement of investigation prised of 5 sessions of education and workshops, was orgahas been added to introduce employees to the 4th Industrial system for investigation of Standards for IT service). In addition, it plans to introduce ous improvement. BU trained 28 scrum masters through deviation and OOS6) nized over 7 months from April to October 2018, aiming to help Revolution, online marketing strategies of leading companies, and apply a RPA (Robot Process Automation) system in education and practices for employees of Doosan Group. DDI • Management of service requests team leaders become aware of critical moment and practice and technology trends of the time. The last part of the course is based on standard process steps to carry out activities for requesting and handling of The trained scrum masters manage projects based on • Reinforcement of project audits solutions. a business management simulation that offers a chance to exsystem use authority or detecting performance reduction the Agile methodology, and contribute to enhancing projperience corporate management. Members who completed the 1) Speed Engineering-X and defects of servers all year round. ect quality and customer satisfaction. Junior MBA Course gained a broader view of businesses, and 2) Design for Six Sigma MBA Internal Short-term MBA of Electro-Materials BG 3) Doosan Customer Audit: Selecting 1-2 1) Certification of the latest TS16949, Quality Management 1) European Federation for Cosmetic Ingredients were able to improve quality of their work by utilizing managevehicles daily from the customer’s perspective : A certification system combining the quality management system and Electro-Materials BG operates an internal short-term MBA System for automotive Industry under ISO9001 ment knowledge. They had an increased sense of belonging as to evaluate the quality of the finished vehicle GMP standards for manufacturers of cosmetic ingredients. course for all non-financial team leaders and part leaders to based on 170 items such as appearance, etc. 2) Statistical Process Control members of Doosan Corporation, and formed a network by in4) It is being carried out on 39 suppliers in total 2) Real Time Data Base: A program for real time collection and saving enable them to gain a deep understanding of the company’s 3) Certification of the latest AS9100, Quality Management System for of data teracting with other juniors of different BG/BUs. In the 5th term 3 steps based on the organic sector; 6 sup Aerospace Industry under ISO9001 strategies and enhance financial capability. In 2018, 45 leaders pliers completed step 1 in 2018, 15 suppliers 3) Human Machine Interface: A touch screen to control machine at of 2018, 24 juniors of 8 BG/BU/invested companies under Doosan completed step 2 in 2019 and 18 suppliers 4) Bulk Good Manufacturing Practice: Standards to be followed in all participated in 3 sessions of this course, which allowed them are expected to expand to step 3 in 2020 automobile sites Corporation participated in the course. Doosan Corporation working processes for manufacturing and quality management of good to learn about the strategies and financial significance of Elec5) In-process Control: All tests, inspections and medical excipients will continue the Junior MBA Course in 2019 to equip its young measurements carried out during the process tro-Materials BG’s business operations. Leaders who particito product high quality products 5) The European Federation for Cosmetic Ingredients employees with an in-depth learning and practical education pated in the MBA course evaluated that the course provided a 6) Out of Specification: If the test result exceeds experience in business administration. the predefined test standard practical and effective learning experience in better understanding theories, products, and businesses under guidance from experts of financing and strategy. 76 77 Doosan Group Introduction Design the Future Spark the Growth Business & Impacts CSR Management · CSR Strategy and Key Activities · Transparency of Governance·Stakeholder Engagement · Interview with Experts · Risk Management Professional Work Skill Level-Up Course completed this education program. Since leadership is “Role playing based on actual cases was very effective in underEducation and Conferences on Digital Trends · Anti-corruption·Ethical Management·Fair Trade · Research and Development Doosan Corporation conducted the ‘Professional Work developed through continued practice, periodic follow-up standing the basic concepts.” In 2019, two terms of this course DDI BU held a conference for all employees to provide insights · Customer Satisfaction·Quality Management Skill Level-Up Course’ to help employees of Retail BG, a checkups are done based on the action plan and expecwill be operated, one in the first half and the other in the second into digital trends and help digital transformation of businesses > Talent Management · Environment and Safety Management unit that recently joined the organization, recognize their tations of leaders established prior to the program. The half of the year, by adding various contents and cases. for increased value and competitiveness. In addition, design · Supply Chain Management roles and improve their way of working. This one-day technical site managers who attended this course reportthinking education was conducted for executives and employees · Social Contribution course was carried out for 15 employees in October 2018. ed that they found meaning in their work life by gaining to promote a creative and innovative way of working. Appendix Through this course, trainees were able to understand the self-awareness and creating a cooperative team with their systematic work processes and methods based on Planteam members. Based on the result, Doosan Corporation Do-See, acquire effective communication and professional will continue to improve and operate the training courses. Human Rights Management skills to be used at the worksite, and practice such skills at Human Rights Policy Human Rights Impact Assessment work. The participants gained work know-how and shared Courses for Promoted Personnel of Chinese Doosan Corporation respects human rights of not only employDoosan conducts assessment on all BG/BUs to investigate various concerns of Retail BG’s employees. They evaluatCorporations ees but all stakeholders engaged with its management activinegative impacts and major vulnerable areas related to human ed the course positively as a practical learning course. Doosan Corporation operated a course for newly proties, and advices third parties including suppliers to practice hurights issues. Human rights impact assessment is conducted moted general managers and assistant managers at man rights management at the same level. Human rights policy in priority order by analyzing human rights risks, the gravity of Female Junior Leadership Education Electro-Materials BG Changshu Corporation and Mottrol of Doosan stipulates basic human rights guaranteed regardless human rights risk issues and business activities by countries in Women’s Council of Doosan Corporation, which has been Jiangyin Corporation in June and July 2018. The course of origin, gender, ethnicity, or other conditions. As a member of which Doosan’s businesses are present. Approximately 80% of active since 2015, conducted leadership education to for new general managers was held in Electro-Materials UN Global Compact, we abide by the 10 principles of Global branches based on the total number of employees have been support sustainable growth of 31 female employees and BG Changshu Corporation with 9 personnel attending, Compact in areas of human rights, labor, environment and anassessed in the last 3 years and we aim to complete 100% by assistant managers in 2018. This program was planned and the course for new assistant managers was held in ti-corruption, and operate human rights management practices 2021. out to enhance competencies and strengthen the sense Seoul for 7 trainees. The participants learned about their and due diligence based on the principles of human rights that of belonging of female employees in the manufacturing new roles based on the 3 modules of Lead Self, Lead are internationally recognized such as Universal Declaration of Employees 80% 100% business, given that the ratio of female employees is low People, and Lead Work. They also gained various work Human Rights and UN Guiding Principles on Business and HuPerformance of and there are fewer opportunities for female juniors to skills by understanding the integrated values and visions human rights impact man Rights: Ruggie Framework. assessment 2016 2017 2018 2021 foster leadership due to the reduced scale of open reof Doosan Corporation. This course has significance as Identification of cruitment of university graduates since 2012. The primary the very first course operated for promoted personnel of emerging risks 21% Human Rights Management Practice and Due modules of this program include strength management, Chinese corporations. The participants from different BG/ Diligence System self-development, communication and empathy. Through BU came together to understand Doosan as a whole and Improvement of emerging risks 95% Doosan operates a human rights management system to prethe Clifton Strength Finder, the participants were able to gained pride as members of Doosan. vent human rights violations that may occur in the business prounderstand individual and team strengths and spend time Suppliers cesses including the supply chain as follows. Through human 80% 100% to think about how to maximize strategies and outcomes. Job Education rights impact assessment, we actively identify potential human Performance of They also discussed methods of setting and attaining Purchase Academy Advanced Course of Doosan human rights impact rights violation issues in areas of grievance mechanism, discrimassessment personal goals utilizing their strengths. The program also Corporation 2016 2017 2018 2023 ination, forced labor, wage, working hours, child labor, freedom provided time to understand the purpose of communicaDoosan developed a common job education course for Identification of 3% of association, consumer human rights, information security, emerging risks tion, improve communication skills and emotion control, purchase personnel in 2018. The Purchase Academy and promote diversity. The female juniors who participated Advanced Course of Doosan Corporation was started out privacy, and continue to apply improvement activities. Improvement of emerging risks 30% in the course had often received feedback on weaknesses to increase our personnel’s capability of responding to the before participating in the program. They were able to gain rapidly changing purchase environment. This is the first stronger will and confidence by understanding and focourse for which the entire process including 8 months of Human Rights Management Practice and Due Diligent System cusing on their strengths through this program. Women’s development and lectures was handled by purchase per02. Risk & Impact Assessment Council of Doosan Corporation will prepare various opporsonnel of Doosan Corporation. In addition, a case study 01. Commitment Preparation of Company-wide Human tunities for both female and male employees in 2019. on a different BG was applied to further increase the apHuman Rights Policy Rights Assessment System 2. Establishment of assessment scope plicability of education with practical contents and know02 1. Establishment of assessment areas Human rights management/employment/ BG/BUs, subsidiaries, overseas branches, etc. Leadership Education for Technical Personnel how of internal lecturers. 04. Performance Assessment prohibition of forced labor/prohibition of Employees, suppliers, JV, etc. child labor/assurance of industrial safety/ 3. Establishment of assessment period & plan Doosan Corporation operates a leadership course for Based on opinions of purchase personnel, the 1st term of & Disclosure supply chain management/protection of Short-term/long-term performance of all Review and report of human rights human rights of local residents/ensuring of BG/BUs technical personnel and leaders to help influential leadthe Purchase Academy Advanced Course was comprised management assessment 01 environmental rights/protection of Performance plan for the concerned year Outcomes and results of impact consumer human rights, etc. 4. Summarization of assessment results ers become aware of their proper roles and understand of 4 subjects including negotiation strategy, cost analysis, assessment Mapping of business risks, regional risks Investigating the vulnerable areas identified coaching methods. Leadership education for technical supplier management, and risk management. This 4-day Records of employee risk prevention actions 04 03 03. Preventive & Mitigating Actions Investigation of main vulnerable areas personnel was divided into 3 courses including the new course was operated for 16 hands-on purchase employRecords of supplier risk prevention actions Plan for risk prevention measures site manager course and site manager courses I and II. In ees with at least 2 years of experience. The participants of Disclosure of Human Rights Management based on assessment result Results of grievance reporting 1. Institutional solution of susceptible area 2018, 77 site managers of Electro-Materials BG, Industhe 1st term presented positive opinions such as “Ample Results of corrective actions Systematic and regulatory supplementation 2. Education and communication trial Vehicle BG, Mottrol BG, Fuel Cell BG, and Bio BU case studies of Doosan Corporation were helpful” and Number of legal actions and financial impacts Educational planning and performance Results of external sustainability evaluation 78 79 Doosan Group Introduction Environment and Safety Management Design the Future Spark the Growth Business & Impacts CSR Management · CSR Strategy and Key Activities Environmental Management · Transparency of Governance·Stakeholder Engagement Response to and Monitoring of New Environmental ment and MBR method1), reducing the concentration of COD and · Interview with Experts Regulations SS, measures of waste water pollutants, by 70% (65ppm → 19ppm) · Risk Management Doosan analyzes human rights risks and their gravity by Preventive and Mitigating Actions · Anti-corruption·Ethical Management·Fair Trade Global public awareness of and an interest in environmental issues and 90% (70ppm → 5.6ppm), respectively, compared to those of country and issue for all branches around the world as For key emerging risks found through human rights im· Research and Development such as environmental pollution, water shortages, natural disasters previous levels. · Customer Satisfaction·Quality Management below. Emerging risks related to Asian countries (Republic pact assessment, we take improvement activities accord> Talent Management and climate change have increased significantly over the years. ing to a timeframe that is set based on the risk matrix. In 1) MBR method: Membrane Bio-Reactor > Environment and Safety Management of Korea, China, etc.) in terms of regions, operation and Along with this interest, efforts such as policies and regulations to · Supply Chain Management supply chain of our company, in terms of the value chain, addition, we carry out preventive and mitigating actions solve problems are continuing at the national level. In particular, the · Social Contribution and working environments (working hours, wage, discrimthrough various programs including institutional solution, importance of environmental management of companies is heavily Environmental Investment Management Appendix emphasized upon. In this regard, Doosan has deployed an environDoosan Corporation operates a system for the management of ination, grievance procedure, etc.), and in terms of issues education, campaigns, etc. on the vulnerability areas, which are identified from the overall assessment result mental management system designed to minimize the impact of environmental expenditure to internalize its environmental manageare classified as high. We put in our best efforts to identify company business on the environment. It preemptively responds to ment system. Its environmental investments are mainly focused on and resolve these emerging risks. analysis. government regulations and trends by steadily monitoring business installing or replacing pollution prevention or environmental protecIn 2018, we implemented improvement of the system activities and surveying their impact on local communities. Furthertion facilities and on constructing wastewater treatment stations and Emerging Human Rights Risk Analysis Map for better work & life balance such as management of more, the company has conducted in-depth expert research to waste storage warehouses. In 2018, Electro-Materials BG invested working hours, expansion of the flexible working system, secure essential EHS capabilities and enhanced its execution ability KRW 360 million in wastewater treatment plant maintenance, with increased employment of the disabled, management of through its participation in EHS participatory activities. the replacement of filter/ filter media (at Jeungpyeong plant), also Possibility of occurrence working hours and enhanced monitoring of human rights the replacement of wastewater treatment plant panels, along with Stewardship of Hazardous Chemical Substances improvement of ventilation of mixing equipment (at Gimcheon plant), management of suppliers. Doosan Corporation strives to create a safe and clean workplace washing booth and adsorption tower. Mottrol BG invested KRW Responsible Supply Chain In addition, we newly introduced education for improving through a tighter management of hazardous chemicals. Electro-MaManagement Working Hours 890 million in the improvement of environmental pollution prevention perception on the disabled to strengthen awareness on terials BG has obtained a business license for harmful chemical subLiving Wages facilities of its painting facilities to comply with the THC emission alhuman rights management. We select human rights topstances in order to comply with the laws and regulations of chemical lowance standards for responding to the strengthened environmenData Protection and Privacy substances, and conducts statistical and emissions surveys on a Republic of Korea ics every month and encourage our employees to actively tal regulations. pursue positive behaviors in order to establish a culture regular basis, in accordance with the legal requirements. Employees China Singapore of all worksites periodically attend education courses on the safe Waste Management for mutual respect. handling of chemical substances, and the importance of systematiTo reduce the volume of discharged waste, Doosan separates its Discrimination Forced Labor cally wearing personal protective gear. In addition, the company has wastes according to its nature and state, and then legally treats Grievance Mechanism continuously invested in facilities to comply with all chemical subthem under its “Allbaro System1).” For the legal treatment of wastes Luxembourg Child Labor stances management laws in its business sites. In 2018, leak and generated by various processes, Doosan periodically educates and USA United Kingdom gas detectors were installed at all major hazardous chemical hanevaluates the vendors responsible for treating these wastes. It also dling facilities and processes. In 2019, factory wall improvements maintains consistent efforts to reduce the volume of wastes disGermany Health & Safety are scheduled to meet the legal requirements through continuous charged by its processes. Electro-Materials BG reduced waste by Belgium Protection of Consumer improvement. Safe management of chemical substances entering about 13% (10,868 tons in 2017, 9,428 tons in 2018), and waste Human rights management campaign Freedom of Association the company complies with all the legal procedures, by checking treatment costs by about KRW 357 million, compared to those of the material information of imported chemicals. In 2018, the compa2017 Grievance Process ny strengthened its management level by management surveys to Business impacts 1) Allbaro System: As the IT-based waste management system of the Korean Doosan introduced a grievance mechanism as an early identify issues and establish improvement measures. government, it controls the entire set of processes for waste management, warning system to obtain information related to human right from discharge to transportation, to the final treatment. Control of Air Pollutants Potential Human Rights Issue rights. We operate the Ombudsperson program and variDoosan keeps the atmospheric pollutant emissions generated at Production Plant ous grievance channels to provide the necessary help by Response to Climate Change its worksites below 50% of the standard allowed under the releoffering counseling on complaints raised by employees. Doosan regularly discloses information related to the greenhouse Subsidiary vant statutes. In particular, Electro-Materials BG regularly conducts gas emissions of its facilities and controls them according to the Each program provides an opportunity for members to self-measurement of major pollutants twice a month and plans to IPCC1) Guidelines and the government’s own guidelines. Doosan’s work with appeals based on three principles of grievance further measure the pollutant emission concentration and improve statements of its greenhouse gas emissions and energy consumpredressal: anonymity protection, prevention of disadvanfacilities as the air pollutant emission standards get strengthened, tion and its plans for monitoring them are verified by a third party tage and feedback. In 2018, DDI BU assigned dedicated starting 2020. Mottrol BG measures the replacement period of each year. In particular, the company set reduction targets for its activated carbon in the environment pollution prevention facility to ombudsman for the Changwon region and brought supworkplaces and has steadily promoted energy saving and greenreduce THC1) and fine dust, and replaces it when the emission limit pliers under its umbrella to reinforce grievance settlement. house gas reduction activities to achieve the targets given by the reaches 50%. Doosan will continue to improve the grievance redressal government, as the regulatory targets are shifted from the GHG 1) THC (Total Hydrocarbons) emission trading system to the target management system in 2018. process by strengthening the grievance system, expanding Mottrol BG reduced costs and greenhouse gas emissions by the the number of ombudsmen, and educating counselors. Management of Water Use and Effluents replacement of old air conditioners (76tCO2), the installation of Electro-Materials BG manages water resource risks to reduce the cooling/heating remote control system (108.2 tCO2), the installation risks related to depletion of water resources and maintenance of a of cooling tower automatic on/off system (KRW 17.4 million, 99.7 stable water supply. It also maintains the density of water pollutants tCO2), and the addition of cooling fan automatic on/off function (KRW in final effluents below 50% of the current standard. Bio BU Iksan 6.5 million, 37.4 tCO2). Plant has invested KRW 300 million to reduce pollutant concentrations in wastewater, and changed the wastewater treatment method 1) IPCC (International Panel on Climate Change) from the biological treatment to the combination of biological treat80 81 Doosan Group Introduction Supply Chain Management Design the Future Spark the Growth Business & Impacts CSR Management · CSR Strategy and Key Activities · Transparency of Governance·Stakeholder Engagement Health and Safety Management Supply Chain Management · Interview with Experts · Risk Management EHS Leadership Activities Basic Compliance with EHS Rules Supply Chain Status Field diagnosis was conducted on 38 companies in the last 3 · Anti-corruption·Ethical Management·Fair Trade · Research and Development Doosan Corporation has strengthened voluntary EHS manageAll of Doosan Corporation’s worksites carry out activities Doosan operates various businesses involving machine, mayears, and the improvement plans were implemented on 14 · Customer Satisfaction·Quality Management ment among the heads of its organizations, based on the top designed to ensure basic compliance with the EHS rules terials, distribution and so on. Each business division selects companies. · Talent Management > Environment and Safety Management management's deep interest in and support for EHS. All the and prevent the recurrence of safety accidents caused by key supply chains according to the business environment and Doosan aims to achieve complete sustainability evaluation of > Supply Chain Management leaders personally perform diverse EHS leadership activities, innon-compliance with those rules. They select items that must purchase strategy. The key supply chains are managed every the entire supply chain and eliminate sustainability risks of key · Social Contribution cluding field EHS inspections, safety dialog, and EHS meetings. be observed without fail in order to prevent accidents, based year according to the trade volume considering the strategic suppliers by 2025. Appendix Through these measures, there has been an effective increase on risk assessment of the worksite and process at hand. By importance and trade connections of the trade items. in the safety awareness of all its employees, thus contributing linking them to periodic education, publicity, inspection, and Sustainability Management Process to the prevention of safety accidents at its worksites. citation, all employees are naturally encouraged to comply with Supplier classification Number of Purchase the safety rules, with an advanced level of safety awareness. suppliers percentage Step 1. Analysis of supply chain status Tier 1 Total 1,822 100% EHS Session for Field Managers Step 5. Materials 338 22% Step 2. Doosan Corporation has conducted an EHS Session for its Improvement of Scope and field managers who are the EHS leaders in the field. They risk management target plan for Machinery 999 73% policy for the understood the role of field managers to communicate more sustainability supply chain evaluation of the smoothly with EHS-related issues to employees, watched a Others 485 6% Annual Process supply chain movie about leadership, and discussed on how to encourage voluntary action to settle the EHS culture. Opportunities for Key suppliers 181 48% benchmarking were provided to share best practices from other EHS leadership activity (Video message of management related to Tier 2 Key suppliers 52 business sites. Step 4. Step 3. EHS) Review of risk management Sustainability evaluation results of the supply chain of the supply chain Creating Safe Worksites Together Geographical Classification Purchase Percentage Doosan Corporation has deployed a mutual cooperation sysKorea 65% tem with our suppliers in order to establish safe and healthy worksites. In 2018, Electro-Materials BG's Iksan and Gimcheon Japan 16% Sustainability Evaluation Status plants, Industrial Vehicle BG, and Mottrol BG participated in the China 7% “Win-Win Safety and Health Cooperation Program” systematiClassifiEvaluation of Site visits Improvement EHS session for field managers Asia, Pacific 9% cation Sustainability risks activities cally operated for a total of 23 suppliers, which included safety and health-related education and support for hazard assessResponse to ISO45001 Certification Others 3% 2016 447 7 ment. In March 2018, the occupational health and safety manage2017 1,351 11 3 ment systems (ISO45001:2018) was officially established. Unlike the procedure-based OHSAS18001, ISO45001 is based Management of a Sustainable Supply Chain 2018 227 20 11 on a process, allowing for systematic operation manageDoosan has enacted and applied the Guideline for Sustainable ment. Doosan Corporation is preparing to change its existing Supply Chains for suppliers since 2015 in order to secure a OHSAS18001 to ISO45001. Thus far, Industrial Vehicle BG has sustainable supply chain. This Guideline includes contents relatSupply Chain Evaluation Items already completed the certification transition. ed to labor and human rights, safety and health, environment, ethics and fair trade, general management, posting of guideClassification Item Percentage Health and safety training for employees lines and compliance, etc. and the full text can be found in the of supplier Protection of Customer Service Workers Doosan e-procurement website. Enhancing Employee Health Doosan Corporation established a customer service worker Performance Quality, delivery, unit price, 50% All companies that wish to have business with Doosan must evaluation finance, etc. Doosan Corporation conducts periodic health examinations manual to raise awareness of protection for customer service perform self-diagnosis including an evaluation of sustainability. to enhance the health of its employees, as well as those of its workers and to create a desirable distribution culture in which Due diligence General management 30% A company that meets the criteria set by our company may evaluation (quality management, purchase, suppliers. It strives to protect their health by providing steady customers and employees respect each other. The company open trade with us, and the possibility of renewal is determined technology, etc.) health counseling and effective tracking and management of has declared thee Customer Service Worker Protection policy, through regular sustainability self-checks in the areas of ethics/ those suspected to be suffering from illnesses. It has developerated both resting facilities and counseling room to reduce Sustainability 20% general management, labor/human rights, health/safety and en(labor/human rights, EHS, etc.) oped and operates diverse health enhancement programs for their stress, and provided preventive activities such as posting vironment. its employees, including a quit-smoking fund, an anti-obesity employee protection instructions, promoting activities, and esThe candidate group of key suppliers is shortlisted according to program, and a healthy diet management program. In addition, tablishing complaints offices for difficulties in treatment. In adpurchase strategies, and key suppliers are selected based on it actively operates preventive programs for health promotion. dition, preventive measures are provided to deal with customer the result of regular evaluation that includes the sustainability It closely works with areas related to mental health, including abuse or assault for a customer service worker. item each year. For the risks found in the evaluation process, stress assessment and counseling. separate field diagnosis and improvement plan are carried out. 82 83 Doosan Group Introduction Social Contribution Design the Future Spark the Growth Business & Impacts CSR Management · CSR Strategy and Key Activities · Transparency of Governance·Stakeholder Engagement · Interview with Experts · Risk Management Sustainable Purchase Strategy total ESG-based purchase by 80% by 2023 through active ‘Time Traveler’ Program for Nurturing Youth ‘Woori Doori’ Sports Program for Youths with Disability · Anti-corruption·Ethical Management·Fair Trade · Research and Development For management of sustainable supply chains, Doosan ESG propagation activities and policy reflection. Launched in 2012, the Time Traveler program is Doosan Corporation’s ‘Woori Doori’ started in 2016 is a sports program for helping · Customer Satisfaction·Quality Management identifies worksites with high possibility of causing enviDoosan Corporation continues to expand ESG training for representative program supporting education on photography youths with development disabilities to build physical strength and · Talent Management · Environment and Safety Management ronmental accidents/pollutions or violate environmental purchase personnel in order to strengthen its sustainable and humanities education, with a view to nurturing youths and improve social skills through T-Ball, which is a new sport similar to > Supply Chain Management regulations; worksites with high possibility of employees supply chain. As a result, ESG training rate for purchase inculcating upright values. baseball. > Social Contribution and stakeholders causing/suffering legal/physical damage personnel was 89% in 2018, and will achieve 100% in In 2018, we diversified curricula by expanding the fields of human For youths with disabilities in Seoul, Incheon, Iksan, and ChangAppendix through issues/accidents related to human rights/safety/eth2021. studies including photography, video making, literature, and the won areas where Doosan subsidiaries are located, a group of ics; and worksites that cannot carry out normal operations environment. Along with 120 youths from low-income families, we volunteers composed of Doosan employees and college students Classification 2016 2017 2018 Total due to sanctions or punishments, as high-risk worksites. newly supported 68 youths with disability. Participating students participated in the program and offered T-Ball coaching. In 2018, SSAP Execution 121 123 127 147 Based on the defined risks, Doosan establishes a pursuppliers suppliers suppliers suppliers hosted an exhibition with the photographs they took along with 123 youths with disabilities availed the coaching; further, they chase strategy that reflects ESG elements in addition to essays. We were able to see positive emotional changes through gathered together at the end of the year for a sports day to comPurchase based on ESG 63% 62% 59% 59% quality, delivery and price in order to enhance sustainESG training rate for effectiveness measurement conducted by an expert. pete on T-Ball and experience a variety of new sports. ability of supply chains. This purchase strategy selected 59% 74% 89% purchase personnel As the result of effectiveness measurement conducted by expert fair trade and stability of the working environment as professors, we were able to see positive changes in sports ability key items in addition to traditional elements to maintain Management of Conflict Minerals and social skills of youths with disabilities, and employees who sustainable supply chains. Doosan intends to increase Doosan Corporation had devised and implemented variparticipated as volunteers also showed a high level of satisfaction transparency by spreading a climate conductive to fair ous supply chain policies in connection with products and and intention to participate again. trade within the supply chains. This will lead to trust of the parts containing relevant minerals or the actual minerals entire supply chain in compliance, and enhance the integin order to participate in the international community’s efrity of the supply chains. forts concerning conflict minerals. Since 2004, Doosan has operated the Compliance ProBased on our conflict mineral management policies, we gram and conducted the Code of Conduct Compliance preferentially identify products that may include 3TG (TanSurvey (226 suppliers responded in 2018) for key staketalum, Tungsten, Tin and Gold). We request our suppliers holders of supply chains. In addition, we operate a hotline to verify the place of origin based on BOM1), and we were (080-850-3398) for open communication with suppliers. able to confirm that no conflict mineral is used in the verEmployee Funding Programs: ‘Youth Start’ and ‘Mother’s Creating a safe working environment is one of our most ified product group (application components of industrial Future’ important strategic goals. This can increase the safety vehicles, casting materials, etc.). We operate a scholarship program and single mother self-suffiof supply chains and ultimately enhance sustainability of Doosan will continue to carry out monitoring on the posciency support program, which are selected through the Employthe entire supply chain by eliminating quality costs, supsible presence of 3TG in BOM from the R&D step and ee Funding Committee. These funding programs are operated ply-demand setbacks, etc. caused by accidents. reinforce the process of verifying the place of origin. with the contributions collected from employees and the compaDoosan has been operating the Coexisting Cooperation ‘Dadok-Georim’, a Reading Support Program 1) Bill of Material ny’s matching grants. Program (23 companies in 2018) for safety management ‘Youth Start’, the 2018 scholarship program, provided approxiDDI BU operates ‘Dadok-Georim’, a reading support program for of suppliers’ workplaces in order to increase quality, price Enhancement of Suppliers' Competitiveness mately KRW 100 million of scholarship to 39 students in underchildren at child-care institutions to promote their intellectual and and delivery competitiveness of supply chains. In addithrough Reforms privileged surroundings to enable them continue their studies. In social development. tion, for suppliers found with vulnerabilities as the result Doosan Corporation pursues diverse win-win activities addition, we support continued growth of students through menIn 2018, reading teachers and employees volunteered at Eden of sustainability evaluation, we visit the sites to assess the to enhance the product competitiveness of its suppliers, toring activities jointly with employees. I Ville located in Seongdong-gu, Seoul and provided fairytale vulnerability and help them to better the working environincluding the provision of education by experts and the ‘Mother’s Future’, which is a program for supporting self-suffinarration and making/drawing activities related to the books to ment through improvement activities. transfer of problem-solving methods. In particular, Indusciency of single mothers, offers employment and job education seven children. They also built a mini library to provide an opportrial Vehicle BG has fostered a culture of win-win cooperexpenses to 53 single mothers who are raising their children untunity for children to get more familiar with books. Children who Supply Chain Management Goal (KPI) ation by improving the suppliers’ factory environment and der social prejudice and economic difficulties. Through sectoral participated in Dadok-Georim showed cognitive development, Doosan Corporation aims to achieve a sustainable supply sharing its inventory control know-how and outcomes, coaching and mentoring supports, 23 beneficiaries succeeded in enhanced creativity, development of language skills, and better chain by Supplier Sustainability Assessment Program and by forming internal task force teams in cooperation anger control, and reduced need for emotional therapy. (SSAP), purchase agreement based on ESG, and imobtaining qualification and finding a job. with the Korea Productivity Center. As a result of these provement in employee’s awareness of the supply chain. efforts, the productivity and process quality of ten suppliers We have established an evaluation system, SSAP, to Sharing Tea with Love has improved significantly in the past three years. conduct in-depth diagnostics for key suppliers. SSAP asSharing Tea with Love is a CSR program that has continued for 28 Doosan provides new business opportunities to domestic sessment has been conducted for 145 suppliers, which is years since 1991, delivering warmth to soldiers serving on the front suppliers by continuously supporting localized develop80% of our suppliers, over the past three years. line. We delivered 8,000 boxes of instant coffee and donation money ment. In Fuel Cell BG, we promote localization for the fuel Doosan Corporation is committed to expand agreements in 2018, and the total number of tea cups delivered to 360 military cell system that has been heavily dependent on imports. based on ESG elements. Although the three-year assesscamps around the country so far reached 38.5 million. Based on this, we provided approximately KRW 17.2 bilment index has declined due to the increase of new suplion worth of new business opportunities to local suppliers pliers including foreign companies, we plan to expand our since 2017. 84 85 Introduction 87_Economic Performance Economic Performance Design the Future Spark the Growth 89_Environmental Performance Business & Impacts Appendix CSR Management 92_Social Performance >CSR Strategy and Key Activities 94_Materiality Test · Transparency of Governance·Stakeholder Engagement 95_Principles of Charitable Contribution and Sponsorship · Interview with Experts · Risk Management 96_Human Rights Policy · Anti-corruption·Ethical Management·Fair Trade · Research and Development 97_GRI Index Financial Performance · Customer Satisfaction·Quality Management · Talent Management 101_Membership & Awards Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 · Environment and Safety Management · Supply Chain Management 102_Independent Assurance Statement Total assets 3,478,223 3,744,673 3,950,029 4,734,223 · Social Contribution 104_Greenhouse Gas Verification Statement Current assets 713,534 810,638 980,974 1,176,134 Appendix Non-current assets 2,764,689 2,934,035 2,969,055 3,558,089 Total liabilities 1,368,966 1,632,123 1,750,271 2,428,715 Current liabilities 870,354 1,042,961 1,319,120 1,404,103 Non-current liabilities 498,612 589,161 431,151 1,024,613 Total equity 2,109,256 2,112,550 2,199,759 2,305,508 Balance Sheet Capital 134,838 134,838 134,846 134,846 Capital surplus 668,082 678,233 680,215 734,169 Other capital -426,551 -428,592 -395,601 -343,557 adjustments Other accumulated income 42,963 39,338 48,546 137,013 (loss) Earned surplus 1,689,925 1,688,734 1,731,753 1,643,037 Total liabilities and equity 3,478,223 3,744,673 3,950,029 4,734,223 Operating income KRW 1,873,556 2,067,136 2,624,829 2,919,401 Million Sales 1,759,222 1,887,802 2,530,569 2,822,149 Dividend profits 114,334 179,334 94,260 97,252 Operating expenses 1,660,155 1,841,764 2,348,072 2,666,038 Cost of sales 1,377,076 1,476,840 1,932,771 2,163,103 Selling, general, and 283,079 364,924 415,301 502,935 administrative expenses Operating profits 213,401 225,371 276,757 253,363 Income Statement Non-operating profit 44,342 42,678 90,329 45,221 Non-operating profits 97,708 113,753 114,347 115,898 Net income before income 160,035 154,297 252,739 182,686 taxes Corporate tax expenses 36,711 495 47,638 24,073 Income from continuing 123,324 153,802 205,100 158,613 operations Income/Loss from 0 0 0 0 discontinued operations Net income 123,324 153,802 205,100 158,613 86 87 Introduction Doosan Group Design the Future Spark the Growth Environmental Performance Introduction Business & Impacts Design the Future Spark the Growth CSR Management Business >CSR Strategy & Impacts and Key Activities · Transparency of Governance·Stakeholder CSR Management Engagement · Interview with Experts Appendix Environmental Efficiency · Risk Management > · Economic PerformanceManagement·Fair Trade Anti-corruption·Ethical Credit Rating Environmental Investments (Domestic/Overseas) ·>Environmental Performance Research and Development Social Performance · Customer Satisfaction·Quality Management Category 2015 2016 2017 2018 · Materiality Test Talent Management Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 · Principles Environment Charitable of and Contribution and Safety Management Korea Investors Service, Inc. A AAASponsorship · Supply Chain Management 80.2 101.2 88.2 110.7 ·· Human Rights Policy Social Contribution Credit Rating Korea Ratings Corporation A AAAEnvironmental · GRI Index KRW 0.1 Appendix NICE Information Service Co. A AAAInvestment and Domestic 52.8 72.6 61.9 70.4 · Membership & Awards Billion · Independent Assurance Statement Expenses Distribution of Economic Outcomes Overseas1) 27.4 28.6 26.3 40.4 · Greenhouse Gas Verification Statement Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 1) Scope of overseas data collection has expanded: Changshu, CFL, DLE, DIVC, DMJC, DFCA Investors Interest expenses 382 382 423 566 2) Air Pollutants Shareholders Dividend 723 913 1,004 1,024 Sales (excluding dividend Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 Customers 17,592 18,878 25,306 28,221 payouts) NOx Emissions 56.7 58.2 55.4 65.8 Purchasing expenditure Suppliers 10,718 13,003 14,390 14,514 Tons (excluding tax-exempt items) SOx Emissions 0.3 1.2 1.0 2.0 Salary, severance pay, benefits, KRW 0.1 Employees Billion 2,674 2,896 2,857 3,079 2) The figures for 2018 include data from Oversea Corporation (Changshu). However, CFL, CFAPZ, DLE, DIVC, DMJC, and DFCA are not etc. subject to measurement. NOx and SOx emissions are not applicable. Taxes and utility charges, Government 408 44 516 335 corporate tax expenses Water Use (Domestic/Overseas) Donations, expenses related Local Community to corporate community 171 74 73 57 Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 involvement Total 32,668 36,189 44,595 48,653 Total Water Use 1,008 967 1,011 1,042 R&D Total 559 500 515 502 Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 Water supply 383 427 457 360 KRW 0.1 Domestic R&D investments 453 630 880 875 R&D Billion Groundwater 176 73 58 83 R&D investment to sales % 2.6 3.2 3.7 4.4 Thousand All other sources 0 0 0 0 Tons Customer Satisfaction Total 449 467 496 540 Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 Customer Satisfaction Index Water supply 379 414 416 444 3.5 3.5 3.5 3.9 Overseas3) (Electro-Materials BG) Points Groundwater 0 0 0 0 Customer Satisfaction Index (Mottrol BG) 3.4 3.8 3.6 3.7 Anti-corruption/Ethical Management All other sources 70 53 80 96 Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 3) Scope of overseas data collection has expanded: Changshu, CFL, DLE, DIVC, DMJC, DFCA Ethical Hours/ Education Hours per Capita 1.8 1.0 1.0 0.9 Discharge of Wastewater Management Persons Education Education participants Persons 1,890 2,295 2,056 2,231 Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 Sustainable Supply Chain Total 401 415 413 433 Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 Discharge of Thousand Domestic 181 168 179 184 No. of key suppliers 365 342 235 180 Wastewater Tons No. of suppliers subject to Suppliers Overseas 220 247 234 249 121 123 127 Sustainability of sustainability assessment Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) 20 21 22 32 Supply Chain Total purchases from suppliers 10,718 13,003 14,390 14,623 ppm KRW 0.1 Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) 12 18 16 17 Purchases from key suppliers 7,367 7,474 9,668 6,942 Billion Total purchases from SMEs 5,059 6,309 6,930 7,093 88 89 Introduction Doosan Group Design the Future Spark the Growth Introduction Business & Impacts Design the Future Spark the Growth CSR Management Business >CSR Strategy& Impacts and Key Activities · Transparency of Governance·Stakeholder CSR Management Engagement · Interview with Experts Appendix Climate Change · Risk Management Economic PerformanceManagement·Fair Trade · Anti-corruption·Ethical > · Environmental Performance Consumption of Resources GHG Emissions (Domestic/Overseas) Research and Development · Social Performance Customer Satisfaction·Quality Management Materiality · Talent Test Management Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 2018 · Principles Environment of and Charitable Contribution and Safety Management Sponsorship · Supply Chain Management Total 52,121 56,588 65,097 80,766 Total GHG Emissions 165.6 172.4 189.8 179.1 ·· Human Rights Policy Social Contribution · GRI Index Copper foil 6,651 6,501 5,634 5,062 Total 77.5 81.6 86.0 83.5 Appendix · Membership & Awards · Independent Assurance Statement Domestic Scope 1 29.2 28.9 25.1 23.4 · Greenhouse Gas Verification Statement Glass fabric 17,852 20,125 18,042 16,920 Thousand Scope 2 48.3 52.7 60.9 60.1 Epoxy resin 10,190 10,066 9,679 11,441 GHG Emissions tCO2e Total 88.1 90.8 103.8 95.6 Steel plate 3,993 3,503 4,178 5,120 1) Overseas Scope 1 10.5 10.1 8.9 8.3 Consumption Casting materials 13,201 16,196 27,230 41,943 of Key Raw Tons Scope 2 77.5 80.6 94.9 87.3 Materials Egg yolk powder 99 104 124 92 Total 7.8 7.4 6.4 5.9 GHG Intensity Ethanol 26 19 56 41 (GHG Emissions/ Domestic tCO2e / KRW 4.4 4.3 3.4 3.3 Acetone 37 32 106 78 Sales) 0.1 Billion Overseas 24.7 20.2 23.3 16.3 Steel use stainless plate 32 19 21 31 Electro-Materials 138.2 139.9 151.1 147.4 Steel use stainless tube 9 5 6 9 Industrial Vehicle 4.3 4.2 6.2 6.1 Steel sheet 31 18 21 29 Mottrol 7.5 7.5 9.1 10.2 GHG Emissions Thousand Use of Consumption Tons 56 45 141 104 Fuel Cell 7.6 9.8 11.1 3.7 by BG tCO2e Recycled Rate of consumption % 34.6 28.8 49.0 49.0 Retail 0 2.7 4.2 3.6 Materials 1) Waste Generation (Domestic /Overseas ) 2) Bio 1.9 1.9 2.1 2.5 2) ETC 6.0 6.3 6.0 5.4 Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 1) Scope of overseas data collection has expanded: Changshu, CFL, DIVC, DFCA Waste Generation 19.4 18.1 18.0 17.3 * Among the overseas data for 2018, DFCA was excluded owing to credibility issue for the collected data. 2) Including Corporate Center, Administration Center, and DDI Total 16.6 15.1 14.7 13.7 Domestic General waste 8.7 8.1 6.3 6.7 Energy Consumption (Domestic/Overseas) Designated Waste 7.9 7.0 7.5 7.3 Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 2018 waste Generation by Energy Consumption 2,209 2,312 2,442 2,366 Type Total 2.8 3.0 3.3 3.6 Total 1,563 1,646 1,725 1,643 Overseas General waste 1.9 2.0 2.2 2.2 Thousand Electricity 995 1,061 1,189 1,185 Designated Domestic Tons 0.9 1.0 1.1 1.4 waste Fuel 568 564 481 400 TJ Recycle 10.4 9.7 10.3 11.0 Others 21 55 58 Domestic Landfill 1.0 0.7 0.5 0.3 Total 646 666 717 723 Waste 3) Incineration 5.2 4.7 3.0 2.5 Overseas Electricity 513 533 550 563 Generation by Discharge Recycle 2.7 2.8 2.8 2.8 Fuel 133 133 167 160 Method Total 1.0 1.0 0.8 0.8 Overseas Landfill 0.03 0.03 0.2 0.2 TJ/KRW Energy Intensity Electricity 0.9 0.9 0.7 0.6 Incineration 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.6 Billion 1) Korean waste emission figures may differ from those reported in the past due to changes in the method of calculating emissions Fuel 1.8 1.5 1.6 1.2 of Doota building and Yeongang building 3) Overseas Data Collection Scope: Changshu, CFL, CFAPZ, DLE, DIVC, DMJC, DFCA 2) Scope of overseas data collection has expanded: Changshu, CFL, CFAPZ, DLE, DIVC, DMJC, DFCA * Among the overseas data for 2018, CFAPZ was added, but DFCA was excluded owing to credibility issue for the collected data. 90 91 Introduction Doosan Group Design the Future Spark the Growth Social Performance Introduction Business & Impacts Design the Future Spark the Growth CSR Management Business >CSR Strategy& Impacts and Key Activities · Transparency of Governance·Stakeholder CSR Management Engagement · Interview with Experts Appendix Talent Management · Risk Management Economic PerformanceManagement·Fair Trade · Anti-corruption·Ethical · Environmental Performance Composition of Human Resources Development of Employees’ Capabilities Research and Development > · Social Performance Customer Satisfaction·Quality Management Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 · Materiality Test Talent Management · Principles Environment of and Charitable Contribution and Safety Management Total Employees 3,942 4,165 3,600 3,902 Total Training Expenses KRW Million 7,328 5,685 4,728 4,802 Sponsorship · Supply Chain Management ·· Human Rights Policy Electro-Materials 1,313 1,265 1,251 1315 Total Training Hours Hours 243,900 189,532 103,487 118,351 Social Contribution · GRI Index Industrial Vehicle 535 520 546 585 Appendix · Membership & Awards Training Expenses per KRW 1,000/ 1,859 1,365 1,313 1,464 · Independent Assurance Statement Mottrol 500 484 460 511 Capita Person · Greenhouse Gas Verification Statement DDI 486 464 432 453 Training Hours per Capita Hours/Persons 118 82 46 49 Employees Corporate Office/CC General education 111 71 35 32 by BG/BU 527 433 292 289 /Administration Center Persons Ethical management education 1.8 1.0 1.0 0.9 Retail 327 249 287 Education Status1) Anti-sexual harassment education Hours/Persons 1.2 1.3 1.3 2.6 Fuel Cell 91 223 292 371 Compliance Program education 4.7 2.1 1.4 0.9 Bio 70 73 78 91 Information security education 3.2 5.4 4.6 8.8 Employment Full-time 3,645 3,722 3,541 3,779 1) The total training hours per person is not equivalent to the sum of training hours per person by specific training course Type Contract 297 443 59 123 Gender Male 3,703 3,479 3,067 3,142 Parental Leave and Pension (Full-time) Female 239 686 533 637 Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 Employees who took parental leave 36 33 39 56 Employees Asia 786 705 Employees reinstated after taking parental 24 24 29 35 Overseas Europe Persons 490 680 Employees who availed leave Persons parental leave Americas 646 361 Employees who worked for 12 months or longer since their reinstatement following 10 13 20 21 * Personal resource data are calculated based on the tax payee at the end of 2018 and may differ from the figures reported in the parental leave business report. Funds under management KRW Million 102,364 122,749 128,396 150,250 Employment and Turnover Pension Defined Benefits (DB) 3,490 3,329 2,828 3,345 Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 Persons Defined Contribution (DC) 39 29 39 34 Full-time 76 371 259 286 New Recruits Contract 163 226 74 118 Human Rights Persons Employment Disabled 37 50 42 47 Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 Diversity Veterans 29 32 44 38 Human Rights Education Hours 2,403 3,111 2,968 6,180 Employment Employees Participating in Human Rights Education2) 100 100 100 % 4.3 5.8 4.7 6.1 % Turnover (Full-time) Suppliers Subject to Human Rights Assessment 6 8 7 Labor Practices 2) Human rights education was conducted for all of the domestic employees for up to 30 times, excluding those working overseas and those on Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 leave. Education materials were provided to those who could not attend the collective education courses to allow self-study. Ratio of Workers Enrolled with Labor Unions1) Persons 78 78.8 79.1 78.8 Corporate Community Involvement 1) Ratio of employees belonging to the labor unions = Number of employees belonging to the labor unions / Number of total employees Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 Total 7,400 7,288 5,747 Assessment of Achievements Charitable contribution 753 1,079 669 Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 CCI investments 5,959 4,621 4,555 Ratio of Employees Who Received Formal Evaluation of CCI expenses3) KRW Million % 99.3 99.8 99.8 100 Commercial initiative (public service Performance 2) 450 1,389 326 marketing, etc.) 2) For white collars Time cost of employee’s contribution 237 200 198 Health and Safety activities Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 Employee Volunteering Persons 2,564 2,242 2,328 Rate of Occupational Accidents 3) Employees % 0.12 0.15 0.25 0.26 Volunteer Hours Hours 9,199 7,623 7,255 Employees Rate of Occupational 0.70 0.98 1.38 1.29 3) Community contribution costs may differ from those reported in the past due to changes in calculation and classification methods. LTIFR4) Accidents per Million Suppliers Hours 3.14 0.67 Business Associations Disease Rate per Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 OIFR5) Employees 0.35 0.16 0.13 Million Hours Total Expenses KRW Million 816.6 855.4 675.8 828.7 3) Approval criteria for industrial accidents * Top five categories of expenses in 2018: H2KOREA (KRW 150 million), Incheon Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KRW 80 million), Korea Employers 4) LTIFR (Lost Time Incidents Frequency Rate): Total number of incidents / total working hours * 1,000,000 Federation (KRW 79 million), Korea International Trade Association (KRW 73 million), Gimcheon Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KRW 65 million) 5) OIFR (Occupational Illness Frequency Rate): Total number of diseases / Total working hours * 1,000,000 92 93 Introduction Doosan Group Design the Future Spark the Growth Materiality Test Principles of Charitable Contribution and Sponsorship Introduction Business & Impacts Design the Future Spark the Growth CSR Management Business & Impacts >CSR Strategy and Key Activities · Transparency of Governance·Stakeholder CSR Management Engagement · Interview with Experts Appendix · Risk Management Economic PerformanceManagement·Fair Trade · Anti-corruption·Ethical Doosan Corporation conducts materiality test every standards (GRI Standards, DJSI, ISO26000, UNGC) · Environmental Performance Research and Development · Social Performance Customer Satisfaction·Quality Management year with the participation of all relevant stakeholders were considered for the materiality test. Priorities of is>· Materiality Test Doosan Corporation operates the Social Contribution Committee to promote transparent and appropriate donaTalent Management in order to identify essential key issues for sustainable sues were evaluated based on media research, global > · Principles Environment of Charitable and Safety Contribution Managementand tions based on the following principles. Sponsorship · Supply Chain Management management in terms of economy, environment, and benchmarking, and Doosan Corporation's internal ·· Human Rights Policy Social Contribution · GRI Index society. The materiality test for 2018 CSR Report was data analysis. The key issues selected through mateAppendix · Membership & Awards conducted in a four-step process: 1) Building issue riality assessment are disclosed in the Doosan Corpo· Independent Assurance Statement · Greenhouse Gas Verification Statement pool 2) Prioritization of issues 3) Identification of issues ration CSR Report. 4) Communication of issues. CSR related international • The company defines donations” as the amount that it provides to an Materiality Map No. Area Issue Donation individual, a group or an institution, regardless of the name of support payments 1 Employees Realization of a desirable organizational culture for or sponsored money. workplaces 2 1 2 CSR General Securing new growth engines Social interest (Economy) (business diversification, new market etc.) 3 3 CSR General Creating economic performance and improving 4 (Economy) financial safety 8 5 4 Environmental Response to Climate Change • The company establishes and operates the Social Contribution Committee Management 10 6 as a body to deliberate and decide on all matters related to donations. 9 7 5 Local CCI activities aligned with core business Social 11 communities • The Committee consists of the Chairperson of CSR Committee, CFO and Contribution 6 Employees Enhancement of competencies of employees Legal Affairs Officer and eviews donations of more than KRW 10 million. Committee 7 Safety Realization of a safe work environment • It also deliberates and decides upon the purpose, type of charitable Management foundations, amounts and uses of donation money. 8 CSR General Increased investment in R&D (R&D) 9 Customers Highest level of quality management 10 Suppliers Expanding communication with suppliers Business impact 11 Environmental Development of environment-friendly products and Management services • The company avoids risks that may arise from donations, through the Social Contribution Committee: Ensures corporate contributions are not used as bribes. Prevention Core Issues Related Issues Business Relevance Key Stakeholders Page Identify the justification and assess the appropriateness of new charitable of Risk foundations. Challenge and • Securing new growth engines (business Challenges and innovations for the future are closely Customers, 40p. Innovation for diversification, new market etc.) linked to corporate sustainability. Securing new Shareholders and Prevents donation and sponsorship risks that can be perceived as political the Future • Development of eco-friendly products growth engines and building a sustainable business Investors contributions. and services portfolio are essential approaches to strengthening • Increased investment in R&D the company's competitiveness in the future. Realization • Realization of a desirable organizational The company's fundamental competitiveness comes Employees 44p. of a peopleculture for workplaces from its employees possessing leadership and centered • Enhancement of employee competence, in these constantly changing market organizational competencies conditions and in the age of limitless competition. • Donations made by the company are disclosed to the public through the culture Disclosure Implementing a good organizational culture and business report and CSR report. attracting key talented people are major priorities for the company's future sustainability. Efforts for a • Response to Climate Change EHS activities of companies that are closely related Local communities, 48p. safe and clean • Realization of a safe work environment to health and safety of stakeholders have become a Employees society major concern of corporate stakeholders. In addition, EHS enhancement activities for environmental issues such as environmental pollution, water shortage has become the core of corporate risk management. Practice of • Expanding communication channels Collaboration with stakeholders in the value chain Suppliers 52p. shared growth with the suppliers is an essential element of corporate management • CCI activities aligned to the business in the global business competition space. Mutual growth activities to coexist with a wide range of stakeholders, such as communities and partners, are not an option today but instead have become an essential requirement. 94 95 Introduction Doosan Group Design the Future Spark the Growth Human Rights Policy GRI Standards Index Introduction Business & Impacts Design the Future Spark the Growth CSR Management Business & Impacts >CSR Strategy and Key Activities · Transparency of Governance·Stakeholder CSR Management Engagement · Interview with Experts Appendix General Standards · Risk Management Economic PerformanceManagement·Fair Trade · Anti-corruption·Ethical · Environmental Performance Research and Development Index Contents Page Reference information · Social Performance Customer Satisfaction·Quality Management · Materiality Test Talent Management Introduction to Business · Principles of and Charitable Contribution and As a member of UN Global Compact, Doosan abides by 10 principles in the four arEnvironment Safety Management Sponsorship · Supply Chain Management eas of human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. We publicly support and 102-1 Name of organization 6 > · Human Rights Policy Social Contribution strive to respect internationally-recognized human rights principles including ‘Universal 102-2 Representative brand, products, and services 12-35 >GRI Index Appendix · Membership & Awards Declaration of Human Rights’ and ‘UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human 102-3 Location of the home office 6-7 · Independent Assurance Statement Rights: Ruggie Framework’. · Greenhouse Gas Verification Statement 102-4 Location of business place/site 6-7 To prevent human rights violations that may occur in the business process, Doosan System for Implementation 102-5 Characteristics and legal form of ownership 6-7 and Review of Human Rights has established a human rights management system as described below. In case of Management human rights violation, we make our best efforts to carry out rectification measures. 102-6 Report on the target market 6-7 We aim to grow with society through sustainable improvement activities. 102-7 Size of organization 6-7 102-8 Information concerning employees 6, 92 1. Ensuring Employment Non-discrimination, and Freedom of Association and 01. Commitment 52-54, Human Rights Policy Collective Bargaining 102-9 Description of the organization's supply chain 83-84 We strive to avoid any unjust discrimination regarding employment based on gender, religion, disability, age, social status, region of origin, etc. Furthermore, we recognize workers’ freedom 52-54, 102-10 Major changes in the scale, structure, and ownership of the organization or supply chain of association and collective bargaining, and do not pursue any punitive action against workers 83-84 for labor union activities. 102-11 Description of the principles of advance prevention and access methods 70-71 02. Risk & Impact Assessment 102-12 External initiatives 61, 101 Preparation of a Company2. Prohibition of Forced Labor and Child Labor 102-13 Membership in associations or national/international policy organizations 101 wide Human Rights We do not accept any form of forced labor that may occur in business activities, and abide Assessment System Strategies by the minimum age for employment set by the country of business. We follow the minimum 1. Establishment of Declaration by the supreme decision maker of the organization and strategies related assessment area employment age prescribed by laws of the country of business and in case of finding that we 102-14 2-5 2. Establishment of hired a minor, we take an immediate remedial measure to prevent all wrongful labor practices to sustainability assessment scope that damage human dignity. 10-11, 3. Establishment of 102-15 Key elements of impact, risk, and opportunity assessment period & plan 12-35 4. Summarization of 3. Securement of Industrial Safety and Management of Responsible Supply Chains Ethics and integrity assessment result We strive to maintain a safe working environment and follow environmental, health and safety Organizational values, principles, standards, and business standards, including code laws and standards applied to the workplace. In addition, we adopt separate safety and health 102-16 10, 95-96 of conduct and Code of Conduct measures for pregnant women, the disabled and other vulnerable workers. We establish and Internal and external mechanism for advice on compliance with ethics and statutes, continuously check policies and guidelines related to CSR risks of our supply network. We also 102-17 72 integrity of the organization monitor all business partners. 03. Preventive & Governance structure Mitigating Actions 4. Protection of Human Rights and Environmental Rights of Local Residents Plan for Risk Prevention 102-18 Governance structure 66-67 Measures Based on We respect local residents’ rights to life and freedom of relocation, as well as individuals’ Assessment Results rights related to safety and property ownership. In addition, we adhere to principles of preGovernance structure of the organization, including committees of the supreme 102-19 66-67 1. Institutional solutions for ventive approach on environmental issues and systematically implement plans to prevent, governance body the susceptible areas mitigate, and control serious environmental damage and environmental disasters. 2. Education and Procedure for the supreme governance body’s delegation of authority on economic, communication 102-20 66-67 environmental, and social matters to high-ranking employees 5. Protection of Customers’ Human Rights We pay necessary attention to marking design, manufacturing conditions and other indiReport if any officer-level personnel has been appointed to posts responsible for 102-21 66-67 economic, environmental, and social issues within the organization cations on products in accordance with the legal standards to prevent product defects causing damage to customers’ life, health, and safety. In case of detecting damage after Processes by which the supreme governance body consults stakeholders concerning 04. Performance 102-22 66-67 Assessment & a product is launched in the market, we notify customers of the risk and recall the prodeconomic, environmental, and social issues Disclosure uct immediately. Moreover, we take necessary measures to protect personal information 102-23 Supreme governance body and organization of its committees 66-67 Review and Reporting of collected by our company based on our policy of respecting privacy of customers and Human Rights Management Report if the chairperson of the supreme governance body concurrently serves as an employees. 102-24 66-67 Assessment officer Disclosure of Human Rights Management Doosan operates the online Whistle Blowing Center (https://ethicshelpline.doosan.com/ Procedure for the appointment and selection of the supreme governance body and its 102-26 66-67 cbrpt/frontView.do) on our website to prevent possible human rights violations occurring subordinate committees in the business process. We protect the whistleblower through confidentiality principles Roles of the supreme governance body and high-ranking officers in developing, and handle the issue in a quick and fair manner. approving, and improving the objectives, values of the organization, and the Doosan will take the lead in supporting and respecting the human rights principles as 102-27 66-67 organization's mission, strategy, policies, and objectives related to economic, Proud Global Doosan. environmental, and social impacts 96 97 Introduction Doosan Group Design the Future Spark the Growth Introduction Business & Impacts Design the Future Spark the Growth CSR Management Business >CSR Strategy& Impacts and Key Activities · Transparency of Governance·Stakeholder CSR Management Engagement · Interview with Experts Appendix Topic-Specific Standards · Risk Management Economic PerformanceManagement·Fair Trade · Anti-corruption·Ethical Roles of the supreme decision-making body that surveys and controls economic, Index Contents Page Reference information · Environmental Performance Research and Development 102-29 66-67 · Social Performance Customer Satisfaction·Quality Management environmental, and social impacts, crises, and opportunity factors Direct economic effect · Materiality Test Talent Management Roles of the supreme decision-making body in examining the effectiveness of risk · Principles Environment of and Charitable Contribution and Safety Management 102-30 66-67 Management Approach 10, 40 Sponsorship management processes for economic, environmental, and social issues · Supply Chain Management ·· Human Rights Policy 201-1 Creation and distribution of direct economic values 87-88 Social Contribution Frequency of examination by the supreme decision-making body concerning > GRI Index 102-31 66-67 Appendix economic, environmental, and social impacts, crises, and opportunity factors Energy · Membership & Awards · Independent Assurance Statement 102-33 Procedure for reporting major matters to the supreme governance body 66-67 Management Approach 48 · Greenhouse Gas Verification Statement Reporting frequency, and nature of the system for handling or settling major 302-1 Energy consumed inside the organization 91 102-34 66-67 matters reported to the supreme governance body 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 49, 91 Reward policies for the supreme decision-making body and high-ranking 102-35 66-67 Occupational safety and health management approach management team members Occupational Safety and Health Management Approach 48 102-36 Procedure and standards for determining payroll 66-67 Ratio of employees represented by the labor-management joint health and safety committee that Composed in equal ratio 403-1 Stakeholders’ participation monitors and provides advises on occupational safety and health (50%) 102-40 List of stakeholder groups related to, or participating in, the organization 67 Education and Training Management Approach 44 102-41 Ratio of employees subject to collective agreement 92 404-1 Average training hours in a year per worker 93 102-42 Standards for identifying and selecting stakeholders 67 404-3 Ratio of employees whose performance and career development have been examined periodically 92 102-43 Method of inducing stakeholders' participation 67 Local Communities Methods and outcome, reports published in response to major issues raised Management Approach 52 102-44 67-69, 94 through stakeholders’ participation 100%, DDCS, program Introduction to reports Ratio of worksites that participate in local communities to perform programs for assessing impacts participating in local 413-1 55, 85 and help develop them community, performed by 6-7, all worksites All subsidiary companies and joint venture companies included in consolidated 102-45 Business financial statements or identical documents of the organization Social Assessment of Supply Chain Report About This Management Approach 52 102-46 Processes defining the boundary of contents and aspects of reports Report No negative social impact 414-2 Negative social impact in the supply chain and actions against it 83-84 102-43 Method of inducing stakeholders' participation 94 within the supply chain Effects and causes with regard to re-describing the information provided in About This 102-48 previous reports Report Major changes from previous reporting periods in terms of scope, subject, or About This Other Standards 102-49 boundary Report Index Contents Page Reference information About This Direct economic effect 102-50 Reporting period Report 201-3 Appropriation of liabilities for defined benefit pension system of the organization 93 About This 102-51 Date of the latest report Report Anti-corruption About This 205-1 Number and ratio of worksites that assessed corruption risks and major risks identified 72 102-52 Report frequency Report 205-2 Disclosure of and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 72 102-53 Contact for information concerning this report as well as related contents 61 205-3 Confirmed corruption cases and actions against them 13 cases Acts of Obstructing Competition About This 102-54 “In accordance with” the method selected by the organization Report 206-1 Number and outcome of legal actions against unfair transactions, including acts of obstructing 0 case competition and monopolistic or oligarchic acts 102-55 GRI Index reporting 97-100 Raw Materials 102-56 External verification 102-103 301-1 Weight or volume of raw materials used 90 301-2 Ratio of raw materials inputted after recycling 90 Energy 302-2 Energy consumed outside the organization 91 302-3 Degree of energy concentration 91 302-5 Reduction of energy required for products and services 49 Water Resources 303-1 Total volume of water intake by source 89 98 99 Introduction Doosan Group Design the Future Spark the Growth Membership & Awards Introduction Business & Impacts Design the Future Spark the Growth CSR Management Business >CSR Strategy& Impacts and Key Activities · Transparency of Governance·Stakeholder CSR Management Engagement · Interview with Experts Appendix Memberships · Risk Management Economic PerformanceManagement·Fair Trade · Anti-corruption·Ethical Emissions into Air Classification Associations and Organizations · Environmental Performance Research and Development · Social Performance Customer Satisfaction·Quality Management 305-1 Direct emission of greenhouse gases (Scope 1) 91 Doosan Korea Employers Federation, Korea Listed Companies Association, Institute for Global Economics, Korea Advertisers Association, Korea Chamber of · Materiality Test Talent Management · Principles Charitable of and Contribution and 305-2 Energy Indirect GHG (Scope 2) 91 Corporation Commerce and Industry, Korea Industrial Technology Association, Korea Mecenat Association, Korea IR Service, MagKyung S.E.L(Safety & Environment Environment Safety Management Sponsorship · Supply Chain Management 305-4 Degree of concentration of emitted greenhouse gases 91 Leaders) Club, Fair Competition Federation ·· Human Rights Policy Social Contribution 305-5 Reduction of emitted greenhouse gases 91 ElectroGimcheon Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Iksan Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Cheongju Chamber of Commerce and Industry, JIEP(Japan > GRI Index Appendix Materials BG Institute of Electronics Packaging), Korea Display Industry Association(KDIA), Korea Printed Circuit Association(KPCA), SEMI(Semiconductor Equipment and > Membership & Awards 305-7 NOx, SOx, and other major gases emitted into the air 89 · Independent Assurance Statement Material Institute), Korea Industrial Technology Association(KOITA), The Korean Microelectronics and Packaging Society, Chungcheong Regional Chemical · Greenhouse Gas Verification Statement Emission into Water Safety Association, Gyeongbuk Employers Federation, The Polymer Society of Korea, Korean Information Display Society(KIDS), Korea Environmental 306-1 Water quality and total volume discharged by destination 89 Preservation Association, Korea Environmental Preservation Association-Jeonbuk Regional District, Korea Environmental Preservation Association-Gyeonggbuk Regional District, Iksan Business Environment Council, Iksan Safety and Health Managers’ Council, Iksan Fire and Hazard Managers’ Council, Jeungpyeong 306-2 Total weight of wastes by type and treatment method 90 County Enterpreneur Association, Korea Industrial Safety Association-Chungbuk Regional District, Korea Industrial Safety Association, Korea Industrial Safety Compliance with Environmental Regulations Association-Gyeonggbuk Regional District, Meeting of Equipment Industry CEOs and Equipment subcommittee within Korea Display Industry Association, Jeonbuk Regional Chemical Plant Council, Jeonbuk Environmental Management Association, Western Gyeongbuk Environmental Engineers Association, Amount of major fines and instances of non-financial sanctions for violations of statutes and 307-1 0 case Gumi〮Gimcheon Safety Management Association, Gimcheon Regional Fire Administrator Association, Iksan Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Korean environmental regulations Association of Occupational Health Nurses, Daegu 〮 Gyeongbuk Process Safety Management Council, Korea Electric Engineers Association, Korea Fire Environmental Assessment on the Supply Chain Safety Association, Korea Fire Safety Association-Gyeonggbuk Regional District, Korea Electric Engineers Association, Korea Energy Engineers Association308-1 Ratio of new vendors passing the review of environmental standards 83-84 Gyeonggbuk Regional District, Korean Nurses Association-Chungbuk Regional District, Korean Nurses Association, Chungcheong Regional Process Safety Actual or potential major negative environmental impact in the supply chain and actions Management Council, Korea Chemical Society 308-2 83-84 against it Industrial World Industrial Truck Statistics(WITS), Korea Industrial Technology Association(KOITA), KSA (Korean Standards Association), Korea Energy Agency, Incheon Vehicle BG Chamber of Commerce and Industry, North America Fork Lift Truck Association, European Materials Handling Federation(FEM), Korea Construction Equipment Employment Manufacturers Association, Fork Lift Truck Association, China Industrial Truck Association(CITA), Incheon Environmental Volunteer Association, Korea Industrial 401-1 Number and ratio of employees newly hired and those who left the organization 92 Safety Association, Korea Fire Safety Association, Korea Construction Engineers Association 401-3 Ratio of employees returning from nursing leave to continue service 93 Mottrol BG Changwon Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Korea Construction Equipment Manufacturers Association, Korea Industrial Complex Corporation-Korea Occupational safety and health management approach Defense Council, Korea Industrial Complex Corp, Korean Society for Fluid Power and Construction Equipment, Volvo Construction Machine Korean Partners Type and rate of injuries, rate of occupational diseases, rate of leave days, rate of absence, Association, Gyeongnam Regional Industrial Security Executive Council, Gyeongnam Regional Employers Federation, Korea Defense Industry Association, 403-2 92 Japan Fluid Power Society(JFPS), Korea Industrial Safety Association, Security Council for Defense Companies-Gyeongnam Regional District, Korean Nurses and number of work-related deaths Association(Gyeongsangnam-do Nurses Association), Changwon Industrial Complex reserve power manager's Union Council, Korean Industrial Health 403-4 Safety and health issues subject to formal agreement with the labor union 82 Association, Korea Energy Engineers Association, Korea Electric Engineers Association, Korea Fire Safety Association, Korea Occupational Hygiene Association Diversity and Equal Opportunity Retail BG Seoul Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Korea Duty Free Association Composition of governance organizations and status of employees by category (by gender, 405-1 92 Fuel Cell BG Korea Electric Association, H2KOREA, Korea International Trade Association, Korea New and Renewable Energy Association, SOFC Industrialization Forum, age, minority group, and other diversity indicators) Korea Hydrogen Industry Association, Iksan Safety and Health Association, Environmental Engineers Association-Jeonbuk Regional District, Iksan Business ‘Employee Status’ Environment Council 405-2 Basic pay and reward ratio of pay of female to male employees in Business Report Bio BU Iksan Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Phospholipid research center, Seoul Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Iksan Regional Fire and Hazard Managers’ Council, Korea Industrial Safety Association, Jeonbuk Environmental Engineers Federation, Jeonbuk Regional Chemical Plant Council, Iksan Safety Prohibition of Discrimination and Health Managers’ Council, KDRA(Korea Drug Research Association), Iksan Business Environment Council, Korea Fire Safety Association, Korea Electric 406-1 Number of discrimination cases and their corrective actions 0 case Engineers Association, Korea Energy Engineers Association Rights of Local Communities DDI BU Seoul Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Korea Duty Free Association 0 case, Infringement of Number of cases involving the infringement of native residents' rights and actions against human rights of 411-1 them residents in areas where the worksite is located Awards Evaluation of Human Rights Classification Name of Award Hosted by Date awarded Number and ratio of worksites subject to review of human rights or assessment of impact on Industrial Citation by the Minister of Industry and Trade at the 4th Technology Regulatory Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy 2018.11 412-1 79-80 human rights Vehicle BG Policy Forum Hours of employee training on human rights policies and procedure related to business and Best of Best Korea Association of Industrial Design 2018.12 412-2 79-80 ratio of those who underwent such training PIN UP BEST 100 Korea Association of Industrial Design 2018.12 Number and ratio of major investment agreements or contracts wherein human rights 412-3 79-80 Mottrol BG Citation by the Minister of Environment for contribution to green management Ministry of Environment 2018.07 provisions are included or human rights are examined (Deputy general manager Jung Gil-yong) Social Assessment of Supply Chain Award for Project Excellence Volvo Construction Machine Korea 2018.06 414-1 Ratio of new vendors undergoing review based on social standards 83-84 ElectroCitation by the Prime Minister (Labor Day) Ministry of Employment and Labor 2018.04 Safety and Health of Customers Materials BG Technical Prize' for 2018 in The Polymer Society of Korea Fall Academy Award The Polymer Society of Korea 2018.04 Number of violations of statutory and autonomous provisions concerning the safety and health Citation by the Korea Red Cross Jeollalbuk-do Center Korea Red Cross Jeollalbuk-do Center 2018.12 416-2 0 case impact of products and services during the product life cycle Appreciation plaque by the Korea Association of Health Promotion Korea Association of Health Promotion 2018.11 Protection of Customers' Personal Information Prize in the Korea Fire Institute Contest Korea Fire Institute 2018.11 Number of violations of regulations for protecting customers’ personal information and 418-1 0 case Prize in the Korea Fire Institute Contest Korea Fire Institute 2018.11 complaints concerning verified leak of customer information Citation by the Gwangju Regional Ministry of Employment and Labor Gwangju Regional Ministry of Employment and Labor 2018.07 Compliance with Socio-economic Regulations Citation by the Korea Industrial Safety Association Korea Industrial Safety Association 2018.12 Amount of major fines and instances of non-financial sanctions for violations of statutes and 419-1 0 case Public CPR Content (Excellence Prize) Jeungpyeong Fire Station 2018.02 regulations 100 101 Introduction Doosan Group Design the Future Spark the Growth Independent Assurance Statement Introduction Business & Impacts Design the Future Spark the Growth CSR Management Business >CSR Strategy& Impacts and Key Activities · Transparency of Governance·Stakeholder CSR Management Engagement · Interview with Experts Appendix · Risk Management Economic PerformanceManagement·Fair Trade · Anti-corruption·Ethical · Environmental Performance Research and Development · Social Performance Customer Satisfaction·Quality Management Introduction Conclusion · Materiality Test Talent Management Doosan Corporation (“Doosan”) commissioned DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd. (“DNV GL”), part of DNV On the basis of the work undertaken, nothing comes to our attention to suggest that the reported data and information disclosed · Principles Environment of and Charitable Contribution and Safety Management Sponsorship · Supply Chain Management GL Group, to undertake independent assurance of Doosan corporation CSR Report 2018 (the “Report”). The in the Report do not give a fair representation of Doosan’ sustainability performance. Further opinions with regards to the adher·· Human Rights Policy Social Contribution directors of Doosan have sole responsibility for the preparation of the Report. The responsibility of DNV GL in ence to the Principles are made below; · GRI Index Appendix · Membership & Awards performing the assurance work is to the management of Doosan in accordance with the terms of reference. DNV > Independent Assurance Statement GL’s assurance engagements are based on the assumption that the data and information provided by the client The Principle of Inclusivity · Greenhouse Gas Verification Statement to us as part of our review have been provided in good faith. Doosan has identified 6 internal and external stakeholder groups such as Shareholders and Investors, Customers, Employees, Suppliers, Local Communities and Regulators. Doosan engages with the stakeholders at the company and business unit levels Scope of assurance through various channels. The Report provides the definition of stakeholder, expectations and requests by key stakeholders, Based on non-financial data and sustainability activities and performance data generated in 2018 from Doosan’s and communication channels. Doosan reflects the results of its stakeholder engagement activities in its management activities. headquarters and domestic facilities, we have evaluated the adherence to AA1000 Accountability Principles (AP) The activities and performance of key stakeholders are disclosed through the Report. 2018 and assessed the quality of sustainability performance information. We have reviewed that the Topic-specific disclosures of GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards 2016 which are identified in the materiality determinaThe Principle of Materiality tion process; Doosan has conducted the materiality assessment to prepare the Report. 38 various issues have been derived by analysing the topics covered in various global initiatives and standards, media research, global benchmarking PRJC-598972-2019-AST-KOR No. Material Topics GRI Disclosure No. Material Topics GRI Disclosure Page 3 of 4 and internal data analysis. The issue pools were used to rate the material topics in terms of business relevance and impact on the stakeholders. 11 material topics are prioritized accordingly. Doosan has divided material topics identified in the Build organizational culture for 1 Non GRI 7 Build a safe work place 403-1 materiality assessment into 4 reporting topics and presented the management approach and major performances for each stakegood workplaces holder issue in the Report. Doosan discloses the prioritized material sustainability topics in a comprehensive and balanced way. Secure new growth engine 2 (Business diversification, new Non GRI 8 Increase in investment in R&D Non GRI The Principle of Responsiveness market entry, etc.) The ‘CSR Achievements and Plans' section of the Report in which Doosan's 2018 activities, plans, and performance indicators are Achieve good financial performance addressed helps stakeholders understand Doosan' sustainability management.. In addition, the Report discloses the key perfor3 201-1 9 Highest level of quality control Non GRI and improve financial stability mance and results in 2018. The Report is prepared in a comparable, comprehensive, and timely way using the reporting principles. More frequent communication and 4 Response to Climate Change 302-1, 302-4 10 414-2 engagement with suppliers The Principle of Impact Social contribution activities utilizing Development of environmentfriendly 5 413-1 11 Non GRI The Report presents the direct and indirect impacts of material topics identified materiality assessment. Doosan identifies, monthe characteristics of business products and services itors and assesses the impacts of material topics to stakeholders. Doosan has presented business relevance and key stake6 Strengthening Employee Capability 404-1, 404-3 12 holders corresponding to the respective material topics. In addition, Doosan measures social values by taking into account not only financial performance but also the impact on all stakeholders.As a result, Doosan discloses corporate social value as an We performed our work using AA1000AS (2008) and DNV GL’s assurance methodology VeriSustainTM1) (Version effort to upgrade the level of social responsibility management. 5.0) which is based on our professional experience, international assurance best practices. DNV GL provides Type 1 and the moderate level of assurance. The assurance was carried out from May and till July 2019. The site Quality on sustainability performance information visit was made to Doosan’s Headquarters in Seoul, Korea. We undertook the following activities as part of the We have tested data and information on a sampling basis. The intentional error or misstatement is not noted from the data and assurance process: information disclosed in the Report. Data owners were able to demonstrate the origin and interpretation of the data in a reliable • challenged the sustainability-related statements and claims made in the Report and assessed manner. The data was identifiable and traceable. the robustness of the underlying data management system, information flow and controls; • interviewed representatives from the various departments; Competence and Independence • conducted document reviews, data sampling and interrogation of supporting databases and associated DNV GL applies its own management standards and compliance policies for quality control, in accordance with ISO/IEC reporting system as they relate to selected content and performance data; 17021:2011 Conformity Assessment Requirements for bodies providing audit and certification of management systems, and • reviewed the materiality assessment report. accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control, including documented policies and procedures regarding 1) The VeriSustain protocol is available upon request at DNV GL Website (www.dnvgl.com) compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. We have complied with the DNV GL Code of Conduct2) during the assurance engagement and maintain independence where required by Limitations relevant ethical requirements. This engagement work was carried out by an independent team of sustainability assurance proThe engagement excludes the sustainability management, performance and reporting practices of Doosan’ subfessionals. DNV GL was not involved in the preparation of statements or data included in the Report except for this Assurance sidiaries, associated companies, suppliers, contractors and any third-parties mentioned in the Report. DNV GL Statement. DNV GL maintains complete impartiality toward stakeholders interviewed during the assurance process. DNV GL did not interview external stakeholders as part of this Assurance Engagement. Economic performance based on have no other contract with Doosan and did not provide any services to Doosan in 2019 that could compromise the indepenthe financial data is cross-checked with internal documents, the audited consolidated financial statements and dence or impartiality of our work. the announcement disclosed at the website of Korea Financial Supervisory Service (http://dart.fss.or.kr) as well as Doosan’s website(www.doosan.com). These documents, financial statements and the announcements are 2) DNV GL Code of Conduct is available from DNV GL website (www.dnvgl.com) not included in this Assurance Engagement. Limited depth of evidence gathering including inquiry and analytical procedures and limited sampling at lower levels in the organization were applied. The baseline data for EnvironJang Sup Lee mental and Social performance are not verified, while the aggregated data at the corporate level are used for the verification. DNV GL expressly disclaims any liability or co-responsibility for any decision a person or an entity July 2019 Country Representative may make based on this Assurance Statement. Seoul, Korea DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd. 102 103 Introduction Doosan Group Design the Future Spark the Growth Greenhouse Gas Verification Statement Introduction Business & Impacts Design the Future Spark the Growth CSR Management Business >CSR Strategy& Impacts and Key Activities · Transparency of Governance·Stakeholder CSR Management Engagement · Interview with Experts Appendix · Risk Management Economic PerformanceManagement·Fair Trade · Anti-corruption·Ethical BUILDING · Environmental Performance Research and Development · Social Performance Customer Satisfaction·Quality Management · Materiality Test Talent Management Scope of verification · Principles Environment of and Charitable Contribution and Safety Management YOUR Sponsorship · Supply Chain Management The scope of verification covers all greenhouse gas emission facilities under the operational control of ·· Human Rights Policy Social Contribution Doosan Corporation. · GRI Index Appendix · Membership & Awards TOMORROW · Independent Assurance Statement Verification Standards > Greenhouse Gas Verification Statement The verification was performed based on the Administrative Guidelines for the Greenhouse Gas Target Management System (Ministry of Environment Notice No. 2016-255), and Guidelines Reporting and Certification of Volume of Emissions under the National Greenhouse Gas Inventories System (Ministry of Environment Notice No. 2014-154). TODAY Verification Procedure The verification was planned and performed according to the procedure set forth under the Administrative Guidelines for the Greenhouse Gas and Energy Target Management System. In particular, the verification was performed at a reasonable level of assurance. It was also confirmed through internal review that the procedure was effectively performed throughout the entire verification processes. Limits of Verification The verification implies inherent limits that may occur in the process of applying the standards and methods. Verification Opinion The conclusions below are presented with regard to the data concerning volumes of greenhouse gases emitted and energy used as indicated in the statement. 1) Doosan Corporation prepared its 2018 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Statement based on the Administrative TF Members of this Report Guidelines for the Greenhouse Gas Target Management System. 2) The materiality test of Doosan Corporation’s greenhouse gas emissions and energy consumption Description Name of Business Group volumes for 2018 revealed that they satisfy the criteria for 5% or less based on their volume as the company emits less than 500,000 tCO2_eq. ElectroManagement Strategy Team, HR Team, Labor Relation Team, Strategy Purchas Team, EHS Team, Quality Planning Team, 3) Therefore, we hereby present an unqualified opinion on the Doosan Corporation’s greenhouse gas Materials Business Management Team, Technology Planning Team, GFC Team emissions and energy consumption volumes for 2018. Industrial Business Strategy Team, HR Team, Technical HR Team, Purchas 1 Team, EHS Team, Production Technology Innovation Vehicle Team, Quality Management Team, Domestic Sales Team, Research Strategy Team, Management Team Serial Number of Korea Foundation for Quality I1100120040 Mottrol Management Strategy Team, HR Team, Technical HR Team, Purchase Team, EHS Team, Organic Quality Team, R & D 1 Team, Organic Division Sales Marketing Team 30 March 2019 Retail Management Team, HR Team, Management Support Team, EHS part, Sales Team Korea Foundation for Quality, Inc Byeongtaek Yu Representative Fuel Cell Management Team, Management Support Team, HR Team, Purchase Team, EHS Team, Quality Team, Management Strategy Team, Sales Team, RD & E Team Volume of greenhouse gas emissions of Doosan Corporation Bio HR Team, Technical HR Team, Management Team, EHS Team, QA Team, Sales Team 1, Product Development Team, Unit: tCO2e Management Strategy Team Scope (Based on the Definitions under the Administrative Guidelines for the Greenhouse Gas 2018 DDI Strategy Team, HR Team, Purchase Team, Quality Innovation Team Target Management System) Volume of directly emitted greenhouse gases (Scope 1) 23,279 CC HR Credo Part, Management Strategy 2 Team, Business Opportunity Team, HRM Team, HRD Team, EHS Team, Technology Strategy Team, Compliance Team, Communication Team, Shared Growth Team Volume of directly emitted greenhouse gases (Scope 2) 59,894 Management Financial Accounting Team, IR Team, Management Support Team, Finance Team, HR Team Total volume of greenhouse gas emissions 83,162 Headquarter The data above correspond to the CO2 converted tonnage value based on the Corporation’s domestic worksites. Holding Legal Affairs Office, HRM Personnel Support Team, Communication Office Company 104 105
