DIETSMANN CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 www.dietsmann.com SMART MAINTENANCE SOLUTIONS FOR CONTINUOUS PRODUCTION PLANT DIETSMANN CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 TABLE OF CONTENTS Introduction from the ceo 6 Company profile 7 I Ethics and compliance 10 Ethics, bribery & corruption 10 Systems and practices for reporting violations 10 Compliance function 11 Risk assessment/ risk matrix for identified business opportunities 11 Working with contractors and suppliers 12 Responsible practices among contractors and suppliers  12 Promoting financial transparency 12 General data protection regulation (“gdpr”) 13 Human rights 13 Non-discrimination 14 Forced labor and child labor 14 Unions / collective bargaining / social  14 II Human resources 15 General policy 15 Recruitment 16 Training and development 17 Training customized to clients’ operational needs 18 Competence improvement  19 Knowledge sharing  19 Atex training 20 Training evaluation 21 Promoting employees’ career development 22 Icms campaign employees’ appraisal 23 Valorization of diversity 24 Gender equity 24 Generation equity 25 Nationalization plan 25 4 III Social and community 27 Local content 27 Local purchases 27 Local training and employment 27 Managing social impact 29 Donations and partnerships 30 IV Health, Safety, Security, Environment and Quality 32 Hseq are dietsmann’s core values 32 Health 33 Medical check-ups 33 Health and wellbeing 34 Prevention of mosquito-borne diseases 34 Mosquito borne diseases within dietsmann countries: 35 Promoting healthy way of life 35 Travel health 35 Safety  36 Managing safety  36 Safety culture program 37 First aid training 38 Security 39 Emergency preparedness and response 39 Environment 40 General environmental policy 40 Managing dietsmann’s footprint 40 Pollution and waste management 41 Sustainable use of resources 41 Targets for 2019 42 Quality 43 Corporate social responsibility overview table 44 5 INTRODUCTION FROM THE CEO Conducting business in a socially, environmentally and economically responsible manner has always been a priority for Dietsmann. I am convinced that this has contributed greatly towards the Company’s reputation and solidity. Being, as a result of this, financially healthy and wellpositioned in its field has helped create a firm basis for staying focused and continuing to invest in socially responsible conduct in all of its activities. I am, therefore, proud to present the Dietsmann 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report, our 7th report since becoming a signatory to the UNGC in 2011. Dietsmann is the world’s largest independent Operation & Maintenance specialist for continuous-production plant in the oil & gas, conventional & nuclear power generation and mining industries. And it is determined to further lead the way through innovations in the way maintenance not only improves clients’ short and long-term financial results, but also increases the life time and reduces the environmental impact of their assets, improves the well-being of workers in the industry and benefits local communities. Smart maintenance is a precondition for sustainable energy production. While putting its clients and their objectives first, Dietsmann will never compromise the safety of people and the environment or the quality of its services. The Company reflects its corporate culture in all its activities, which means respecting the ethics values of integrity, respect, loyalty, efficiency and transparency. Socially, environmentally and economically responsible conduct is just as essential in Dietsmann’s existing business as it is in pursuing new opportunities. ‘People, Planet and Profit’ will always, and everywhere, be taken into full consideration. Our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) strategy defines our global approach, provides structure to our responsibilityoriented actions and integrates the United Nations Global Compact’s principles in the areas of human rights, labor rights, environment and anti-corruption. Every year reviews and improvements are implemented into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. This report provides a broad insight in how this is done and to what effect. It goes without saying that Dietsmann, in addition to all this, complies with the principles and best practices of good Corporate Governance (as stated in the Dutch Corporate Governance Code), ethics and anti-corruption legislation and regulations, and all applicable legislation in every country in which we operate. All these efforts combine to ensure that Dietsmann achieves the highest standards of Corporate Social Responsibility and integrates the principles of the United Nations Global Compact into both its day-to-day work and its long-term vision and strategy. 6 Dietsmann has been able to maintain its strong position in a challenging economic environment thanks to its unmatched base of satisfied clients, its vast experience and expertise and its optimum employment of local resources. In addition, because Dietsmann’s does not carry any debt on its balance sheet its stability and continuity is not challenged. All the more reason to recognise that our employees are our most important asset. They deserve full credit for ensuring the safe and optimum availability of our clients’ assets in the energy sector in very different parts of the world. I accept a personal responsibility for upholding Dietsmann’s long-term vision and strategy and supporting the wonderful efforts of all Dietsmann’s employees in all the countries in which we operate. I would like to thank them for being our ambassadors every day. Peter Kütemann President & CEO 7 8 COMPANY PROFILE n Name of the organization: Dietsmann N.V. n Dietsmann N.V., the Company’s holding company, is a privately held company with its registered office in Breda, the Netherlands. n Company size: Dietsmann has offices and operations in 20 countries and a total workforce of 5326 employees. n HSE awards received during the reporting period: n Nigeria: 12 years without LTI at Okpai site n Angola: Sonadiets has reached the milestone of 4,022,000 hours (12 years) without LTI at Esso Exploration Angola Limited Block n Libya subsidiary: 12,000,000 man-hours without LTI n Gabon subsidiary: 10,700,000 man-hours without LTI n Congo subsidiary: 5,600,000 man-hours without LTI n Congo Total contract-SAS: 3,000 days without LTI n Organizational structure: n Group Holding: Breda, the Netherlands n Global Support and Coordination Office: Monaco n Support & Coordination Office: Dubai (UEA) n Offices and operations worldwide: Angola, Bolivia, Bulgaria, Cyprus, France, Italy, Gabon, Ghana, Kazakhstan, Libya, Nigeria, Mozambique, Qatar, Russia, South Sudan, Switzerland and the Republic of Congo. n During 2018 Dietsmann finalized the integration of Energoremont Holding JSC in Bulgaria. With Energoremont, Dietsmann has not only taken control of the largest maintenance company in Bulgaria, but has also acquired access to the nuclear and conventional power and mining sectors in the Balkan Peninsula and Eastern Europe. Dietsmann sees great potential for expansion and will focus on the further development of DietsmannEnergoremont’s core activities in Bulgaria and the Balkan countries. 9 I ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE ETHICS, BRIBERY & CORRUPTION Dietsmann promotes integrity and ethical behavior in all of its actions, complies strictly with the letter of the law and also respects the spirit of the law. To ensure continued success when providing services to its clients, Dietsmann upholds the highest level of ethical business conduct in its operations. The Company‘s Business Code of Conduct serves as a guiding framework for ethical and legal business decisions. Dietsmann employees receive copies of the Company’s policies and procedures (including the Code of Conduct) and are expected to exercise sound judgment and act fairly and justly during their daily interaction with colleagues, clients, suppliers and other business associates. A training course on the Company‘s Business Code of Conduct is provided to ensure that employees are aware of Dietsmann’s policies and are kept up-to-date with any changes. During 2019: A revision of the Business Code of Conduct and training for all employees is planned SYSTEMS AND PRACTICES FOR REPORTING VIOLATIONS Dietsmann will not tolerate corruption or any other form of ethical misconduct. All employees are encouraged to report any violation of Dietsmann’s policies via a Grievance Mechanism, the “Upline e-mail”, which can be used to obtain advice and/or report any concerns related to ethical issues and deviance from the Code. The responsibility for this mechanism rests with the Ethics Committee. This tool also enables the Ethics Committee to identify and analyze recurring issues and implement appropriate preventive actions. It is of the highest importance to Dietsmann that employees seek guidance if they are unsure about the right way to act in a business situation and that they are willing to report concerns about suspected unethical behavior. An employee who does not feel comfortable about something he/she is asked to do, or who witnesses something that seems irregular, should first check that the information he/she has is accurate. No employee has all the answers. The Company wants employees and managers to know the right questions to ask, the right experts to consult and the right way to make decisions. Dietsmann employees are told that if they are in doubt they should ask for assistance and advice: n If the issue is sensitive: from their local HR or HSEQ Manager n If the issue is very sensitive: by sending an e-mail to the upline e-mail address. E-mails can be written in the employee’s own language (they will be translated). During 2018 no communications were received via the Upline e-mail 10 I ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE COMPLIANCE FUNCTION Dietsmann’s global action framework and procedures ensure the identification of and compliance with all its internal and external obligations. To enable the implementation of even more stringent compliance and control mechanisms, in October 2012 an Ethics Committee, Chaired by the Legal & Tax Director, was formed. He has appointed representatives of the Group HR, Group Communications and Group HSEQ (Health, Safety, Social, Security, Environment and Quality) Departments as members of the Ethics Committee. In addition, to disseminate and implement a greater compliance culture, in 2017 a Compliance Department was created under the supervision of the Audit Committee of the Company’s Supervisory Board. The Compliance department meets regularly with the (Heads of) departments to ensure “Compliance” RISK ASSESSMENT/ RISK MATRIX FOR IDENTIFIED BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES The Dietsmann management’s decision to bid for or not to bid for a contract is always based on a thorough analysis of a project’s risk profile. Risk assessment follows a step-by-step procedure to identify risks in the following areas: Technical, Resources, H&S, Commercial, Contractual, Financial, Compliance. A Risk Assessment Form is: n Drawn-up for each tender; n Completed by the Heads of relevant departments; n Validated by the Compliance Officer. Dietsmann will only pursue projects that can be executed without violating its Business Code of Conduct & Ethics Policy 11 I ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE WORKING WITH CONTRACTORS AND SUPPLIERS RESPONSIBLE PRACTICES AMONG CONTRACTORS AND SUPPLIERS Doing business with Dietsmann’s suppliers in an honest and fair manner means that employees responsible for buying or leasing materials and services on behalf of the Company must do so objectively. Dietsmann opts to deal with its suppliers on the basis of the price, quality and desirability of their goods and services. To further develop the supply chain Dietsmann works with local suppliers whenever possible. Employees must not accept or seek any benefit from suppliers or potential suppliers that would compromise their judgment or create the appearance that their judgment could be compromised. In addition, it is against Company policy to prohibit suppliers from trading with Dietsmann’s competitors in order to continue or expand their relationship with us. In all its dealings with suppliers Dietsmann encourages ethical business conduct throughout its supply chain. All contractors and suppliers must endorse and adhere to the Dietsmann’ Code of Conduct; the Code aims to enforce responsible business conduct in areas such as the provision of a safe and healthy working environment, fair employment practices and environmentally-responsible business practices. It also serves as a guideline for suppliers when dealing with potential ethical risks and establishes an avenue through which unethical business conduct can be reported should the need arise. In some instances contractors that do not meet Dietsmann’s requirements, or are unable to demonstrate improved performance, are dismissed. Dietsmann is committed not only to applying the UNGC principles at all its operating sites but also to striving to assess its business partners’ compliance with these principles and encouraging them to implement good practices. A procedure is available and provides all subsidiaries with an evaluation form for current and potential main suppliers or sub-contractors. PROMOTING FINANCIAL TRANSPARENCY Dietsmann’s books and records must present the result of the Company’s operations and its financial condition accurately and fairly. An Internal Auditor and two Compliance Controllers have been appointed to monitor the accounting process. 12 I ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE In accordance with its Articles of Association, Dietsmann has appointed an External Auditor who plays an important role in ensuring the integrity of Dietsmann’s financial reporting, as well as the validity and reliability of reported financial information. In addition, Dietsmann’s Supervisory Board has appointed an Audit Committee from among its members. This Committee, in close cooperation with the Company’s management, endeavors to ensure that a high standard of quality, transparency and control is achieved and maintained. Dietsmann has never been subject to any statutory notice of prosecution GENERAL DATA PROTECTION REGULATION (“GDPR”) On 25 May 2018 the EU General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”) came into force across the European Union and brought with it significant changes to data protection legislation. The GDPR has been designed to meet the requirements of the digital age. Dietsmann has always been committed to ensuring the security and protection of the personal information it processes and to providing a compliant and consistent approach to data protection. Dietsmann recognizes the importance of updating and expanding its policies to meet the demands of the GDPR and applicable laws and regulations. Under the supervision of the Legal and Compliance departments, during 2018 considerable time, effort and attention was dedicated to safeguarding the personal information held by the Company and developing a data protection regime that is effective, fit for purpose and demonstrates an understanding and appreciation of the new Regulation. This included the development and implementation of new data protection roles, policies, procedures, controls and measures to ensure maximum and ongoing compliance. HUMAN RIGHTS Dietsmann respects the labor rights stated in the International Labor Organization’s Declaration as well as all relevant legislation and regulations, including the local content of the countries in which it operates. Dietsmann expects its business partners to do the same. As stated in its Business Code of Conduct & Ethics Policy, Dietsmann: n Respects freedom of association and supports collective bargaining n Does not tolerate forced or child labor and discrimination n Has always been committed to maintaining the highest level of HSEQ standards n  Values the personal development of its employees and focuses on dynamic career management, supports internal promotion, invests in training and strives to take employees’ expectations into account 13 I ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE NON-DISCRIMINATION Dietsmann’s non-discrimination principle includes any explicit or implicit distinction, exclusion or preference based on color, gender, religion, political opinion, national extraction, sexual orientation or social origin, which has the effect of nullifying or spoiling equality of opportunity or treatment in employment or occupation, including access to vocational training. Dietsmann’s recruitment criteria are based solely on skills and are not related to ethnic or religious origins, age, gender or any other form of discrimination. FORCED LABOR AND CHILD LABOR Dietsmann does not promote, practice or tolerate the use or forced or compulsory labor, human trafficking or the sale of sexual acts of any kind. The Company’s policies and practices reflect this position. Dietsmann projects and offices worldwide are subject to laws and regulations prohibiting the hiring of underage employees. UNIONS / COLLECTIVE BARGAINING / SOCIAL The Company endorses collective bargaining: employee representatives are active at all operating sites and are also provided with the necessary meeting facilities and appropriate time off duty to organize work sessions with the managers concerned. An open dialog between employees and managers is promoted at all Dietsmann sites. In Monaco a dedicated anonymous e-mail allows employees to send any question they may have to the employees representatives. In Nigeria a binding document the Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA) has been signed by both the management and the Labor Union (employee representatives). Management and Union representatives maintain a cordial relationship, this ensures that whenever issues arise regarding staff welfare they are resolved amicably. In Russia a Feedback Form Box project, which allowed operating staff to share their views and concerns directly with Dietsmann Russia’s management, was introduced during 2017. To date the management has received, and duly responded to, more than 50 feedback forms. There is no doubt that this new communication channel has contributed towards the increased loyalty of the employees and the transparency of business processes. 14 II HUMAN RESOURCES GENERAL POLICY The Company’s Human Resources activities are organized in the same way in the subsidiaries, the Global Support & Coordination Office in Monaco and the Support & Coordination Office in Dubai. To enable the best quality of service to be provided in each country in which we operate, the Administrative Service handles all the administration while the Development Service deals with all the activities that contribute towards the improvement and performance of the employees (Career Management, Recruitment and Training). The Human Resources challenges are: n To consistently ensure the well-being of employees and compliance with labor rights, human rights principles and the Company’s core values. n To provide projects with staff with the appropriate skills and nationalities to meet the requirements in this challenging economic situation (the Company’s recruitment network is constantly being expanded). n To handle the administrative aspects (personnel administration, payroll, insurance and logistics) using increasingly simple and efficient HR tools. n To improve Dietsmann’s human capital through optimized career management, recruitment and training. In line with Dietsmann’s general policy of promoting and maximizing local skills, the expertise of the Human Resources Administrative Service in the subsidiaries is continuously increasing thanks to a further transfer of know-how and expertise to the local staff. As far as the Development Service is concerned, career management is being improved through: n Efficient mobility management: the mobility plans are drawn up on the basis of the annual assessments and the nationalization plans. n Talent identification and skills improvement: the development of an extensive and effective library of courses covering not only technical skills but also the managerial skills needed at different levels within the Company. The Group Human Resources department works hard to remain connected at a grass-roots level and to answer the practical needs of the Company’s subsidiaries. HR tools and the practices have to be adapted to the real needs, and for this reason there must be close contact between all the HR departments. 15 II HUMAN RESOURCES RECRUITMENT Dietsmann pays considerable attention to its recruitment procedures and day-to-day human resources management (wages, career management, access to training) and does not tolerate any kind of discrimination whether based on color, gender, religion, political opinion, national extraction, sexual orientation or social origin. Recruitment must be constantly improved and adapted to meet changing requirements. In 2018 the improvements focused on internal client satisfaction and the relationship with expatriate employees. To achieve these goals a number of measures were introduced: n In the subsidiaries (Republic of Congo, Gabon, Nigeria, Angola) a quarterly meeting, by video conference, to discuss ongoing recruitment activities, nationalization, client decisions, job opportunities and any issues. In 2019 this type of video conference will be organized in more countries. n With regard to expatriate employees, measures to improve the selection of the candidates and to follow them during their integration phase have been implemented. Two documents have been introduced to assess the improvement after three months: n A “Probatory Period Evaluation” form: after the employee has completed three months of work this form is sent to the employee’s Manager for evaluation; n “Feedback from the employee”: after three months a form for evaluating the recruitment process, position, site and subsidiaryis sent to and completed by the employee. The information collected should help indicate ways to improve. In 2019 the aim is to introduce some video conference meetings with expatriate employees. Initially conferences will be organized with expatriates working on TOTAL contracts in Nigeria, Gabon, Republic of Congo and Angola. The purpose of the conferences is to maintain relationships between HR Monaco and Dietsmann’s expatriate employees. 16 II HUMAN RESOURCES TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT The shared mission of all the Company’s Training Departments is to develop individual and collective capability in order to improve the performance of Dietsmann’s employees and teams. Towards this end all the training departments in the Dietsmann Group are involved and common management tools are used. The specifics of each subsidiary and each adjustment made will be taken into account. INVESTING IN TRAINING One of Dietsmann’s objectives is to provide its national and expatriate employees with career opportunities and training programs. Towards this end the Human Resources department has developed two successful tools: KMP and the Competencies Certification Program. The management and coordination of training courses and course participation are supported by the Employee Data Base (EDB) Dietsmann’s in-house HR management software which includes a training module. The aim of this module is to assist Training Managers throughout the Company by automating many tasks, such as training plan editing, training request management and training processing and reporting. TRAINING COURSE PARTICIPATION 2016 2018 3,500 3,000 2,500 2,000 1,500 1,000 500 0 Angola Bolivia Rep. of Congo France Gabon Kazakhstan Libya Nigeria Russia SCO/Monaco 2016 2017 2018 The investment in training remained at a high level with 14, 437 training days in 2018 (2017: 12,357 training days). The opportunity to follow training courses appropriate to their specific job needs or projected career path is available to all employees. 17 II HUMAN RESOURCES One very important aim of training is to improve the Company’s human capital. HSE training is an important module of the training followed as it maintains an employee’s capacity to gain the accreditation necessary to work on site. Dietsmann training courses cover technical training, management training, and language training. FIELDS OF TRAINING HSEQ 62% Technical 22% Languages 5% Management 4% Other* 7% *Administration, Data processing/IT, Various The focus is on transferring know-how and enhancing national employees’ skills. KNOWLEDGE SHARING In order to ensure the continuous development of employees’ competence and thus increase the mobility of the Company’s human resources, Dietsmann Qualification College (DQC) has a training center focused on the qualification process of Dietsmann employees from any of the subsidiaries. The objectives are to: n Provide training services to its subsidiaries’ employees n Work closely with Dietsmann affiliates and trainers with platform experience n Qualify Dietsmann’s technicians for specific operations, such as regular visits, controls, adjustments and tests 18 II HUMAN RESOURCES TRAINING CUSTOMIZED TO CLIENTS’ OPERATIONAL NEEDS The Dietsmann Qualification College, with its extensive experience in mechanical engineering, electrical engineering, instrumentation, HVAC and Maintenance Engineering as well as regulatory technical training (electrical qualifications, ATEX), is the expert in field maintenance. Qualification courses and programs are customized to answer clients’ needs. Even if trainees have no previous experience the College will take them all the way through from an initiation course to the required qualification. The College can also offer an All-In training program package that incorporates and encompasses all clients’ specific requirements. Dietsmann is continuing to develop its internal training center and training certifications. As of January 2019 the Dietsmann Qualification Center will offer a new certification: Electrical power on battery units B1T/B2T. This new certification will contribute towards expanding the offer of internal training courses at the DQC and with Technical Assessment & Campaign Training (TACT). The objective is for internal training courses to represent 15% of the total training courses. COMPETENCE IMPROVEMENT Integrated Career ■ Professional behavior appraisal Local employees ICMS Management System ■ Identify training need and expected career path Technical Assessment ■ 3 years of training concluded by a ★ ★ TACT & Campaing Training knowledge & know-how assessment ★ ★ TB KMP Nationalization ■ To select candidates and follow-up NA NaTB Tool Box improvements in their competence on TA O ★ fic ati E Training and technical C rti Technical Assesment TA Ce ★ ■ TAOE On Event assessment for new equipment IC T MS ★ ★ Key Manager ■ Management knowledge KMP Path ■ Dietsmann specific knowledge Expatriates T ICMS ICMS A ICMS ICMS ICMS O Mobilization YEAR 1 2 E 3 4 5 YEAR 6 TACT TACT NaTB KMP Junior Senior Supervisor CSR Coordinator NaTB NaTB 19 II HUMAN RESOURCES NUMBER OF TRAINEES 80 60 40 2015 20 2016 2017 0 2018 Reciprocating Electrical training HVAC training Instrum. Training Management Mechanical ATEX Electrical training certification certification compressors TRAINING COURSES COMPLETED 80 60 40 2015 20 2016 2017 0 2018 Reciprocating Electrical training HVAC training Instrum. Training Management Mechanical ATEX Electrical training certification certification compressors ATEX Training The Dietsmann Qualification College conducted a worldwide census campaign to evaluate the possibility of reinforcing the College training team and to benchmark the potential for developing new training courses. Around 12 technicians were selected to be added to the Dietsmann Qualification College trainer team on the basis of their availability (rotation offshore/onshore), discipline expertise, skills and home address. This action is the result of Dietsmann’s policy of transferring know-how to internal employees so they can develop and improve their knowledge. 20 II HUMAN RESOURCES Dietsmann’s Angolan joint venture, Sonadiets, runs a training center dedicated to potential future employees. Courses are in line with clients’ requirements. Around 30% of the courses are theoretical and 70% are practical workshops in real working conditions. In 2018 the training center provided 11, 230 hours of training. TRAINING EVALUATION One of the objectives is for all employee training requests to be answered with an appropriate package of training modules proposed. Dietsmann has implemented two types of evaluation to measure the adequacy of the response to training requests. When the modules have been completed trainees complete a final on the spot evaluation. The Training Department analyses the evaluation data on the basis of four topics: n Organization n Content of training program n Trainer animation n Pertinence SPOT EVALUATION 100% 80% 60% Organization 40% Content of training program 20% Trainer animation 0% Pertinence H.S.E. Languages Management General technical 21 II HUMAN RESOURCES During the yearly interview campaign, a second evaluation of the pertinence of training is made by the trainee and the manager. This delayed evaluation enables two questions to be answered: n Is the employee satisfied with the training courses he/she followed last year? n Is the employee’s Line Manager satisfied with the training courses the employee followed last year? YEARLY COMPARISON EMPLOYEE TRAINING SATISFACTION This evaluation is based on the comments during the campaign ICMS. Is the employee satisfied with the training Is the Line Manager satisfied with the training courses he/she followed last year? courses the employee followed last year? The opinion of the employees who haven’t been interviewed The Line Manager’s opinion in respect of the employees who cannot be taken into account. haven’t been interviewed cannot be taken into account. 100% 100% 80% 80% 60% 60% 40% 40% 20% 20% 0% 0% 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 Not suited No evolution in the job Partially suited to the job Partial evolution in the job Suited to the job Significant evolution PROMOTING EMPLOYEES’ CAREER DEVELOPMENT Dietsmann operates an annual review process for employees: the number of scheduled interviews is increasing each year. The process identifies the employee’s personal development needs and training requirements for his/her current job position and expected career path. 22 II HUMAN RESOURCES ICMS CAMPAIGN EMPLOYEES’ APPRAISAL 3043 employees were interviewed during Workforce the 2018 campaign, which from August Interviews realized 2,658 2018 to the beginning of November 2018. 385 Expatriate National Country of Workforce Total No. of No. of Realized vs Realized vs Work 30/07/2018 interviews interviews forecast workforce forecast realized Angola 434 226 185 82% 43% Bolivia 50 44 39 89% 78% Rep. of Congo 779 318 286 90% 37% France 145 142 129 91% 89% Gabon 333 241 224 93% 67% Kazakhstan 135 106 104 98% 77% Libya 399 350 306 87% 77% Monaco 105 113 75 66% 71% Nigeria 319 318 195 61% 61% Ghana 71 2 2 100% 3% Russia 1,679 1,509 1,498 99% 89% Irak 61 0 0 0% Grand Total 4,510 3,369 3,043 90% 67% 2018: 67% of employees 2018: 90% of the scheduled were interviewed interviews were conducted 23 II HUMAN RESOURCES VALORIZATION OF DIVERSITY Whenever possible the Company promotes national employment. As a result, the Company is continuously increasing the diversity of its employees. A total of 50 different nationalities were represented in 2018. Dietsmann is present in 20 countries and in every one of these countries it recruits employees by publishing vacancies worldwide on its website. The diversity of Dietsmann’s workforce reflects its rejection of any form of discrimination. EMPLOYEE Iraqi 0.34% Russian 30.02% NATIONALITIES Algerian 0.43% Filipino 0.96% DECEMBER Romanian 1.50% Tunisian 0.98% 2018 Italian 2.12% Serbian 0.47% Gabonese 5.43% French 8.00% South Sudanese 0.69% Libyan 2.74% Kazakh 1.82% Nigerian 5.18% South African 0.51% Bolivian 0.86% Angolan 5.90% Indian 0.88% Other 2.99% Bulgarian 17.14% Congolese 14.04% GENDER EQUITY The specific nature of working on-site in extreme environments has to be taken into account as it requires a robust constitution and quite often involves a rotating work schedule, which is not convenient for everyone. Office positions obviously do not involve the same constraints as operational positions and the gender ratio is significant for these positions: women represent 50% of employees working in office positions. 24 II HUMAN RESOURCES GENERATION EQUITY The breakdown of employees by age is well balanced: the average age is 42. The percentage of young (under the age of 35) employees is 24%. This high percentage highlights Dietsmann’s ambition to recruit and give opportunities to young talent. At the other end of the age spectrum, 15% of employees are over 55 years old. This is a quite significant percentage and it should be noted that 91 employees have worked for Dietsmann for more than 25 years. BREAKDOWN BY AGE GROUP BREAKDOWN BY YEARS OF SERVICE 70+ 35-45 Expatriate 60-69 National 30-34 50-59 40-49 20-29 30-39 10-19 20-29 0-9 -20 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 NATIONALIZATION PLAN Dietsmann strives for maximum local employment at every level of its organization. This benefits the economy and local communities in the countries in which it operates. Nationalization is, however, one of Dietsmann’s greatest HR challenges because the success of nationalization plans depends on a whole range of parameters, such as the level of education of the local staff, the quality of the local training centers and the mix of specific Human Resources skills required to manage this kind of project. Generally the nationalization of a position involves a substantial financial investment. 25 II HUMAN RESOURCES To support the implementation of an increasing number of nationalization plans and to make these plans more successful, Dietsmann has developed a Nationalization Tool Box (NaTB). This tool box comprises a set of training courses, tests and support material that enables the local HR department to formulate and implement a nationalization plan fitted and adapted to the specific local situation. The NaTB recommends a step-by-step nationalization process and includes support materials, such as technical, reasoning and psychological tests, general, technical and management training course support and cost evaluation software for each step as well as all the additional information that will enable the Country HR Manager to set up and implement a training plan. The NaTB has been used successfully by several subsidiaries and has resulted in efficient nationalization plans. Globally, in 2018 the nationalization process resulted in 9 positions previously held by expatriates being nationalized. The nationalization of expatriate positions is a priority in terms of career management. Typically, over 97% of administrative staff positions and 67% of management positions are filled by nationals of the countries in which Dietsmann operates. The Company remains focused on increasing the proportion of nationals employed in all categories. Dietsmann’s HR policy is reflected in the proportion of national employees across the Company overall, which is now 87%. Rate of employees by category position EMPLOYEE PROFILE TOTAL Hierarchical levels Expatriate National All % Top Management 21 124 145 4% Middle Management 69 64 133 6% Operational 576 4,074 4,650 81% Administrative 10 388 398 9% Grand Total 676 4,650 5,326 100% 26 III SOCIAL AND COMMUNITY LOCAL CONTENT The term ‘local content’ describes the positive effects a foreign company or industry can have on the areas in which it operates. Companies can provide measurable benefits by: n Buying supplies and services locally n Employing and training local people n Supporting development Community development support includes social investment programs involving companies making voluntary contributions towards the positive development of the communities and societies in the region and/or country in which they are operating. Such programs typically donate to, or develop skills and resources in, local communities and local or national institutions. The assessment of Dietsmann’s level of performance in terms of local content is divided into three related sub-sections: Local purchases Dietsmann’s policy is to maximize purchasing from local suppliers and to help these suppliers achieve the required performance standards. As a result, in most of the countries in which it operates Dietsmann exceeds local regulations related to local purchase. In countries in which high technology equipment is not manufactured locally the required equipment is purchased through Dietsmann’s French procurement department. Local training and employment In line with Dietsmann’s sustainability project development axis, the Company’s local community initiatives focus on knowledge sharing. The indicators include the efforts dedicated to building and equipping Dietsmann’s own training centers as these centers are long-lasting infrastructure. The partnerships with technical schools, schools and universities reflect the Company’s involvement in supporting the future of local communities. In 2018, NetcoDietsmann Company Limited embarked on a number of initiatives geared towards improving the welfare and working conditions of its employees. In line with the provisions of the Nigerian oil and gas Industry Content Development Act 2010 (NOGICD), NetcoDietsmann focused on: n Developing Indigenous Skills across the oil and gas value chain n Creating customized training and sustainable employment opportunities in Nigeria. 27 III SOCIAL AND COMMUNITY NETCO Trainees, the Training Coordinator and the former Executive Director, Operations at Afam VI power plant The past year was remarkable as considerable resources were ploughed into developing the human capital of the indigenous staff across Dietsmann’s various business interests. One of the investments was the just concluded training of nine (9) Netco trainees. The aim of the training was to provide the necessary skills they require to become valuable professionals in the Nigerian power sector. Trainees had the opportunity to work on a Power Plant under the tutelage of some of the most experienced professionals in the sector. In addition, the Nigerian Content and Monitoring Board (NCDMB) nominated 10 trainees to follow a oneyear training course with NetcoDietsmann. The trainees were drawn from various parts of the country and were trained in the following areas: n 4 in Electrical Engineering n 2 in Mechanical Engineering n 4 in Instrumentation The trainees had a 3-month intensive stay at the Egbin Power Station for their On-The-Job training (OJT). All the trainees were paid a statutory stipend of N120, 000 plus other allowances to cover transportation and sustenance Trainees during costs. their On-The-Job Training (OJT) at Another indicator sums up the total amount dedicated to the socio-economic Egbin Power Station development of local communities. 28 III SOCIAL AND COMMUNITY Dietsmann believes that investing in local content could also mitigate some of the risks of doing business in foreign countries by creating healthy and sustainable relations with local communities. In Nigeria, NetcoDietsmann continues to be a major employer of Nigerian labor and more than fulfills the Local Content requirements for indigenous participation. Currently the Company employs over 300 local employees in its various projects (representing more than 90% of the total staff). Most of the staff are recruited from communities that are local to the projects. Community development initiatives In Russia, all the Company’s branches interact with the military draft offices, pension funds, municipal administrations, Ministry of Education and Ministry of Energy. Every year on Power Engineer’s Day distinguished employees from the branches traditionally receive awards from the Russian Ministry of Energy, including certificates of professional recognition and commendation and titles of honor. The Company participates in various local contests and Victory Day at the Nevinnomysski branch events ranging from parades to relay races and often wins prizes! Employees of Dietsmann Russia takes an active part in the social life of the towns in which it has a presence. Dietsmann always encourages its employees to get involved in voluntary activities and the best volunteers are awarded prizes. Managing social impact To strengthen corporate cohesion and promote a good working atmosphere, events that bring employees together are organized in all Dietsmann Reftinsky branch countries. The end of year is a regular opportunity for such get-togethers. participated in Some special events and team-building events are also organized during the Parade of the year. Enterprises in the village of Reftinsky 29 III SOCIAL AND COMMUNITY DONATIONS AND PARTNERSHIPS In Angola, SONADIETS, as part of its Subsidiary Social Responsibility and Commitments, launched a Malaria Awareness Campaign with the theme “Defeat Malaria”. This initiative shows the Subsidiary’s strong commitment to local communities and is in line with the National Malaria Strategic Plan. During 2018 the SONADIETS Subsidiary launched the Malaria Awareness Campaign in two primary schools in the most populous townships in one of the areas most affected by Malaria due to the huge multiplication of Mosquitos. At the end of the presentation a Malaria ABCD brochure was given to all the attending children and parents and explained. All the attendees also received nets and were instructed in how to use them. Malaria awareness campaign in El Shaddai School in Luanda In 2018 NetcoDietsmann in Nigeria consolidated its efforts to support capacity-building initiatives in host communities. The Company also supported various infrastructural development programs as well as charitable causes. One example of this support is the sponsorship of the Oak Orientation Initiative’s medical outreach programs that provide free medical care to the less privileged. In Monaco Dietsmann has a long-standing involvement in the activities of local and neighboring municipalities, mainly through sponsoring or contributions to local organizations dedicated to children, such as Les Enfants de Frankie and The Children & Future Association. 30 III SOCIAL AND COMMUNITY Dietsmann, as a dynamic and responsible citizen of Monaco, has undertaken to support the Monaco Impact Association which promotes Monaco as a world centre of philanthropy and social impact investment. The Association’s aim is to connect committed global citizens, local philanthropists and investors, through collaboration, education, and opportunities in order to support the next generation of “Responsible Entrepreneurs – Social Entrepreneurs”. Dietsmann is the legacy sponsor of the Delft Technical University Mineralogical and Geological Museum (MGM) with a pledge of sponsorship for 10 years. The €50,000 sponsorship per year has enabled the core of the collection to continue to be displayed. 31 IV HEALTH, SAFETY, SECURITY, ENVIRONMENT AND QUALITY Nothing is more important to Dietsmann than the health, safety and security of its workforce and the communities in which it works. Towards this end the Company remains vigilant and always does its utmost to respect and protect the environment. Dietsmann’s top management has decided to cluster Health, Safety, Security, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), Environment and Quality together into a single department HSEQ (Health, Safety, Social, Security, Environment and Quality). This clustering will enable the Company’s management systems to be managed more effectively and will bring Dietsmann’s organization more in line with the organizations of its clients and main competitors. Working in a safe and environmentally sound manner is fundamental to Dietsmann’s long-term success. The successful execution of complex projects requires a healthy and safe workforce of employees plus subcontractors’ and suppliers’ personnel. Effective management of environmental issues, including energy use, emissions, waste and transportation impact contributes towards the long-term success of Dietsmann and its clients. HSEQ are Dietsmann’s core values Dietsmann’s corporate culture, supported by the HSEQ management system, makes HSEQ a core value for its employees and its stakeholders. The HSEQ management system provides the framework for how the different aspects of HSEQ are addressed in Dietsmann’s offices and workshops throughout the duration of projects. This framework begins with Dietsmann’s philosophy and continues with the commitment detailed in its charters and policies and cascades down to its corporate rules, practices and subsidiary-specific procedures and plans. Dietsmann’s culture is based on the firm belief that health, safety, security, social, environment and quality requirements should come before all economic considerations and takes a proactive approach to guaranteeing a safe, healthy working environment and the best service quality. This includes ensuring that every employee understands and adheres to the corporate culture through dedicated health, safety, environment and quality training and by doing everything possible to reduce any negative impact of its operations on the environment. All Dietsmann employees at every level in the hierarchy accept responsibility for their own behavior in respect of the application of the Company’s Health, Safety, Environment & Quality Charter at their workplace. 32 IV HEALTH, SAFETY, SECURITY, ENVIRONMENT AND QUALITY Dietsmann is committed to providing a healthy, safe and secure working environment for all its employees and to ensuring that its activities are carried out with the utmost respect for the environment. Client Satisfaction: a daily challenge Dietsmann strives to ensure excellent service in order to satisfy its clients’ every day. Satisfying clients creates opportunities to maintain the Company’s activities and remain involved in the country. HEALTH MEDICAL CHECK-UPS All employees are covered by medical insurance and throughout the year information campaigns increase employees’ awareness of specific health issues. Despite the challenging economic situation, in 2018 Dietsmann maintained the level of coverage for its local employees and their families. In addition to safety and security, employees’ good health is also a major concern for Dietsmann. This is why regular medical check-ups are provided to employees. In 2018, 88% of employees benefited from a medical check-up (2017: 83%). The check-ups are carried out every one or two years depending on the local context and the individual context (the employee’s age and type of work). RATE OF MEDICAL VISITS IN 2018 (IN MAIN COUNTRIES OF OPERATION) 100% 80% 60% 40% 20% 0% Angola Bolivia Bulgaria Rep. of Congo France Gabon Italy Kazakhstan Libya Monaco Nigeria Other Russia South Sudan 33 IV HEALTH, SAFETY, SECURITY, ENVIRONMENT AND QUALITY Additional processes to prevent health incidents are implemented in subsidiaries. Senior employees can, on a voluntary basis, follow an Occupational Health & Safety (OHS) training course during which qualified HSEQ managers provide first aid instruction. HEALTH AND WELLBEING Dietsmann’s commitment to the health and well-being of its employees means that the Company also focuses on preventing sickness by nurturing wellness and by providing the right environment for a healthy lifestyle. Dietsmann aims to manage occupational risks and reduce exposure to hazardous substances. The Company’s health program takes global concerns, such as the possibility of an influenza pandemic or a disease like Ebola, into account. PREVENTION OF MOSQUITO-BORNE DISEASES Dietsmann is active in Africa, Middle East, South America, Central Asia & Asia and Europa. Depending on the country in which they are working and/or living, Dietsmann employees may be exposed to mosquitoborne diseases. Dietsmann is committed to looking after its employees’ health and in 2018 initiated a major campaign warning employees of the dangers of mosquito-borne diseases. During 2018 and 2019 every mosquitoborne disease present in a country in which Dietsmann is active has been/will be explained to all concerned personnel. The aim of the campaign is to give at all Dietsmann employees and their families correct information and knowledge regarding prevention and symptom recognition. 57% of employees could be affected by mosquito-borne disease 34 IV HEALTH, SAFETY, SECURITY, ENVIRONMENT AND QUALITY Mosquito borne diseases within Dietsmann countries: Country of Malaria Yellow Fever Chikun­gunya Dengue Fever Zika Leish­ Rift Valley West Nile Employment manioses Fever Virus Angola n n n n n Bolivia n n n Rep. of Congo n n n n France n Gabon n n n n n n Ghana n n n n Iraq n Kazakhstan n Libya Nigeria n n n n n n South-Sudan n n n n n n n Endemic Sporadic PROMOTING HEALTHY WAY OF LIFE In Russia employees are offered seasonal membership of gyms, skating rinks and swimming pools. Team games, like football curling and darts, and team-building events contribute towards the joint activities and collaboration within the team to reach common goals. TRAVEL HEALTH Team of skiers in relay race Traveling to, or staying in, locations with poor sanitation and increased organised by ENEL risk of exposure to harmful microorganisms clearly increases the risks related to contagious diseases and can also worsen an existing personal health problem. To reduce these risks as far as possible and avoid unnecessary health incidents while abroad, Dietsmann includes these risks in its Health Risks Assessment process. 35 IV HEALTH, SAFETY, SECURITY, ENVIRONMENT AND QUALITY SAFETY MANAGING SAFETY Dietsmann is committed to keeping people safe, whether they are working on site or living near its operations. Creating the right safety culture within the organization is important. It requires strong leadership and an active commitment to safe maintenance operations from all members of the workforce. For example, in 2018 Dietsmann’s Angolan joint venture, Sonadiets, passed a milestone of 12 years without a single incident resulting in sick leave. They achieved this by focusing on tightening up adherence to safety procedures and by a full application of the HSEQ management system. DIETSMANN GROUP SAFETY INDICATORS 15 12 9 0.78 0.64 6 0.42 0.33 3 0.17 0.23 0.08 0 0.15 2015 2016 2017 2018 Man-hours in Mh LTIFR TRIR 36 IV HEALTH, SAFETY, SECURITY, ENVIRONMENT AND QUALITY SAFETY CULTURE PROGRAM For Dietsmann, empowering its teams to be the cornerstone of the Company’s HSEQ system is a priority. To achieve this employees have to understand their HSE responsibilities and duties and must master HSEQ tools. Dietsmann’s Safety Culture programs HSEQ CULTURE DESCRIPTION classify employees into three Management Level II categories according to whether Management Management Level I they work on operational sites, in an office or are a member of the Group’s Performer HSE Training Operational management team. The Dietsmann Garant HSE Training Leader HSE Training staff HSEQ Culture training provided to Operational Management HSEQ Training employees is based on the following: Office staff HSE Training Level II Office staff Office staff HSE Training Level I FIRE FIGHTING TRAINING In Russia the staff in the branches have been taking part in fire safety events. To improve the fire safety status and existing fire prevention standards at the Reftinskya branch a Fire Control contest was organized. A mass sports event, including a Fire-safety Relay Race was held at Sredneuralskaya GRES. The aim was to practice fire-fighting skills, strengthen the team spirit in the various departments and promote safe ways of fighting fires and first aid skills. 37 IV HEALTH, SAFETY, SECURITY, ENVIRONMENT AND QUALITY FIRST AID TRAINING In the event of an unforeseen event that could endanger a person’s life, it is essential that the first link in the rescue chain is responsive and efficient. At work and at home, Dietsmann is committed to ensuring that its employees are able to correctly perform first aid in order to: n protect the victim and witnesses n alert the emergency services n prevent the aggravation of the victim’s condition and preserve his physical integrity pending the arrival of the rescue team 1662 employees in 12 countries have been trained in First Aid. 1/3 of employees have been trained to provide first aid “Training is essential to enable you to evolve and remain attentive to your environment. I had the opportunity to follow a first aid training course this summer and I was delighted. Acquiring basic skills so you can help co-workers at work is important. We should all have these skills because they’re useful in everyday life. The usefulness of the subject, plus the pleasure of doing something different with colleagues, make it easier to learn and remember essential information.” Corinne Meyer Office & Reception Administrator 38 IV HEALTH, SAFETY, SECURITY, ENVIRONMENT AND QUALITY SECURITY Potential threats to Dietsmann’s subsidiaries and JVs are not always predictable and come in many forms, such as physical attacks, political conflicts, major accidents, health alerts, earthquakes and extreme weather. Processes aimed at enabling such threats to be anticipated and plans for dealing with a crisis or incident if it occurs are in place and are up-dated on a regular basis. In a changing global security environment safeguarding the protection of employees by identifying and analyzing security threats remains a top priority. During 2018 a number of Dietsmann employees experienced armed robbery, burglaries, theft, fraud and threats. None of these incidents caused physical injury. EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS AND RESPONSE Emergency preparedness has improved significantly in recent years. At a corporate level the Company’s crisis management plan was reviewed and revised. During the coming years the focus will be on organizing training courses and exercises on a more frequent basis. 39 IV HEALTH, SAFETY, SECURITY, ENVIRONMENT AND QUALITY ENVIRONMENT GENERAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY The environment is of major concern to Dietsmann in all of its activities. This is why the Company has a long-standing commitment to the United Nations Global Compact. Dietsmann supports the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and strives to minimize its environmental footprint. Dietsmann’s commitment to continuously reducing its environmental impact is detailed in its HSEQ Charter and HSEQ policies. Dietsmann strives to minimize the environmental impact of its own and its clients’ activities by providing state-of-the-art maintenance that respects the environment and by reducing the environmental footprint of its own operations. In general, Dietsmann is not governed by a requirement to measure its carbon footprint. However, Dietsmann has calculated the global carbon footprint of its offices, the vehicles fleets at those offices and air travel. MANAGING DIETSMANN’S FOOTPRINT As Dietsmann’s main activity involves the provision of services, its impacts on the environment are more indirect than direct. Since the client remains the initiator for operations, the scope for action may seem limited. Nevertheless, to strengthen its approach to environment protection Dietsmann is working on defining best-practices to optimize resource consumption and waste management and thus achieve a better environmentally-responsible performance. Identifying and managing potential environmental risks are integral aspects of the Company’s project execution and ensure that appropriate measures are taken for every activity and at every location. This practice contributes towards increasing environmental awareness at Dietsmann and its Subcontractors. The emission sources in Dietsmann’s facilities are refrigerants used in building cooling systems, vehicle fleet fuel consumption and emissions associated with business-related air travel. When applicable the greenhouse gas emissions of carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide and any hydrofluorocarbon refrigerants are recorded and reported per source. During 2018 Dietsmann was not subject to any fines or sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations, and no grievances about environmental impact were filed. Dietsmann continuously monitors directives and regulations relating to the environment to ensure that the Company is informed of and prepared for changes. The ISO14001 certification of three Group subsidiaries (France, Russia and Bulgaria) was renewed in 2018. 40 IV HEALTH, SAFETY, SECURITY, ENVIRONMENT AND QUALITY POLLUTION AND WASTE MANAGEMENT Dietsmann develops and implements training and education programs on good environmental protection practices for all employees. To date these programs have focused primarily on raising awareness regarding reducing waste production, promoting and maximizing recycling and the traceability of ultimate waste products. As a result, Dietsmann employs licensed waste companies to dispose of waste wherever available. Waste is sorted in accordance with specific procedures and the sorted waste is transferred to waste collection companies or, in the case of industrial waste, to the client. Where available local facilities are used for the separate disposal of obsolete electrical and electronic equipment and batteries and the weight of waste material is monitored and measured on a regular basis. Dietsmann continues to focus on waste reduction. Total waste varies from year to year, depending on the project portfolio. In recent years total waste quantities have declined significantly in part due to a reduction in activity, but also as a result of waste reduction programs and operational excellence. Hazardous waste includes components that require special care before disposal. Replacement products and solutions that can reduce hazardous waste in maintenance processes are sought continuously. In 2018, Dietsmann experienced only minor spills with very limited impact during its maintenance activities. Most were small spills of hydraulic oil from pumps and other equipment. All spills were handled locally and immediately. SUSTAINABLE USE OF RESOURCES As a global provider of services to the oil and gas, power plants and mining industry, Dietsmann’s activities and related impacts depend almost entirely on its Clients’ needs and activities. This explains the fluctuations in our environmental performance despite our continued pursuit of energy-efficient and resource-efficient products and services. At least twice a year Dietsmann’s HSEQ Department issues a reminder of the “reducing energy usage” campaign. Every employee is encouraged to play their part by turning off appliances and office equipment at the end of the workday and by switching lights off during lunch time and when leaving a conference room or office. 41 IV HEALTH, SAFETY, SECURITY, ENVIRONMENT AND QUALITY TARGETS FOR 2019 The main targets and initiatives for 2019 are to: n Reduce energy use, emissions, spills and waste through new maintenance processes; n Organize World Environment Day events across the Company to raise and strengthen environmental awareness among employees; n Perform a global environmental survey to map local initiatives and practices. The Company will also focus on reducing paper use and increasing paper recycling and revising the reporting method for total waste and recycled waste. Dietsmann is primarily a project-based company, so its energy consumption is closely linked to the amount of work it does. This makes it difficult to target an overall reduction in energy consumption, which is why the Company will focus on carbon dioxide emission. The target is a reduction of one percent per year through the selection of new technological solutions whenever possible. Dietsmann Russia takes an active part in the community life of the towns in which it is active. Every year, in collaboration with municipal authorities, Clean-up events at the Dietsmann employees are actively involved in voluntary clean-up and tree Konakovo & Sredneuraslk planting events, under the Dietsmann flag. branch Dietsmann always encourages its employees to get involved in voluntary activities and the best volunteers are awarded prizes. 42 IV HEALTH, SAFETY, SECURITY, ENVIRONMENT AND QUALITY QUALITY Dietsmann’s Quality Management System has been certificated since 1999. This certification covers the entire range of products and services offered to clients by all ISO 9001 certificated Dietsmann subsidiaries and by the Support & Coordination Office in Monaco and the Support & Coordination Office in Dubai. Currently the following Dietsmann subsidiaries are certificated. n Dietsmann in France n Salies-du-Salat: OHSAS 18001 since 2013 ISO14001 since 2008 ISO 9001 since 1996 n Toulouse: ISO 9001 since 2014 ISO 14001 & OHSAS 18001 since 2013 n Qualification Collège in Boussens: ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 since 2015 n Dietsmann in Monaco LRQA: ISO 9001 since 1999 n Dietsmann in the Republic of Congo (Pointe Noire) Bureau Veritas: ISO 9001 since 2013 n Dietsmann in Gabon (Port Gentil) Bureau Veritas: ISO 9001 since 2014 n Dietsmann in Nigeria (Abuja) Bureau Veritas: ISO 9001 since 2014 n Dietsmann in Angola (Luanda): ISO 9001 since 2016 n Dietsmann in Russia: ISO 14001, ISO 9001, OHSAS 18001 since 2016 n DietsmannEnergoremont in Bulgaria: ISO 9001 since 2001 ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 since 2009 The renewal of the ISO 9001 certification of Dietsmann subsidiaries contributes towards the continuous improvement of the Company’s high standards of quality performance. During 2018, Dietsmann successfully managed the certification audits or external surveillance audits in conformity with ISO 9001:2015 standards for all certified subsidiaries. 43 IV HEALTH, SAFETY, SECURITY, ENVIRONMENT AND QUALITY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY OVERVIEW TABLE SOCIAL 2018 2017 Total workforce 5,326 5,663 1 West Africa (Angola, Gabon, Republic of Congo) 1,414 1,718 2 North & Central Africa (Nigeria, Libya) 715 882 3 East Africa (South Sudan) 87 84 4 East Europe & Central Asia (Russia, Kazakhstan, Bulgaria) 2,613 2,638 5 Latin America (Bolivia) 49 47 6 West Europe (Monaco, Italy and France) 323 261 7 Middle East (Iraq, Qatar, U.A.E.) 88 33 8 Others 37 Workforce by job category position worldwide 9 Administrative 397 488 10 Operational 4,651 4,591 11 Managerial 278 584 Employment 12 New hires of national employees 1,339 422 13 New hires of expatriates 274 74 14 Outflow rate 35.3% 13.2% Diversity 15 Gender rate all positions (women) 11% 10.34% 16 Average age 42 39 17 Percentage of employees over 55 14.8% 12.6% 18 Percentage of employees under 35 24.1% 26.6% 19 Number of nationalities represented in the Group 30 55 20 Rate of National employees (vs expatriates) 87% 88% Training & career opportunities 21 Total training days 14,437 12,357 22 Training expenses (in millions of Euros) 1,094 1,439 44 IV HEALTH, SAFETY, SECURITY, ENVIRONMENT AND QUALITY SOCIAL 2018 2017 Social dialogue & cohesion 23 Percentage of employees covered by a collective bargaining agreement 100% 100% 24 Percentage of scheduled annual interview (ICMS) carried out 90% 86.33% 25 Global rate of employees interviewed (ICMS) 67% 70% Health & Safety 26 Percentage of employees who benefited from a medical check-up 83% 83% 27 Total awareness-raising campaigns on health and safety issues 11 9 28 Lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) per million man-hours worked 0.15 0.23 29 Total recordable incident rate (TRIR) per million man-hours worked 0.33 0.78 ETHICS Anti-corruption 30 Percentage of employees trained in ethics principles 82% 90% (Corporate Shared Responsibility Training) Business partner screening 31 Percentage of suppliers and subcontractors screened and followed-up 60% 65% (Global Compliance including Ethics) LOCAL CONTENT Local purchases 32 Percentage of local purchases (goods & services) 80% 80% Local employment 33 Number of key position nationalized 9 18 34 Percentage of National employees in management positions 67% 60% 35 Percentage of training courses dedicated to national employees 94% 93% in total training provided Local community initiatives 36 Number of partnerships with schools and universities 26 26 37 Total amount dedicated to the socio-economic development of local communities € 218,200 € 211,780 45 IV HEALTH, SAFETY, SECURITY, ENVIRONMENT AND QUALITY ENVIRONMENT 2018 2017 38 Percentage of permanent facilities with a waste storage and sorting area 100% 100% Environmental protection 39 Percentage of countries in which environment awareness raising campaigns were provided to 85% 88% employees 40 Percentage of permanent facilities (offices) for which an environmental risks assessment 45% 40% has been carried out Carbon Dioxide Equivalents (CO2e) in tons 41 Road transport 1,736 42 Air travel 2,579 46 www.dietsmann.com Global Support & Coordination Office Gildo Pastor Center 7, rue du Gabian MC 98000 Monaco tel: +377 93 10 10 10 fax: +377 93 10 10 11 e-mail: info@dietsmann.com
