IMC AG – Scheer Tower | Uni-Campus Nord – 66123 Saarbrücken/Germany imc information multimedia United Nations Global Compact communication AG United Nations Scheer Tower | Uni-Campus Nord New York, NY 10017 66123 Saarbrücken/Germany USA Tel. +49 681 9476-0 Saarbruecken, 10 December 2019 Fax +49 681 9476-530 eMail info@im-c.de Web www.im-c.de Communication on Progress, Year: 2019 Amtsgericht Saarbrücken Commercial Register Saarbruecken To whom it may concern: HRB 13 338 Ust. Id. DE 812 187 208 Being a good corporate citizen is an ambition enthusiastically embraced at IMC Steuernummer all levels within our company. As a member of a Global Compact, we believe IMC Tax Number 040/100/00969 that our business policies incorporate the ten principles. Vorstand Executive Board Christian Wachter (Vorsitzender) We are pleased that in 2019, we have published the following policy Sven R. Becker Dr. Wolfram Jost document, thus officializing already existing good practise in the company: Aufsichtsratsvorsitzender Chairman of the Supervisory Privacy Policy, see attached Board Prof. Dr. Dr. h.c. mult. August-Wilhelm Scheer Our board fully supports our actions in working towards sustainability goals Bankverbindung – in particular those contained in the UN Global Compact – and endorses Bank Details Deutsche Bank AG the future priorities and specific targets we set out in our report. Through Kto. Nr. 2 545 440 02 BLZ 590 700 00 our support of the United Nations Global Compact, we also aim to move IBAN the agenda forward on performance related to human rights, labor rights, DE71590700000254544002 BIC/SWIFT-Code: the environment and the fight against bribery and corruption. Here we DEUTDE5M555 summarize the progress we have made against these principles and we will continue to follow them up in the future. Yours sincerely, Christian Wachter, Member of the Board, IMC AG Company Profile IMC is one of Europe’s largest providers of comprehensive solutions for technology-enhanced learning, training, education, and staff development. The company was established in 1997 by Professor AugustWilhelm Scheer, internationally recognized scholar, entrepreneur and expert in business process management. Since then, IMC has developed solutions related to the design and production of e-learning courses as well as to the design and implementation of technical and professional infrastructures (e.g. learning management system design and implementation; implementation of integrated e-learning infrastructures etc.) for e-learning, distance education, and staff development. IMC operates from its headquarters in Saarbrucken, Germany. Further offices and subsidiaries are located in Freiburg, Munich, Essen, Zurich (Switzerland), Graz (Austria), London (UK), Sibiu (Romania), Melbourne (Australia), Auckland (New Zealand), Scottsdale (USA), and Singapore. Company IMC Information Multimedia Communication AG Address Scheer Tower, Uni-Campus Nord│66123 Saarbrücken Phone: +49 681 9476-0, Fax +49 681 9476-530 E-mail: info@im-c.de│www.im-c.com Founding year 1997 Associates Scheer GmbH (60%); Dr. Wolfang Kraemer, Frank Milius, Dr. Volker Zimmermann (13,33% each) Executive Board Christian Wachter, Sven R. Becker, Dr. Wolfram Jost VAT No. DE 812 187 208 Commercial Register No. HRB 13338 UNGM Registration No. 161680 Products and Services IMC’s focus is on providing customers with a comprehensive portfolio of innovative products and services: ▪ New Media and e-Learning Content Production: IMC provides professional services covering the whole value chain of bespoke e-learning content design and production. IMC runs content projects from customized planning to instructional design, storyboard development and realization up to the roll-out, dependent on customers’ requirements and timeframe. IMC is experienced in working with different learning content formats, i.e. classic e-learning programs (web-based training courses), serious games, smartphone apps, interactive video, e-books, as well as games and training content for mobile websites. ▪ Consulting Services: IMC helps organizations to (re)organize their learning processes and to select, implement, adapt and integrate suitable software systems and technologies. IMC’s consultants perform in-depth need analyses before proposing the right learning management strategy, always considering client-specific demands and learning cultures. Consulting services range from the technical implementation of our products to the conceptualization of an organization’s complete e-learning offering; they include training and coaching services on the instructional design and Page 2 of 27 technical implementation of interactive training content. Service implementation and project management are based on PRINCE2. IMC Products and Services ▪ E-Learning Authoring tools: IMC Content Studio is a high-end e-learning authoring tool able to meet the highest demands. It is a multiple test winner in usability, productivity, functionality and price-performance ratio. The authoring environment is also the perfect solution for the easy and efficient creation and evaluation of exercises, tests, exams and assessments. ▪ Learning Management System: IMC Learning Suite (ILS) is one of the leading Learning Management Systems (LMS) on the market. It is a state-of-the-art software solution that enables decentralized implementation of multimedia-enhanced teaching and learning opportunities within a centrally coordinated organizational framework and organization-wide administration structures. The ILS is top-ranked in the Gartner Group’s market survey on Corporate Learning Solutions and has received high marks in other market analyses (e.g. Bersin & Associates). ▪ Electronic Performance Support: IMC Process Guide is a software solution for the processoriented, workplace-integrated support of users of software systems, e.g. SAP, MS Office, Peoplesoft, as well as a broad range of legacy systems. ▪ On-demand Learning Services include hosting services for learning environments as well as “Software as a Service” arrangements for our customers. IMC implements ITIL guidelines for IT services; a 24/7 ITIL-based service desk for software products is available. ▪ Training Strategy Consulting Services: We provide guidance in the development of innovative and successful training concepts and support in putting them into effect. Page 3 of 27 Standards Quality management at IMC is organized on the basis of the international ISO 9001 standard. IMC holds a recognized DIN EN ISO 9001:2008 quality management certificate and applies a regular schedule for external audits. Since 2015, IMC has also been ISO / IEC 27001:2013 certified, proving the implementation and maintenance of a state-of-the-art Information Security Management System. In December 2015, IMC underwent an Energy Efficiency Audit according to DIN EN 16247-1 in order to implement EU Directives on Energy Efficiency (2012/27/EU) and Energy Service Providing (2006/32/EG). To ensure the quality of services we follow the PRINCE2 project management standard. IMC’s consultants are PRINCE2 trained and certified. Finally, IMC supports the United Nations Global Compact and the Women’s Empowerment principles. Reference Projects with United Nations Organizations Since 1997, IMC has conducted a great number of projects related to the design and development of interactive, multimedia e-learning content. The following figure shows some projects IMC has implemented with UN organizations: Selected Reference Projects with UN Organizations Page 4 of 27 Communication on Progress The following table lists activities and shows progress made toward achieving positive results with regard to the Ten Principles. To the extent available, performance indicators and quantitative data are provided. Different colors highlight the areas of human rights, labor standards, the environment and anti-corruption, i.e. the core field of actions to which the Ten Principles belong. Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year Principle 1: Businesses should IMC acts in conformity with human rights legislation and considers its prescriptions support and respect the protection of especially with regard to the following points: internationally proclaimed human rights. Working Conditions It is one of the main objectives of IMC to create a safe and healthy work environment for its employees according to existent international standards. Appropriate steps are taken to prevent accidents or injury for health arising out of or occurring during work. We are proud that since 2018, we have a signed and published “Health and Safety Policy”. IMC’s headquarters, the Scheer Tower, provides employees with a state-of-the-art working environment. In addition, all IMC subsidiaries meet highest standards for safe and sane working environments. Regular on-site inspection for workplace safety take Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year place resulting in the definition of measures for improvement. The inspections are often combined with a voluntary offer for ergonomics consulting, addressing the correct setting of the workplace (desk, chair, screen, light) and healthy body posture, preventing back pain and muscle tenseness. In each subsidiary, there is a security officer, who is trained in first aid and can be contacted in any case of injury. The security officer is also responsible for risks of injury or any dangerous situations. Furthermore, there is a fire prevention officer in each subsidiary, responsible for evacuation in case of emergency. IMC currently has 15 fire prevention officers in Germany who are trained once per year. IMC employees have always access to drinkable water. A small kitchen is available in every IMC building, IMC’s headquarters also have a snack-bar and canteen. In 2017, IMC introduced a company health program called GET FIT in order to raise awareness among staff regarding nutrition, fitness (including back health) and coping with stress, as well as sharing information for a healthier life. In cooperation with the health insurance Barmer (in Germany) and Vitaliberty, an agency for company health management, the portal MOOVE was introduced for all IMC offices worldwide. MOOVE is a multi-lingual portal that allows tracking of personal health and improving it with personal targets. At IMC’s German offices, additional local campaigns are held. Talks on Page 6 of 27 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year “Healthy Diet at work and at home”, “Live Balance” and “Time Management” were held for all staff, and in the MOOVE portal, a section on “Resilience” was introduced, providing information and practical exercises for the prevention of stress. The position of a compliance officer was created and staffed at IMC Germany in 2018. Furthermore, IMC Learning Suite was made compliant to the European Law GDPR. Staff development was reinforced by offering digital training in the portal “Empower IMC”, while at the same time assuring that staff is compliant with regard to legally required trainings. In 2019, the IMC headquarters moved into a larger building, which provides employees with more individual space and improved working conditions. Due to an innovative building concept employees can work in open space offices and flexible rooms. Health management at IMC has reached a new level in 2019 by introducing company runs (program “Run IMC”) at different locations. IMC has also launched the performance management program EMPOWER ME in 2019. The objective of this program is to operationalize the idea that individual development and organizational performance is not a contradiction. EMPOWER ME replaces the annual meeting of managers and emplyoees with conversations on a regular basis. For development conversations they are provided with individual development plans, which Page 7 of 27 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year are focused on the key strengths and preferences of the employee. What is more, in an excpectations meeting, both, managers and employees, can define expectations of each other. Moreover, in 2019, IMC has started a Brand Ambassador Program for employees. The voluntary participants are provided with group activities such as professional social media trainings, which enhance their skills. There are also social media trainings, which are open to all employees. Wages and Salary IMC ensures “equal pay for equal work” using a transparent remuneration scheme for permanent staff irrespective of any personal circumstances such as gender. A Career Growth/Staff Development System was introduced in 2016, defining the requirements to be met for achieving different career levels in Technical resp. Management Career Paths (see below) for the various departments, which are available to all employees. Page 8 of 27 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year Labor is being paid in conformity with national legal standards. Wages and salaries paid are enough to meet basic needs of the employees. Also, IMC employees can benefit from special arrangements concerning retirement provisions and other compensations for capital accumulation purposes. All employees are provided with written information about wages and salaries to be paid during their employment time before they enter the employment. Wages and salaries are to be paid in case of force majeure circumstances, such as natural disaster, resulting in interruption of operations or financial crises influencing financial stability of the firm. Page 9 of 27 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year With regard to its international subsidiaries, IMC makes sure to be compliant with national legislation, collective wages and employment conditions of the respective countries, drawing from professional legal support. Since 2018, IMC has an officially published “Equality and Diversity Policy”, while an Anti-Discrimination Agreement has been already part of each employee’s working contract for several years. Promoting human rights internationally IMC cooperated with inter-governmental agencies in developing e-learning modules on nutrition and fighting hunger, refugee rights, as well as gender issues, such as prevention from sexual exploitation and abuse, and childrens’ rights. The modules are designed for a global audience. In particular, they address professionals in the humanitarian sector and provide guidance and support to their work. Page 10 of 27 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year Selected performance indicators: The following table shows the current distribution of staff according to gender and age criteria. It also shows IMC’s performance in achieving a gender-balanced workforce: 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Gender Female (in 33 35 37 37 33 33,5 34,5 37 %) Male (in %) 67 65 63 63 67 66,5 65,5 63 Age < 30 years 24 26 25 58 82 71 87 76 groups old 30-50 years 71 69 70 156 134 145 174 185 old >50 years 5 5 5 6 9 17 29 32 old Specific plans for 2020: IMC will continue its efforts to ensure favorable working conditions for its entire workforce regardless of the location. As an inclusive organization IMC will continue to Page 11 of 27 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year strive for gender-equality and a non-discriminatory working environment for company staff. IMC plans to keep its corporate Health Management alive in 2020 with further company runs in different locations. The company strives to expand its Brand Ambassador Program and in this context will offer further social media trainings for the employees. The topics will be selected according to the interests of the staff. As IMC expects a further growth of staff both nationally and internationally in 2020, a specific aim is an improved international internal information policy on the companywide web-based collaboration tool. In addition, IMC will strive to promote further equal working conditions by further advancement of salaries, benefits and working conditions in general. In addition, IMC will continue cooperating with inter-governmental organizations on developing e-learning modules on nutrition and fighting hunger, gender issues, and childrens’ rights in order to increase their impact. Principle 2: Businesses should ensure IMC respects and acts in conformity with the norms of applicable legislation in the that they are not complicit in human regions it operates. rights abuses. IMC is committed to the concept of fair dealing. Each director, officer and employee Page 12 of 27 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year should deal fairly with the Company’s suppliers, customers, employees and competitors. No one should take their advantage of another by manipulation, concealing information, misrepresentation or other similar practice. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold IMC accepts the right of employees to freedom of association and collective bargaining the freedom of association and the in accordance to local labor legislation. Employees have the right to join or to form trade effective recognition of the right to unions. Employees’ representatives are not discriminated and have an ability to carry out collective bargaining. their representative functions in a work place. Principle 4: Businesses should All labor is sourced from the open labor market, employment is freely chosen and there support the elimination of all forms of is no forced, bonded or involuntary prison labor. All IMC employees are provided with forced and compulsory labor. labor contracts and may resign at any time they consider appropriate. In addition, IMC offers the following benefits to its staff: Accident insurance Company pension scheme. In 2019, IMC introduced a leadership program with professional trainings for managers. The goal of the program is to enhance the quality of leadership within the company. Furthermore, the “Plus1 refer program” was launched. This means in effect that IMC’s employees can support someone by referring a candidate and earn rewards. Page 13 of 27 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year Specific plans for 2020: As IMC expects a further growth of staff both nationally and internationally in 2020, specific aims are, among others, further professionalization of Human Resources processes, further reinforcement of internal and international communication, further improvement of leadership development and employee satisfaction in single departments and extension of health management. In addition, IMC will strive to promote further good working conditions by further advancement of salaries, benefits and working conditions in general. Principle 5: the effective abolition of IMC doesn’t source workforce from child labor. It acts in accordance to the following child labor; rules: The course of action taken shall be in the best interests of the child, conform to the provisions of ILO Convention 138 and be consistent with the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. Every employee under 18 should be enabled to attend and remain in quality education until no longer a child. Children and young people under 18 shall not be employed at night or in dangerous conditions. IMC cooperated with inter-governmental agencies on developing e-learning modules on Page 14 of 27 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year childrens’ rights. The modules are designed for a global audience. In particular, they address professionals in the humanitarian sector and provide guidance and support to their work. Specific plans for 2020: IMC will continue cooperating with inter-governmental organizations on developing elearning modules on childrens’ rights in order to increase their impact. Principle 6: Businesses should Since 2018, IMC has an officially published “Equality and Diversity Policy”, while an Antisupport the elimination of Discrimination Agreement was already part of each employee’s working contract for discrimination in respect of several years. employment and occupation. It is the policy of IMC to ensure that no job applicant or employee receives less favorable treatment on the grounds of sex, race, marital status, disability, age, part-time or fixed term contract status, sexual orientation or religion, or is disadvantaged by conditions or requirements that cannot be shown to be justifiable. Abusive, harassing or offensive conduct by an officer and employee is unacceptable, whether verbal, physical or visual. All employees have to sign an anti-discrimination statement. Officers and employees should report any potential incident of harassment to the Human Page 15 of 27 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year Resources Manager when it occurs. IMC emphasizes that discrimination is unacceptable conduct which may lead to disciplinary action under the organization’s Disciplinary Procedure. IMC recognizes the great benefits in having a diverse workforce with different backgrounds, solely employed on ability. IMC supports part-time work and flexible working arrangements that are possible also in management positions. In 2016, IMC implemented the non-profit project Cost Effective, Quality, Skills Education for South African Youth , aiming to increase access to and capacity of higher and further education and training, and therefore access to the labor market in South Africa. IMC therefore developed diagnostic tests and bridging courses in “Numeracy” and “English Literacy” to increase the admission rate to Technical Vocational Education and Training colleges in South Africa, as well as providing free and online accessible high quality training material to those who lack the opportunity to visit a college. In addition, IMC supported the colleges in digitizing their learning material and in the development of their own institutional future technology plans. The project was funded by DEG (Deutsche Investitionsund Entwicklungsgesellschaft), a subsidiary of KfW Development Bank. Page 16 of 27 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year In 2017, IMC started as a partner in the implementation of the non-profit project “InKraFT”, which aims to give people with disabilities the right skills to learn and eventually to work as an automobile mechatronic engineer. The project establishes an innovative and virtual learning concept, providing the right tools to get this new work perspective with the help of digital media and technologies. IMC supports the project by providing the Learning Management System IMC Learning Suite and by integrating the modules of the partners into the platform. In 2018, a new non-profit research project of IMC started which supports the political request to invest more in education and the labor market in Africa. Together with research partners, IMC introduces online research laboratories into African schools in the project „Go-Lab Goes Africa“. During the three-year-project, a knowledge portal for schools in Africa is developed, with content available in French and Swahili. The solution will be tested in schools in Nigeria, Kenya and Benin. The schools will be equipped with the necessary technology, teachers will be trained on the use of digital laboratories in their classes and the solution will include offline functionalities for use when internet connectivity is poor. Furthermore, IMC continued to cooperate with inter-governmental agencies on developing e-learning modules on gender issues, such as prevention from sexual Page 17 of 27 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year exploitation and abuse, and ethics and integrity. The modules are designed for a global audience. In particular, they address professionals in the humanitarian sector and provide guidance and support to their work. Between 21 May and 31 May 2020 IMC organized “diversity weeks”. Special activities and events regarding diversity were scheduled within this timeframe. As a special highlight, IMC’s Management Board and HR department have signed the official Charter of Diversity – an initiative supported by the German Federal Chancellery and under the patronage of German Chancellor Dr. Angela Merkel. Diversity is a core value of IMC. You may follow this link to learn more about IMC’s diversity policy in an expert interview with Elke Zastrau, Head of Human Resources: https://www.im-c.com/news/diversity-week-interview-mit-elke-zastrau/ Page 18 of 27 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year Selected performance indicators: IMC is pleased to have reached its highest number of nationality diversity among its staff in 2019, with a total of 45 different nationalities working at IMC: 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Nationalities of full-time 24 29 31 31 30 29 39 45 staff Gender equality (% of 33 35 37 37 33 33,5 34,5 31 female full-time staff) Specific plans for 2020: A culturally, ethnically, and linguistically diverse workforce has turned out beneficial for the company’s overall business performance in the past. As one of its core values IMC will continue to operationalize the topic of diversity further in 2020. In addition, IMC will continue cooperating with inter-governmental organizations on developing e-learning modules on gender issues in order to increase their impact. Page 19 of 27 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year Principle 7: Businesses should Since 2018, IMC has an officially published “Environmental Policy” and “Environmental support a precautionary approach to Policy Statement (for IMC APAC)”. IMC promotes perceived attitudes to resource environmental challenges. management and resource expenditure in relation to environmental background. All operations have to be completed undue any negative impacts on human beings or environmental pollution. IMC cooperates with inter-governmental agencies on developing e-learning modules on various environmental issues. The modules are designed for a global audience. In particular, they address professionals in the humanitarian sector and provide guidance and support to their work. Specific plans for 2020: Sustainability will be a focus topic at IMC in 2020. IMC plans to design corresponding actions. Principle 8: Businesses should Since 2018, IMC has a published “Environmental Policy” and “Environmental Policy undertake initiatives to promote Statement (for IMC APAC). greater environmental responsibility. In December 2015, IMC underwent an Energy Efficiency Audit according to DIN EN 16247-1, as required by the new amendment to the German Law on Energy Service Providing (EDL-G) that implements the EU Directives on Energy Efficiency (2012/27/EU) Page 20 of 27 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year and Energy Service Providing (2006/32/EG). The audit report was made available in 2016, containing recommendation for measures of improvement which are successively implemented during its 5-year validity. IMC continues the use of an additional line in all employees’ e-mail signature: “Please consider the environment before printing this e-mail.” to avoid waste of paper not only internally, but also outside the house. Travel policy of IMC underlines that employees must respect environmental standards when organizing work-related travels. Travelling by train is the preferred way of transport, besides flights and hiring cars when necessary. Thanks to a more diversified staff distribution in the branch offices (e.g. more New Media and Sales employees in the Munich, Essen, Melbourne or Singapore Offices), travel efforts can be significantly reduced for visiting local clients. The same principles are applied with regard to subcontractors wherever possible. These measures contribute to a reduction in CO2 emissions, travel costs and strain on employees, thus improving their work-life balance. IMC practices waste separation, according to the German law. In 2016, IMC’s Munich Office changed from paper towels to washable cloth towel rolls, avoiding waste of paper. In addition, IMC cooperates with inter-governmental agencies on developing e-learning modules on various environmental issues. The modules are designed for a global Page 21 of 27 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year audience. In particular, they address professionals in the humanitarian sector and provide guidance and support to their work. Specific plans for 2020: IMC will continue taking the measures identified by the Energy Efficiency Audit in order to improve its energy management and enhance its environmental responsibility. In general, sustainability will be one of IMC’s core topics in 2020. IMC plans to design corresponding actions. Principle 9: Businesses should The “Green IT” concept is widely advocated for IMC. Challenges, which result from encourage the development and complexity of environmental protection, have large influence on IT-development and diffusion of environmentally friendly usage spectrum: technologies. New media channels for educational programs are offering chances to promote environmental protection. • Learning Solutions become a core competence of Green IT because they can substitute business trips and face-to-face meetings, and hence they reduce CO2 emissions, the travel cost budget and the strain on employees, thus improving their work-life balance. • The term “Green IT” marks information technologies which make significant Page 22 of 27 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year ecologic contribution. Reducing a travel route by 1 km reduces the CO2 emission by an average of approximate 204 gram – in comparison to this, the energy use produced by the IT is negligible. A virtually conducted meeting or an e-learning course with 12 students would reduce the CO2 emission by 244 kg, given an average travel route of 1,200 km. • IMC has increased the use of Web Meetings and Virtual Classroom Sessions for internal communication and cooperation as well as for project coordination meetings with customers. This action reduces the need for travelling and contributes to the reduction of CO2 emissions. IMC intends to further expand its activities in this area in the coming years. • In IMC Learning Suite, the Learning Management System developed by IMC, the options for using one of a variety of virtual classroom tools, among them open source solutions, have been expanded. Thus, IMC impacts and facilitates its customers’ practice to hold meetings and trainings virtually instead of face-toface, reducing CO2 emissions. • IMC supports the DHL GoGreen climate protection projects by combining its shipments with DHL GoGreen services whenever possible. DHL calculates C02 emissions generated by transport using a method based on the ISO 14064 Page 23 of 27 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year standard. In accordance with the specifications of the Kyoto Protocol, these emissions are offset by climate protection projects. • IMC also has increased and intensified its business operations in the area of “cloud computing”, providing professional services to its customers via hosted IT environments. This allows for synergies in the use of IT systems via shared IT infrastructures. In 2013, IMC received the “Cloud for Society Award” for its business operations in this area. The award also covers “green IT” aspects of IT operations. IMC’s software products, the Learning Management System IMC Learning Suite, the authoring tool IMC Content Studio/“IMC Teach”, and the performance support tool IMC Process Guide, are all available as cloud-based solutions (software as a service). • IMC has reduced the number of company cars with high CO2 emissions. With regard to reducing CO2 emissions, SUVs have been banned completely from IMC’s car pool. In addition, IMC cooperates with inter-governmental agencies in developing e-learning modules on various environmental issues. The modules are designed for a global audience. In particular, they address professionals in the humanitarian sector and provide Page 24 of 27 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year guidance and support to their work. Specific plans for 2020: Sustainability will be a focus topic at IMC in 2020. IMC plans to design corresponding actions. Principle 10: Businesses should work In 2018, the position of a compliance officer was created and staffed at IMC Germany. All against all forms of corruption, directors, officers and employees shall comply fully with all laws affecting the business of including extortion and bribery. IMC, including, without limitation, all laws prohibiting insider trading, money laundering, bribery, improper payments and anti-competitive activities. The consequences to the company and its directors, officers and employees of any departure from this policy can be very serious. If a criminal violation has occurred, the company will take appropriate steps to stop the criminal conduct and to prevent such conduct from re-occurring. IMC is certified according to ISO / IEC 27001: 2013, proving IMC’s Information Security Management System, and holds a recognized DIN EN ISO 9001:2008 Quality Management Certificate, applying a regular schedule for external audits. State-of-the-art data protection and digital processes, combined with staff trainings, contribute to a transparent working environment. The following processes are already being monitored by the ISO standard: People Review (staff appraisal), Induction of new staff, Onboarding Page 25 of 27 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year of new staff (administratively), Exit of staff, Career Growth/Staff Development, and Internal Change of Department of Staff. In order to foster compliance with anti-corruption rules in a broad range of business operations, IMC has developed an interactive training curriculum available for use in organizations of all kinds. In addition, IMC has broadened its product portfolio with an online compliance management system which is used by IMC customers in order to effectively provide compliance relevant training to their workforce. In 2017, IMC has introduced, and continued since then, a bi-monthly “Impulse Session” to improve internal transparency and communication between the board and staff. The meeting is held onsite at headquarters and shared by a live webstream with all staff at other offices and subsidiaries. In 2019, IMC has introduced a professional contract management system for customer contracts, in order to further professionalize internal processes. The newly introduced system also leads to greater transparency with regard to contract negotiations. IMC also released a Privacy Policy in 2019 (see attached). The purpose of this corporate policy is to safeguard and protect the fundamental rights and freedoms of data subjects, in particular their right ro the protection of personal data. Furthermore, IMC is cooperating with inter-governmental organizations on developing Page 26 of 27 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year e-learning modules on corruption prevention, internal controls and raising fraud awareness. They are targeted to a global audience of professionals in the humanitarian sector. Specific plans for 2020: IMC will strive to further improve internal communication and transparency. As IMC expects a further growth of staff both nationally and internationally in 2020, the company aims at improving the international internal information policy on the company-wide web-based collaboration tool. In addition, IMC will continue cooperating with inter-governmental organizations on developing e-learning modules on corruption prevention in order to increase their impact. Attachments: IMC – Privacy Policy Page 27 of 27
