SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 CONTENTS CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 2 INTRODUCTION METHODOLOGY, SCOPE AND ASSURANCE ABOUT THE CARLSBERG GROUP CEO foreword .........................................................3 This report covers the relevant and significant Sustainable business ............................................5 social, ethical and environmental issues for the Together Towards ZERO....................................6 financial year 1 January to 31 December 2018. It gives our stakeholders an overview of our performance in these areas, complementing our OUR AMBITIONS Annual Report, which primarily covers our financial and economic performance. ZERO CARBON FOOTPRINT ....................................................... 9 The first section presents our strategy, along with details of Together Towards ZERO, our global ZERO WATER sustainability programme. The second section WASTE ............................................................. 16 describes our performance against our four Together Towards ZERO ambitions, while ZERO IRRESPONSIBLE presenting selected case stories from across the DRINKING ........................................................ 20 Group. The third section provides supplementary information under the headings: Responsible ZERO ACCIDENTS business, Economic contribution to society, and CULTURE ......................................................... 26 Data and assurance. This report also serves as our annual SUPPLEMENTARY communication on progress to the UN Global Compact and as the statutory statement on CSR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS ........................................... 31 in accordance with section 99a of the Danish ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION TO SOCIETY .............. 35 Financial Statements Act. DATA AND ASSURANCE ............................................ 40 Data summary table ......................................... 40 carlsberggroup.com @carlsberggroup Reporting process and scope......................... 47 Indicator definitions ........................................... 49 List of reporting sites ........................................ 56 @carlsberggroup Carlsberg Group Tax contribution principles ............................. 58 Assurance report................................................. 60 Introduction CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 INTRODUCTION 3 PROGRESS TOWARDS ZERO Businesses have an increasingly with the more ambitious 1.5°C level of the Paris Agreement. important role to play in securing a sustainable future. That is why The latest agreement reached in Katowice, we are working hard to improve Poland, during COP24 was a good step in the right direction. However, business leadership is the financial and strategic health also much needed to prevent irreparable of our business and deliver on damage, so I was pleased to co-sign a letter our ambitious sustainability from the Alliance of CEO Climate Leaders programme, Together Towards calling for an ambitious climate deal. ZERO. At Carlsberg, we have embedded Together Towards ZERO in our corporate strategy, 2018 was a good year for the Carlsberg Group. SAIL’22, guiding decisions top down and We delivered a strong set of results, accelerating bottom up. Meanwhile, our commitment to the top-line growth, improving margins, delivering a UN Global Compact and Sustainable strong cash flow and reducing debt even further. Development Goals remains the global context Taken together with the progress detailed in this for our local actions. Across the world, we are report, I believe this demonstrates that we are proud to support the local communities in living our purpose of brewing for a better today which we operate. and tomorrow, proving that successful business is sustainable business. Although 2018 was largely a year of progress, unfortunately this was not true for all our focus As I look back at 2018 and forward to 2019, I areas. Despite reducing our lost-time accident am keenly aware of our responsibility to act. rate by 35% since our baseline year of 2015, I Scientists warn us that the world is at a tipping am far from satisfied with our health & safety point. The planet is getting warmer and water record. Keeping people safe must always be our resources are becoming scarcer. Tackling number one priority, and yet we suffered three climate change is therefore critical for achieving fatalities during the year. I am deeply saddened a sustainable future. This is the reason why we by this loss of life and extend my sincerest have set our emission reduction targets in line sympathies to the families involved. These CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 INTRODUCTION 4 tragedies underline the need for day-to-day Our sustainability roadmap up to 2022 is well vigilance to create a ZERO accidents culture. planned and our 2018 performance shows that, while we continue to make progress, significant In 2018, we improved energy efficiency and challenges remain for reaching our 2030 targets. reduced relative carbon emissions across our Solving these will mean innovating effectively, operations by 5%, giving a total relative carbon working with partners and preparing for a reduction since 2015 of 20%. rapidly changing world. Coal is the most carbon-intensive source of We have always believed in the power of energy, and we are making progress on our science, and our Young Scientists Community is commitment to phase it out by 2022, having developing pioneering solutions to help us deliver already reduced our usage by 78% over three on our ambitious targets. years. We will continue converting our remaining coal-fuelled sites in China, India and Poland. Our contribution to science and society has been further strengthened by our main shareholder, We also made strides in reducing carbon in our the Carlsberg Foundation, which granted more wider value chain, including sustainable than DKK 500m for scientific, cultural and packaging innovations such as our plasticsocietal activities in 2018. Ultimately, the better reducing Snap Pack. Such innovations enable our financial performance, the more support the direct engagement with customers and Carlsberg Foundation can provide. In this consumers on sustainability, while delivering respect, I am pleased that, as a consequence of less plastic waste and lower carbon emissions. our strong financial performance in 2018, the Supervisory Board is recommending a further As for water, we maintained our relative water increase in dividends and a share buy-back consumption of 3.1 hl/hl. While we have programme, returning DKK 7.2bn to our reduced our usage by 9% since our baseline shareholders. year, we still have a long way to go to achieve our 2030 target of halving our global usage. In short, the strength of our financial results, together with the continued progress against our Consumers want to make informed choices, and sustainability ambitions, is testament to growing we are proud to tell them what is in our beers. In both a successful and a sustainable business. Western Europe, 86% of our packaging now provides information on ingredients and Cees ’t Hart nutritional values, while 96% globally now CEO, Carlsberg Group carries responsible drinking icons or text to discourage irresponsible drinking. I am also pleased to see the continued growth of alcoholfree brews, giving consumers more choice. SUCCESSFUL BUSINESS CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 INTRODUCTION 5 IS SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS We believe a healthy business takes care to ensure that profitability and sustainability exist in harmony. Sustainability is therefore embedded in our corporate strategy, SAIL’22. This aims to create sustainable value growth in optimising the balance between volumes, margins, profit and cash. Here, you can see our strong 2018 financial performance and our sustainability progress. TOGETHER CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 INTRODUCTION 6 TOWARDS ZERO Never before have the global issues of climate change, water scarcity and public health been so pressing. Building on our purpose of brewing for a better today and tomorrow, our response is our sustainability programme Together Towards ZERO. Our four sustainability ambitions are: ZERO carbon footprint, ZERO water waste, ZERO irresponsible drinking and a ZERO accidents culture. Each ambition is underpinned by clear, measurable targets for 2022 and 2030. This report updates you on our progress. CREATING A MORE RESILIENT BUSINESS Resilience comes through embedding sustainability in our corporate strategy for the entire Group, SAIL’22. Our ambitions continue to drive our actions: reducing risks and creating efficiency improvements while working in harmony with local communities and the environment. We are building on our strong scientific OUR PURPOSE foundation and heritage of developing groundSome have to dig deep to find their purpose. For us, it has breaking innovations that benefit our brewing always been there. We pursue perfection every day. We and wider society. strive to brew better beers; beers that stand at the heart of moments that bring people together. We do not settle for immediate gain when we can create a better tomorrow for all of us. We are brewing for a better today and tomorrow. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 INTRODUCTION 7 PARTNERING TO DELIVER OUR Meanwhile, irresponsible drinking remains a PROGRAMME complex social problem that can have We know we cannot achieve our ambitions by detrimental effects for individuals and their working in isolation. Our programme was families. As brewers, we must continue to work devised with the support of experts using a with governments and communities to move science-based approach, and we are society towards a healthier, more positive collaborating with experts to deliver it. drinking culture. What is more, we regularly engage with our IMPORTANT CONTRIBUTION TO THE stakeholders, listening to how they think we GLOBAL ECONOMY can improve. Together, we can make faster Our impact as a Group is broad and farprogress towards ZERO. reaching. With operations in more than 35 countries, and export and licence activities GLOBAL CHALLENGES in more than 100 countries, we keep thousands 2018 saw record-high temperatures in many of people employed and support infrastructure parts of the world. And the latest reports from through our tax contribution, which in 2018 the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate totalled around DKK 43bn. You can see more Change (IPCC) are alarming. It is clear that we on pages 35-39. YOUNG must take faster action if we are to realise the aims of the Paris Agreement and limit the FOCUSING ON THE AREAS THAT SCIENTISTS significant and dangerous changes predicted by MATTER MOST COMMUNITY leading climate scientists if we do not. That is The actions we take with Together Towards why our targets align with the Paris ZERO are aligned with the UN’s Sustainable In 2018, we hired a group of Agreement’s more ambitious aim of limiting Development Goals (SDGs), as you can see on postdoctoral researchers to join the global temperature rise to 1.5°C by the end of the next page. These priorities are based on a Carlsberg Young Scientists this century. materiality assessment of the most important Community. This community of sustainability management topics, risks and creative, innovative and forwardAt the same time, the water systems that are impacts for our business. We expect to update thinking young scientists from fundamental to a growing human population our materiality assessment in 2019 to ensure around the world is tasked with and keep ecosystems thriving are becoming that our activities remain aligned with internal helping us find or develop relevant stressed. And this will only worsen with and external stakeholders, and that we technologies and ways to apply changes in our weather patterns as a result of maintain focus on the most important areas for them in our business. Its work will be climate change. us and society. crucial to the attainment of our targets of ZERO carbon footprint It hardly needs stating, but, to put it bluntly, no and ZERO water waste. water means no beer. This changing world will undoubtedly have major implications for our industry. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 INTRODUCTION 8 In the Carlsberg Group, we believe in We focus our efforts on the goals and targets MOST MATERIAL SDGs establishing clear global ambitions, frameworks that are material to our business and where we and governance structures – all of which are can create the greatest impact, and review realised locally across our markets. Together these every year. The diagram on this page Towards ZERO is owned by our Executive shows the goals most affected by each area of Committee (ExCom) and overseen by the Together Towards ZERO, as well as those that Supervisory Board, but responsibility for cut across all our activities. implementing the relevant key performance indicators (KPIs) is assigned to a network of In the performance sections of this report you area owners. In this way, the functions that can also see the specific targets we are have the biggest impact and capacity to contributing towards under each goal – and influence are empowered to create change. some examples of actions we are taking. Examples of our action for cross-cutting SDGs Every quarter, ExCom receives an overview of 12, Responsible consumption and production, progress on selected sustainability KPIs across and 17, Partnerships for the goals, can be the business. Many of these KPIs are built into found on pages 12 and 19 respectively. daily routines at sites across our markets. Providing this granular detail ensures CROSS-CUTTING SDGs transparency and demonstrates our TOGETHER TOWARDS THE SDGs commitment to the goals. Taken together, the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) form a blueprint for a more sustainable world. They call on governments, civil society, businesses and the general public to act to end poverty, reduce inequality and limit climate change by 2030. Being interconnected, all the SDGs are important, and within each goal there are a number of targets and topics. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 INTRODUCTION 9 To reduce plastic waste and lower the CO2 impact of our multipacks, we have introduced our new Snap Pack. It uses glue technology to hold multipacks together, meaning you just snap the cans apart. Compared with traditional multipack packaging, the Snap Pack will cut plastic usage by up to 76%. Once fully rolled out, it is estimated that the Snap Pack will reduce our total ZERO use of secondary plastic packaging by more than 1,200 tonnes annually. A world first for the beer industry, the Snap CARBON Pack took us three years to develop in collaboration with our partners. FOOTPRINT LEARN MORE ON OUR WEBSITE www.carlsberggroup.com/ sustainability/actions-towards-zero ZERO Carbon Footprint ZERO CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ZERO CARBON FOOTPRINT 10 CARBON FOOTPRINT Climate change is threatening people’s lives and livelihoods around the world. We are committed to bold climate action that progresses towards a ZERO carbon footprint. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) has issued critical warnings for global warming of 2°C and more above preindustrial levels. Without urgent action, by the end of the century weather will be more extreme, sea levels will be higher and crops will struggle.1 This is why we have designed our carbon targets in Together Towards ZERO to reduce our emissions in line with the more ambitious 1.5°C level of the Paris Agreement. We believe it is possible for companies to significantly cut emissions while still driving business growth. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ZERO CARBON FOOTPRINT 11 ELIMINATING ELIMINATING COAL ZERO CARBON EMISSONS We are acting fast to eliminate coal because it EXAMPLES OF OUR SDG ACTIONS BREWERY EMISSIONS is a carbon-intensive, polluting source of 2018 PERFORMANCE UPDATE energy. In 2018, we reduced our coal usage by In 2018, we reduced relative carbon emissions 28% compared with 2017, giving a 78% by 5% to 5.6 kg CO2/hl, from 5.9 kg CO2/hl in reduction since 2015. We will continue the 2017. This represents a 20% reduction since focus on converting our remaining coal-fuelled 2015, our baseline year. Our absolute emissions sites in China, India and Poland on our journey remained at the same level as in 2017 due to towards ZERO coal by 2022. country mix effects. Energy efficiency improved by 5% to 25.6 kWh/hl, compared to 26.9 RENEWABLE ENERGY kWh/hl in 2017. In 2018, 46% of our total electricity consumption came from renewable sources, SDG TARGETS which represents an increase of 1% compared EFFICIENCY PROGRAMMES 7.2 By 2030, increase substantially with 2017 performance. We continued our mission to eliminate the share of renewable energy emissions with a drive towards world-class in the global energy mix. Our breweries in Western Europe use 100% efficiency, implementing best practice and 7.3 By 2030, double the global rate of renewable electricity, including 394,808 MWh searching for innovative ways to continuously improvement in energy efficiency. improve our existing processes. with renewable energy certificates in 2018. Meanwhile, we use solar installations at BIOMASS EXAMPLES OF OUR ACTIONS To equip our breweries with best practice breweries in China, India and Switzerland, and IN SERBIA Increasing share of renewable energy in 2018 added a new 1 MW rooftop learnings from across the Group, in 2018 we Improving energy efficiency installation at our brewery in Utena, Lithuania. A new biomass boiler at our implemented the Carlsberg Operational Manual Čelarevo brewery, fuelled by wood (COM) globally. Progress in efficiency requires SDG TARGETS pellets, helped reduce relative carbon innovation and new thinking, and also the 13.1 Strengthen resilience and adaptive emissions at the site by 22% in 2018. continuous maintenance of equipment, capacity to climate-related hazards particularly as it ages. and natural disasters. Combined with the pre-existing 13.3 Improve education, awarenesswastewater treatment biogas facility raising and capacity on climate and the use of renewable electricity, change mitigation, adaptation, more than 55% of the site’s total impact reduction and early warning. energy now comes from renewable sources. This is an example of how EXAMPLES OF OUR ACTIONS we are progressing towards Meeting our science-based target eliminating carbon emissions at our Encouraging suppliers to reduce breweries by 2030. emissions Raising awareness of the need for action on climate change CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ZERO CARBON FOOTPRINT 12 Sources of renewable thermal energy include CROSS-CUTTING SDGs biomass and biogas. As of 2018, a total of 24 EXAMPLES OF OUR SDG ACTIONS breweries have biogas extraction facilities and/or use biomass to deliver renewable heat for breweries across our regions. In total, energy from renewable thermal and electricity sources, including biomass, biogas and solar, has grown to 20%, compared to 18% in 2017 and 15% in 2015, our baseline year. As a member of RE100, a coalition of influential businesses committed to 100% SDG TARGETS renewable electricity, we continue to advocate 12.2 By 2030, achieve the sustainable the wider use of energy from renewable management and efficient use of sources. natural resources. 12.5 By 2030, substantially reduce waste generation through prevention, reduction, EFFICIENCY GAINS recycling and reuse. 12.6 Encourage companies, especially large IN CHINA and transnational companies, to adopt technology reduces energy consumption Nowhere has seen more impressive results sustainable practices and to integrate from our Group-wide efficiency drive than significantly, using material that is ten times sustainability information into their our Chinese breweries. Since our baseline thinner than traditional mineral wool to reporting cycle. year of 2015, thermal energy efficiency has create the same effect. On average, nano 12.9 Support developing countries to improved by more than 29%, electricity by insulation cuts the energy use of our strengthen their scientific and almost 11% and water by 15%. packaging lines by 10%. technological capacity to move towards more sustainable patterns of The rapid progress has been a result of Other benefits include the increased lifespan consumption and production. factors such as implementing best practice of up to 50 years, enhanced cleanliness due through the Carlsberg Operational Manual to the stainless steel finish, and a more (COM), educating our people, and comfortable working environment for our EXAMPLES OF OUR ACTIONS converting coal boilers to natural gas boilers. workers due to an average 5-7°C lower Driving energy and water efficiency at our breweries working environment in summer. One of the most innovative initiatives has Innovating packaging such as Snap Pack been upgrading 24 packaging lines to use Investing in new technology and new “nano insulation” technology. Originally research in production, packaging developed to insulate spacecraft, this and energy CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ZERO CARBON FOOTPRINT 13 REDUCING OUR 2018 PERFORMANCE UPDATE To measure progress towards our 2022 and PACKAGING INNOVATIONS At around 40%, packaging is the biggest source ZERO, our commercial team worked with our development and supply chain teams to BEER-IN-HAND 2030 targets, we are carrying out in-depth of carbon emissions in our value chain. Many reassess the brand’s packaging, identifying EMISSIONS assessments of our beer-in-hand carbon stakeholders are involved in its development where more sustainable improvements could footprint every three years. The next is due in and use, so we are working collaboratively on be made. These innovations are shown at the It is not enough to eliminate our brewery 2020 to measure 2017-2019 progress. improvements. bottom of this page. emissions – we also need to tackle our value chain emissions for the total carbon footprint Meanwhile, we are building on our solid 2017 An example of our work in this area in 2018 Other improvements in 2018 included reducing of our products. We call this our beer-in-hand progress with several carbon-reducing was the launch of several packaging the weight of Carlsberg glass bottles by 10%, footprint and we have set targets to reduce initiatives across packaging, refrigeration, innovations together with the redesign of the thus also reducing their CO2 impact. carbon emissions in our value chain by 15% and waste and recycling systems, and logistics. Carlsberg brand. Building on Together Towards 30% in 2022 and 2030 respectively. PARTNERSHIPS These innovations have only been made possible by working closely with our supply chain partners. Carbon is now an important part of our supplier conversations, as we SNAP PACK C2C LABEL INKS & COATING FOR REFILLABLE BOTTLES RECYCLED SHRINK WRAP In 2018, we launched our new Snap Pack to reduce plastic In 2018, we launched Cradle to Cradle CertifiedTM (C2C) silver In 2018, we launched recycled shrink wrap containing 50-100% usage in our multipacks by up to 76% with an innovative glue inks on bottle labels to improve the future recycling potential of recycled plastic – partly from our own production – for technology. Less material also means less CO2 impact. the materials where these inks are used. We also applied new multipacks where Snap Pack is not available. With up to 60% coating to refillable glass bottles to make them attractive for lower CO2 impact than virgin shrink wrap, it creates more longer, increasing reuse and thus decreasing CO2 emissions. demand for recycling, closing the materials loop. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ZERO CARBON FOOTPRINT 14 encourage all companies to be equally ambitious in their carbon reductions to help us reduce the total carbon impact of our products. WHAT WE SAID 2017 WHAT WE DID 2018 15 of our suppliers have committed to scienceBreweries Breweries based targets – out of only 515 companies to have taken this step globally. ZERO carbon roadmap Supply chain strategy updated to deliver Refine local ZERO carbon footprint roadmaps to against 2022 targets at our breweries, achieve 2022/2030 targets including investments and action plans Aside from supplier partnerships, in 2018 we went further and initiated a partnership with Performance improvements Plastic Change, while deepening our Implement best practice to reduce energy Operational standards updated and improved. ISO 50001 certifications We take reducing our partnership with WWF Denmark. With their consumption and continue ISO 50001 obtained at 2 additional sites impact on the environment very certifications in Western Europe help, we are devising solutions to reduce the seriously. In 2018, we took a further step in beer-in-hand carbon footprint of our products, our commitment to eliminate carbon Procurement strategy updated to reflect emissions from our breweries by 2030. introducing circular packaging solutions and market developments, renewable Renewable electricity Since 2015, we have reduced our relative educating the public on the importance of electricity types (solar and wind), Revise renewable energy procurement strategy carbon emissions by 20%. I’m proud of the recycling. We will make further announcements regulatory changes and available instruments teams in supply chain and across the about this during 2019. business who are reducing emissions and Carlsberg Young Scientists Community Six postdoctoral students assigned innovating new technologies to reach our Establish a community of young scientists specific research tasks at Carlsberg target.” LOW-CLIMATE-IMPACT REFRIGERANTS focused on developing solutions to achieve our Research Laboratory within e.g. energy The ability to serve our beers cold from fridges 2030 carbon target engineering and carbon reduction Philip A. Hodges and draught equipment is a basic expectation EVP Group Supply Chain of consumers and therefore core to our Beer-in-hand Beer-in-hand Carlsberg Group business. Refrigeration makes up 9% of our Some suppliers engaged in discussions Supplier engagement related to ambitious carbon targets and value-chain carbon footprint, so we have a Engage with suppliers with highest CO2 footprint Science Based Targets Initiative. 15 2022 target to purchase only 100% lowto reduce shared emissions suppliers have science-based targets climate-impact cooling equipment using, for approved or under application example, hydrocarbon refrigerants while also Supplier relationship management meeting our standards for energy efficiency Integrate CO2 in supplier relationship 171 suppliers evaluated in 2017/2018 and lighting. management process to measure and follow up on CO2 performance and other KPIs on supplier performance We are therefore pleased to report that in 2018 Market innovations Several sustainable packaging 88% of newly purchased commercial fridges Develop and market innovations with lower innovations introduced as part of and beer coolers lived up to our specifications carbon footprint and material use Carlsberg brand reappraisal for low-climate-impact cooling. We expect to Consumer awareness Climate change and CO2 explicitly used in consumer-facing communication further improve on this figure in 2019 as Increase communication and engagement with related to recycled shrink wrap, Snap consumers on climate change availability and service capabilities improve. Pack and other matters Fully Partially Not achieved achieved achieved CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ZERO CARBON FOOTPRINT 15 INCREASING FOCUS ON WASTE AND LOGISTICS our warehouses. This often means switching to RECYCLING SYSTEMS As logistics makes up 14% of our carbon electric power as an alternative to diesel or In all markets, we are closely following footprint, we are always looking for more liquified petroleum gas (LPG). ACTIONS discussions around the circular economy, waste efficient ways to transport our products. In TOWARDS ZERO 2019 and recycling. One market where we are taking 2018, we continued our long-term efficiency AGRICULTURE Breweries a more active role is Russia, where Baltika programmes: optimising route planning; The Carlsberg Research Laboratory is Implement actions from roadmaps to achieve Breweries collaborates with waste operators to improving load factors to put fewer vehicles on continuing its work on new high-yielding, carbon reductions, improve energy efficiency help develop a separate waste collection and the road; and, where possible, sharing delivery disease-tolerant malting barley varieties with and continue efforts to phase out coal recycling system. Baltika and its partners have loads with other businesses and industries. special properties for brewing. The aim is to provided more than 10,000 containers in over produce variants adapted for a broad Increase use of renewable heat and renewable 50 Russian cities for the collection of consumer To go further, we are exploring new geographical area, different climatic electricity by utilising biogas from new wastewater plants, switching to biomass, packaging waste. In 2018, around 79,000 technologies that can help us reduce our environments and extreme weather conditions, generating more on-site renewable electricity tonnes of waste was sent for recycling. Baltika logistics carbon footprint. During 2018, we reducing the carbon footprint by improving and using market instruments will be helping to expand the initiative across worked with two vehicle manufacturers to yields, and thereby increasing profitability for Russia in 2019. explore the use of electric trucks for city farmers. Explore new technologies in energy generation and usage deliveries. We hope to run a trial at the end of We will continue working actively with this 2019 with the aim of expanding this solution. Beer-in-hand agenda to increase recycling and reuse of our packaging materials across our markets and We are also working to identify and source the Refine approach to reduce scope 3 carbon emissions, including carbon KPIs for suppliers portfolio. most efficient and practical forklift trucks for and the incorporation of carbon footprint in the tender process Engage with key suppliers to promote and support their carbon emission ambitions CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ZERO CARBON FOOTPRINT 16 PU:REST is a crystal-clear pilsner brewed using purified wastewater, challenging consumers’ preconceived notions and demonstrating how wastewater technology can help solve future world water shortages. The wastewater used in PU:REST was purified at the Hammarby water treatment plant near to Nya Carnegiebryggeriet (New Carnegie Brewery), Sweden, where it was used together with organic pilsner malt, Spalter hops and Brooklyn House lager yeast. Devising and producing PU:REST involved a close collaboration between Nya Carnegiebryggeriet, IVL Swedish Environmental Institute and Carlsberg Sverige. The limited-edition beer sold out in major retailers within a week. LEARN MORE ON OUR WEBSITE www.carlsberggroup.com/sustainability/ actions-towards-zero ZERO WATER WASTE ZERO water waste ZERO CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ZERO WATER WASTE 17 WATER WASTE Current trends show that by 2025 two thirds of the world’s population may face water shortages and ecosystems will be under stress. To put this in context, only 3% of the world’s water supply is fresh and safe for human use – yet most is frozen in glaciers or otherwise inaccessible. Today, with the impact of pollution, climate change and other factors, 1.1 billion people worldwide have no access to fresh water. For 2.7 billion people, water is scarce for at least one month every year.2 This is why we have set targets to halve water usage at our breweries and to partner to safeguard shared water resources in highrisk areas. 2018 PERFORMANCE UPDATE If we used no water at all, there would be no beer. It is an essential ingredient both in our products and for cleaning during the brewing process. Our 2030 water usage target of 1.7 hl used for every 1 hl of beer brewed will enable us to meet our ambition of virtually eliminating water waste. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ZERO WATER WASTE 18 At 3.1 hl/hl, we have made a 9% improvement Achieving our 50% reduction target by 2030 However, in some markets we are facing ZERO WATER WASTE in water efficiency since our 2015 baseline. will require further innovation and regulatory challenges to taking full advantage EXAMPLES OF OUR SDG ACTIONS This represents strong performance within our development. This is a focus for our Young of this method, which will be key to achieving industry and takes constant effort from our Scientists Community, which you can read our 2022 and 2030 targets. people to maintain and improve further. more about on page 7. However, we are aware that a flat MARKET PROJECTS performance in 2018 versus 2017 means that WASTEWATER TREATMENT In the UK, a new project involves recovering faster change will be required to reach our Treating wastewater so that it can be reused is used rinsewater from the cleaning of bottles 2022 target. an essential method for cutting water usage prior to filling. After treatment, the water is within the brewing process. With the right used for pasteurisation, saving around 45,000 ACTIONING OUR ROADMAPS equipment, it can be reused for cleaning or hectolitres of water during the year. Much of our progress since 2015 has been the safely discharged into the environment. result of a rigorous efficiency drive, which was SDG TARGETS reinforced during 2018 by a revision of our 6.4 By 2030, substantially increase waterglobal operational standards for water. These use efficiency and ensure sustainable reflect industry best practice, equipping our WHAT WE SAID 2017 WHAT WE DID 2018 withdrawals and supply of fresh water breweries around the world with an to address water scarcity. understanding of the minimum expected. 6.5 By 2030, implement integrated water resources management at all levels. We have also refined our ZERO water waste ZERO water waste roadmaps Supply chain strategy updated to deliver Refine local ZERO water waste roadmaps to against 2022 targets at our breweries, roadmap, which sets out our investment and achieve 2022/2030 targets including investments and action plans EXAMPLES OF OUR ACTIONS action plan to achieve the target, with a focus Reducing water usage and optimising on new technologies such as the current zero Performance improvements Operational standards for water updated wastewater treatment liquid discharge projects at four of our Indian Implement best practice to reduce water to reflect our efficiency efforts and Working to protect shared water locations. consumption promote best practice resources in high-risk areas Six postdoctoral students assigned Carlsberg Young Scientists Community specific research tasks at Carlsberg Establish community of young scientists focused Research Laboratory within e.g. water on developing solutions to achieve our 2030 purification technology and advanced water targets wastewater treatment Fully Partially Not achieved achieved achieved CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ZERO WATER WASTE 19 Our Ritsona brewery in Greece reduced its not solve water scarcity issues – particularly CROSS-CUTTING SDGs relative water consumption by 16% in 2018, by around our high-risk sites. Consequently, we EXAMPLES OF OUR SDG ACTIONS implementing best practice from our Carlsberg have committed to partner to safeguard shared Operational Manual. Implemented solutions water resources in these areas, and we are included leak reductions on filling lines and delighted to have entered our first such optimisation of the process cleaning in brewing partnership, with WWF Denmark. and packaging. We are currently working with WWF to develop ISSUES AND RESPONSES 2018 a strategy in this area, and we look forward to Water samples obtained by a third-party sharing more about this, and other specific media centre in 2018 showed biological projects, during 2019. Scarce water resources and oxygen demand (BOD) levels in the river access to water are major surrounding Gorkha Brewery in Nepal to be SDG TARGETS challenges facing the planet right now. above acceptable levels. This prompted an These are only being heightened by 17.16 Enhance the global partnership for immediate internal investigation into the climate change and the resulting change sustainable development, complemented in weather patterns. Action is needed to efficiency of the brewery’s wastewater ACTIONS by multi-stakeholder partnerships. protect nature and communities in hightreatment plant, which concluded that it was TOWARDS ZERO 2019 17.17 Encourage and promote effective risk areas – both now and in the future. not the source of the elevated levels, and that public, public-private and civil society We look forward to collaborating with the plant is meeting our requirements and local Carlsberg to help deliver on this action.” partnerships. standards. Implement actions from roadmaps to achieve Bø Øksnebjerg higher water efficiency and conservation EXAMPLES OF OUR ACTIONS Secretary General, WWF Denmark Our further, wider investigation identified Partnering with NGOs, such as WWF potential causes as the low rate of river flow Denmark, and suppliers to develop during low season as well as the distribution of Explore new technologies for cutting-edge water reuse and recycling innovations wet spent grains to farmers near the brewery. Establishing the Carlsberg Young To improve river flow, we conducted dredging Scientists Community to conduct carbon and also changed the distribution of the wet Conduct projects in water-stressed areas to and water research spent grains to avoid the risk of nutrient-rich protect shared water resources and improve local water management Partnering with retail stores, bars and run-off reaching the river. restaurants to tackle underage drinking Compliance and adhering to our operational Ensure that wastewater discharge standards are up to date to ensure compliance globally standards is absolutely key. We constantly strive to proactively improve our standards and remediate any concerns or issues raised. PARTNERSHIP WITH WWF While we know that reducing water usage at our breweries is an important step for protecting local water resources, this alone will CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ZERO WATER WASTE 20 86% of Western European packaging now provides information on ingredients and nutritional values per 100 ml. Consumers have a right to know what is in our beers, and we are proud to show them, which is why we will continue to roll this out across all regions through to 2022. LEARN MORE ON OUR WEBSITE www.carlsberggroup.com/sustainability/ actions-towards-zero ZERO IRRESPONSIBLE DRINKING ZERO Irresponsible Drinking ZERO CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ZERO IRRESPONSIBLE DRINKING 21 IRRESPONSIBLE DRINKING When people get together, our beers are enjoyed in moments of enjoyment and relaxation. Sometimes, however, irresponsible drinking takes place. While the issues and causes are complex, we are working with partners to encourage a healthier drinking culture. Change is happening. The World Health Organization (WHO) reports significant declines in regular and risky drinking patterns in the EU since 2002. These include prevalence of drunkenness, early initiation of alcohol consumption and binge drinking, with improvements particularly noticeable in the Nordics and the UK.3 However, major challenges remain, and improving further will require joint efforts from many different stakeholders. While consumers make their own decisions about how they consume our beers, we can support them in making smart choices. Our approach to this consists of enabling, informing and encouraging responsible choice, as detailed on page 22. We use campaigns to target the biggest issues in each market. In some, drinkCARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ZERO IRRESPONSIBLE DRINKING 22 driving is the greatest challenge; in others, it is drink-drive and not to drink when underage or appealing to minors and never placing ads ZERO IRRESPONSIBLE DRINKING underage or binge drinking. So by working with pregnant. unless at least 70% of the audience is of legal EXAMPLES OF OUR SDG ACTIONS local partners, we pinpoint the key behaviour drinking age. to change, and do this at point of sale, during In 2018, we exceeded our 2017 commitment consumption moments and across our to include information on ingredients and Digital platforms have never been more marketing communications. nutritional values on 80% of packaging in significant, so in order to achieve our 2022 Western Europe, reaching 86%. So together target for responsible drinking messaging, we An advisory group of behavioural experts from with other brewers, we are voluntarily listing are implementing a new industry standard, the anthropology to health and psychology is ingredients and calories per 100 ml in Digital Guiding Principles (DGPs). These helping to design our activities to improve accordance with general EU requirements for principles extend marketing codes to digital effectiveness. In 2018, the group made two foodstuffs. Consumers have a right to know platforms, with particular focus on preventing proposals aimed at raising awareness and what is in our beers, and we are proud to show exposure of minors to alcohol-related measuring people’s choices by analysing the them where they expect to find it – on our advertising, using measures such as age-gating SDG TARGETS effect of alcohol intake and the availability of packaging. We will therefore continue to roll to verify legal drinking age, preventing the 3.5 Strengthen the prevention and alcohol-free options. We are reviewing these this out across all regions through to 2022, and forwarding of advertisements to minors, and treatment of substance abuse, proposals and will implement related pilots on hope that other brewers, as well as wine and including responsible drinking messages across including harmful use of alcohol. a market level while we document the effect of spirits producers, will follow this lead. brand channels. 3.6 By 2020, halve the number of the efforts on behaviour. global deaths and injuries from Marketing communication In the first half of 2018, we participated in the road traffic accidents. ENCOURAGING RESPONSIBLE Because compliance requirements vary across second global independent auditing process of CONSUMPTION markets, our own internal regulatory system the European Advertising Standards Alliance EXAMPLES OF OUR ACTIONS Packaging ensures strict global controls for advertising (EASA). It reported a steep rise in compliance Applying responsible drinking 96% of our products now carry responsible placement and contents. These include never for audited channels, from 13% in 2017 to messaging across our packaging drinking messages advising consumers not to using models under 25 years of age, never around 60%. We subsequently accelerated our and brand communications Implementing standards on digital platforms to prevent exposure of content to minors Growing availability of alcohol-free brews Installing alcolocks in company cars CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ZERO IRRESPONSIBLE DRINKING 23 efforts, ensuring that DGPs were in place for Preventing underage drinking approximately 85% of local channels for our Our beers are for consumption by people above global brands by the end of the year. the legal drinking age, so we are working hard to prevent sales to younger people. Our 2022 While we have made good progress in target is for 100% of our markets to run implementing the DGPs, their infancy means partnerships to support responsible that much monitoring is required by our central consumption. To this end, we are partnering team to ensure implementation across our with retail stores, bars and restaurants to markets. We will continue to do this as they implement our approach of informing, enabling become established and second nature to our and encouraging responsible drinking. marketers. WHAT WE SAID 2017 WHAT WE DID 2018 PREVENTING UNDERAGE BEER Number of consumers (GBRD) More than 70 million consumers reached SALES IN UKRAINE Reach 40 million consumers during Global Beer Responsibility Day (GBRD) through local market campaigns Digital Guiding Principles (DGPs) In 2018, Carlsberg Ukraine tackled In addition, two leading psychologists DGPs implemented across Ensure that the six standards within the DGPs are approximately 85% of local channels for underage drinking on Global Beer mentored parents on how to talk to their implemented across all our brand digital channels our global brands to safeguard people below the legal drinking age Responsibility Day, 14 September, teenage children about the importance of targeting shop assistants and parents in not drinking alcohol while underage. A an effort to raise awareness of the issue. Facebook page attracted more than 21 Concept initiatives million visits over a four-month period. Develop and execute initial initiatives Two concept initiatives developed to be recommended by an independent advisory group tested in the next two years Over 1,600 employees visited 20,000 to promote responsible drinking shops to talk about the dangers of FIND OUT MORE ON OUR selling alcohol to young people. WEBSITE www.carlsberggroup.com/ Campaigners wore T-shirts featuring sustainability/actions-towards-zero/ retro audio cassettes with the headline “Don’t know how it works? Sorry, no beer for you!” Shop staff were given fun gifts to prompt ID requests. Fully Partially Not achieved achieved achieved CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ZERO IRRESPONSIBLE DRINKING 24 By way of example, an awareness campaign attitudes towards drink-driving, the adoption of by Baltika Breweries involved visiting and legal measures and enhanced enforcement.4 engaging with staff at 90,000 points of sale, while Carlsberg Ukraine covered 20,000 points However, drink-driving remains a problem, and of sale. This represents good progress towards in some markets where there is no drinkour target of year-on-year improvement on driving stigma and sanctioning, it is an even responsible drinking. Read more about this in bigger issue. As in other areas, we are adopting the case story on page 23. our “inform, enable and encourage” approach through dialogue and engagement. We also collaborated with the Danish Partnership for Responsible Alcohol In 2018, we ran a number of initiatives across Consumption. This multi-faceted partnership those markets where drink-driving is a with key Danish stakeholders promotes a particular issue. In China, more than 200,000 responsible alcohol culture in Denmark, with consumers engaged in dialogue about specific focus on preventing underage drinking preventing drink-driving with local police and selling. We ran a trial using electronic IDs forces, car dealers and the media. In and awareness-raising, resulting in a 25% Azerbaijan, a video campaign highlighting the increase in employee confidence when impact on two people’s lives of traffic accidents requesting ID and a strong increase in refused transactions due to lack of certified ID. caused by drink-driving reached over 400,000 people through digital and traditional media. In BIRELL LAUNCHED IN BULGARIA AND Belarus, on Global Beer Responsibility Day the POLAND Despite positive developments, particularly in Alivaria brewery provided free minibuses to some key markets, we are by no means take home bar-goers who lived in remote satisfied. We will therefore continue to focus on areas. May 2018 saw the launch of a new Developed specifically as an alcohol-free preventing underage drinking, as it is a crucial alcohol-free beer, Birell. Initially beer, Birell delivers the same body, area. While strengthening measures at point of Also within our own organisation, we are launched in two styles, Pilsner Lager and mouthfeel, head and, most importantly, sale is effective, a broader whole-society making changes. Since introducing our car Belgian Wit, the brand made its debut in great taste that consumers expect from approach is required to address this challenge. policy in 2017, all newly purchased company Bulgaria and Poland, ahead of a further regular beer, just without the alcohol. cars are equipped with alcolocks to prevent roll-out planned for 2020. PREVENTING DRINK-DRIVING staff from driving if they are over the legal VISIT BIRELL’S WEBSITE For many years, we have been working alcohol limit. So far in Western Europe, 24% of The new AFB was developed in response www.birell.com worldwide with key partners such as the police, our cars have alcolocks installed. to strong consumer demand following bars and restaurants to raise awareness of the continuous category growth over the issue of drink-driving. past 10 years. It meets the needs of aspirational consumers wanting a In a 2018 report, the European Transport greater choice of alcohol-free options Safety Council, a long-standing partner of the without compromising on taste. brewing industry, announced fewer road deaths attributed to alcohol, citing changing public CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ZERO IRRESPONSIBLE DRINKING 25 ALCOHOL-FREE BREWS ENCOURAGING A POSITIVE DRINKING Alcohol-free brews (AFB) can offer a welcome CULTURE alternative to traditional beers, particularly on Our brands have an important role to play in occasions where alcohol is not an appropriate shaping a better alcohol culture, which is why choice. A key target for us is 100% availability we use their channels to run dedicated of AFB by 2022. That means we are working responsibility campaigns for consumers that towards market-wide distribution, providing communicate in relevant, targeted ways. Many options for consumers who want to enjoy a brands do so already, with campaigns such as refreshing beer but, for example, want to drink Tuborg’s “Drink With Respect” in Denmark, less alcohol or have to drive. Kronenbourg’s “Consommer Avec Modération” in France and Carlsberg’s “Celebrate People want a broader set of We are making good progress towards this Responsibly” in Malaysia encouraging choices for different occasions target. Availability is already over 80% in some responsible choices during moments of and to know what goes into our beers. markets, such as France, Switzerland and consumption through dialogue and That is why we are expanding our portfolio of alcohol-free brews and have Sweden, and we are seeing strong progress engagement. committed to providing ingredient and where we have launched new AFB brands, ACTIONS nutritional information per 100 ml on our such as Birell in Bulgaria, which you can read Our activities are always grounded in the local TOWARDS ZERO 2019 packaging.” more about on page 24. context and challenges, so we need to be flexible in our approach while staying onJessica Spence Chief Commercial Officer, Expanding our AFB portfolio and availability brand. In Finland, for example, during Continue to implement and measure Carlsberg Group gives consumers more options in all sorts of “midsummer season” people enjoy our products compliance with Digital Guiding Principles situations, not just when driving, but also when – and in a country of a thousand lakes they cycling or sailing. In Denmark, for example, often do so near water. With this in mind, the where cycling is the most common form of Finnish team devised messages for the Karhu Accelerate the formation of global and local partnerships for responsible drinking transport, one in four bicycle-related accidents brand, such as “Do not let Karhu turn your involves alcohol. So this has been the focus of boat upside down”, to raise awareness of the an ongoing campaign to raise awareness risks of combining alcohol with sailing and Expand our global offering of alcohol-free among Danish consumers. swimming. brews (AFB) In Sweden, Carlsberg Sverige commissioned an Changing cultural norms does not happen “alcohol-free beer boat” to deliver alcohol-free overnight. Our challenge is to ensure that our beers to sailors on the waters of the Stockholm consumer messages hit the right tone. Rather Archipelago. The initiative raised awareness of than sounding preachy and negative, they the risks of drinking while sailing by offering should focus on nudging people to make consumers an alternative, great-tasting beer responsible choices and foster dialogue. option. In addition, Sweden became the first country to launch Carlsberg Alcohol Free on draught. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ZERO IRRESPONSIBLE DRINKING 26 “Always follow work at height procedures” is one of our five Life Saving Rules. Having rolled out training in the rules globally during 2018, this initiative has deeply impacted our organisation. LEARN MORE ON OUR WEBSITE www.carlsberggroup.com/sustainability/ actions-towards-zero ZERO ACCIDENTS CULTURE ZERO accidents culture ZERO CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ZERO ACCIDENTS CULTURE 27 ACCIDENTS CULTURE Protecting the lives and health of our people is a fundamental value for us. We aim to achieve a ZERO accidents culture by making health & safety top of mind at all times and by ensuring compliance with our rules and standards. So how are we creating a lasting ZERO accidents culture? It starts with leaders setting an example. But it works best when our people on the ground are trained to observe rules and procedures, and empowered to continually identify risks and propose solutions themselves, thereby enabling us to prevent accidents and, if they do occur, learn from them. 2018 PERFORMANCE In 2017, we achieved a significant reduction in accident rates – and in 2018 we sustained this performance. We are focused on continuing to reduce accidents year-on-year. The Group lost-time accident rate (LTAR) in 2018 was 4.3. Specifically, the number of employee lost-time accidents (LTAs) went CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ZERO ACCIDENTS CULTURE 28 down to 169 from 183 in 2017, while the ZERO ACCIDENTS CULTURE number contractor LTAs was 42 in 2018. EXAMPLES OF OUR SDG ACTIONS Despite the sustained accident rate, our performance in 2018 was not good enough, as we recorded three fatalities: a subcontractor in a construction accident, a brewery worker in a boiler accident and a sales employee in a traffic collision. We are deeply saddened by these tragic accidents, which underline the need for day-to-day vigilance to create a ZERO accidents culture. SDG TARGETS INCREASED OBSERVATIONS 8.8 Protect labour rights and promote In 2018, we saw a significant increase in safe and secure working environments observations reported by our employees, which for all workers. enabled us to implement a number of preventative actions. This is a positive sign of EXAMPLES OF OUR ACTIONS improved engagement and progress towards Embedding a ZERO accidents culture in making health & safety top of mind for all our CREATING IMPACT THROUGH employees and contractors through people, and also testament to an improved REAL-LIFE STORIES communication and initiatives safety culture. However, only a combination of Training leaders to model desired leadership, consistent communication and behaviours, communicate consistently safety routines will deliver progress towards In Russia, the life of technician Denis Association of Communication Directors and engage with teams on health our ZERO accidents target. Smirnov was tragically changed by a and Corporate Publishing. & safety workplace accident at our brewery in St Petersburg in 2004. The documentary Real-life case stories and engaging media Blade was created to tell his dramatic content help to embed Together Towards story. ZERO and a ZERO accidents culture. Released on the World Day for Health and Safety at Work, Denis’s true story creates awareness of the importance of following health & safety rules. It was named best health & safety video in a competition run by the Russian CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ZERO ACCIDENTS CULTURE 29 This is a day-by-day mission that is being In 2019, the journey continues with additional We have already reached over 1,500 leaders embraced by all levels of the organisation. actions that will ensure consistent embedding and we are targeting 1,200 more in 2019. This of this programme in our ways of working and will have an important impact on making LIFE SAVING RULES a sustained level of compliance. health & safety top of mind and allow us to In 2018, we rolled out our Life Saving Rules deliver on our commitment to reach all leaders programme across the business. Built on LEADERSHIP TRAINING by 2020. industry experience, this programme focuses on Our programme advanced significantly in 2018, the specific areas where we have learned that preparing our leaders to better model desired people’s lives can be endangered if rules are behaviours, communicate consistently and not followed correctly. engage with their teams on health & safety. Nothing is more important than This initiative has deeply impacted the the health & safety of our people organisation. We have rolled out a companyand no task is so important that we wide training programme on the basics of the cannot take time to do it safely. The challenge is to build a ZERO accidents Life Saving Rules. And we have started culture across our business, whereby all delivering detailed communication packages for 40,000+ employees are engaged to lead, each of the rules to ensure that staff fully WHAT WE SAID 2017 WHAT WE DID 2018 identify and eliminate risks and live our understand the requirements and are equipped safety practices.” to comply with them. Philip A. Hodges Leadership LIFE SAVING RULES: More than 1,500 people managers EVP Group Supply Chain Continue to roll out the health & safety trained in sales, marketing and supply Carlsberg Group #1. Always follow traffic rules (on site and on leadership training to reach all managers globally chain departments by 2020 the road) #2. Always follow lock out/tag out procedures Life Saving Rules Life Saving Rules initiative launched #3. Never remove, bypass or impair safeguards Roll out the Life Saving Rules programme globally. All relevant employees have globally, including communication and training, or interlocks received basic training and performance followed by a consistent compliance verification #4. Always follow work at height procedures is consistently tracked process #5. Always follow confined space entry procedures Fully Partially Not achieved achieved achieved CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ZERO ACCIDENTS CULTURE 30 PREVENTING RECURRENCE OF ADDRESSING CHALLENGES ACCIDENTS On-site contractors: To ensure that third-party In 2018, most accidents were a result of slips, contractors working on our premises are kept trips and falls, traffic collisions, and being safe, we are introducing a new contractor struck by or bumping into equipment and management programme with improved obstacles. routines for service provider selection, on-site induction and supervision, and safe work To prevent recurrence of accidents, we planning. investigate them and share conclusions and preventative actions with all markets. In certain Safe driving: We have started addressing driving cases, learnings are captured in safety alerts risks with our Life Saving Rule #1 package and with mandatory actions for all sites. Those will deliver a more comprehensive Driver actions are tracked for completion and Training Programme in 2019. sustained compliance. Reducing injuries in sales: We cannot control the hazards in off-site work environments, but we ACTIONS can make our staff more aware and better TOWARDS ZERO 2019 prepared to avoid slips, trips and falls and other NEPAL ENLISTS injuries. We have started rolling out a dedicated package comprising a safety kit of protective CELEBRITY HELP equipment (anti-slip shoes, cut-resistant Continue to roll out H&S Leadership training and reach at least 65% of people managers gloves, safety cutter, reflective vest) and awareness tips on the most common hazards. Continue to implement the Life Saving Rules by Gorkha Brewery in Nepal featured upgrading Group standards and ensuring Jitu Nepal, a popular actor, in an compliance through self-and independent assessments internal communications campaign to help cultivate a ZERO accidents Introduce a new Safe Driving training culture. The campaign consisted of programme for the sales organisation safety-related posters and a series of shareable videos. Implement the new contractor management Following a health & safety programme across the organisation assessment of the brewery, key campaign messages were identified to encourage safe workplace practices, and then delivered by Jitu Nepal in an engaging way. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ZERO ACCIDENTS CULTURE 31 We are working to ensure that a strong ethical approach is at the core of every area of our business. DOWNLOAD OUR POLICIES ON OUR WEBSITE www.carlsberggroup.com/ sustainability/download/download -our-policies RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Responsible Business RESPONSIBLE CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 32 BUSINESS LIVE BY OUR COMPASS Anti-Bribery & Corruption Policy Launched in 2016 and built into SAIL’22, our To outline and explain the prohibitions against Live by our Compass programme continues to bribery and corruption in all our operations, provide detailed guidance on ethical behaviour, highlight the specific compliance requirements emphasising the importance of integrity at all relating to these prohibitions, and reinforce our levels of our organisation. We reinforce this commitment to conducting business globally with risk assessments, third-party screening, with the highest level of honesty and integrity. compliance training and market audits. Competition Law Policy To help ensure compliance with competition As part of this, we are implementing a control laws wherever we operate, we are building a framework for all legal compliance areas, high level of awareness of our Competition Law including competition law, data protection, and Policy through training programmes. In 2018, anti-bribery and corruption. Special attention a global e-learning programme in competition has been paid to ensuring compliance with the law targeted 15-20,000 employees, supported EU’s General Data Protection Regulation by face-to-face training for relevant (GDPR). employees. We have clear policies in place and focus, for Environmental Policy example, on building a high level of awareness To prevent and control potential risks to the and a strong tone from our top-60 leadership environment, mitigating the impact of climate team. change, supported by our ambitious targets in Together Towards ZERO. Our policies include: EFFECTIVE COMMUNICATION Labour & Human Rights Policy For a global business with more than 40,000 To define the labour & human rights standards people, it is a challenge ensuring that every to which all employees in the Carlsberg Group employee knows where to find our 29 policies are entitled, irrespective of the country in which and 200+ manuals. For this reason, in they work. December 2018 we launched a single global online platform covering all codes, policies and CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 33 manuals, accompanied by a comprehensive same groups in Eastern Europe, reaching 90% communications package. with our e-learning module or other training activities. We believe it is more effective to WHAT WE SAID 2017 WHAT WE DID 2018 SPEAKING UP target our activity for greater impact on In 2018, 95 suspected matters of misconduct higher-risk areas rather than taking a lighter Live by our Compass were reported through our Speak Up system – and broader approach. Learning was backed up a significant increase from 2017, when we Risk assessment Global risk assessment carried out, by a manual offering comprehensive insight Conduct market risk assessment on key mapping the key risks by market on a received 53 reports. We believe this increase is and clarity on interpreting, using and compliance risks in all markets heat map due to the continued awareness-raising of the implementing our Labour & Human Rights Speak Up programme. This is fulfilling its Policy. Third-party screening New Third Party Screening process purpose and leading to greater transparency. created in consultation with 60+ internal Update protocols for screening business partners stakeholders and incorporated into the and third parties In 2018, we prioritised our work on ensuring Anti-Bribery & Corruption Manual When a suspected matter of misconduct is compliant behaviour among specific employee reported through the system, we aim to review Launch of the Speak Up Manual and groups with a higher risk of compliance issues, Speak Up Misconduct Investigation Manual and close it as soon as possible. In 2018, 27% Promote Speak Up facilities through awareness and therefore did not fully meet our aim of campaign supported by communication material of the matters reported through the system implementing initiatives to continuously identify and other awareness activities were upheld, resulting in sanctions varying and account for human rights impacts. In 2019, Focus directed onto providing antifrom verbal reprimands to dismissal. Compliance training further steps will be taken towards a Develop compliance training curriculum for bribery & corruption (ABC) training via Train the Trainer sessions for legal systematic approach to assessing human rights employees tailored to functional risk level counsels LABOUR & HUMAN RIGHTS impacts in selected areas. We are committed to providing a safe, healthy Market audits Monitoring of Live by our Compass programme moved to 2019 in order to and empowering environment for our people, TRAINING Conduct in-market audits in all regions to focus on ABC compliance following goalways acting in a fair and responsible manner Our “Triple A Leader” initiative develops a monitor effectiveness of the Live by our Compass live of the global Live by our Compass programme with respect for global standards and common understanding of good leadership platform in December 2018 guidelines. among mid-level leaders. It aims to raise Labour & human rights competences while also focusing on building This is guided by our behavioural framework, a feedback culture and developing our people. Training E-learning and other training initiatives Eastern Europe: reach 90% of line managers, HR rolled out to 90% of line managers, HR Triple A, with the As standing for alignment, and legal professionals through e-learning and and legal professionals across Eastern accountability and action. It defines how we RESPONSIBLE SOURCING face-to-face training in selected markets Europe region should work together across the organisation, Our company works with numerous suppliers Onboarding Include training and awareness in local Onboarding e-learning made available including treating people in a fair and equal and business partners from production to retail. onboarding programmes for people managers for people managers in eight markets way. Their integrity is key to our sustainability and HR professionals utilising new HR system that are “live” on the new HR platform performance. platform IMPLEMENTING OUR LABOUR & HUMAN Initial steps taken to consider a framework Human rights impact initiatives RIGHTS POLICY For this reason, we are always working to for systematic human rights methodology Implement initiatives to continuously identify and In 2017, we began rolling out our Labour & and impact assessment. Ongoing identify and understand any issues, extending account for human rights impact. Carry out monitoring of local market compliance Human Rights Policy to people managers, HR ongoing monitoring of local market compliance our influence and ensuring that our value chain with labour & human rights conducted and legal professionals in Asia. This continued meets our high standards. These are set out in during 2018, when we primarily focused on the our Supplier & Licensee Code of Conduct for Fully Partially Not achieved achieved achieved CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 34 labour & human rights, environment, health & QUALITY AND SAFETY OF OUR RESPONDING TO QUALITY ISSUES safety and business ethics. Compliance is vital PRODUCTS We are rigorous in our attempts to identify any – and this is measured in our supplier Ultimately, across the Carlsberg Group we are quality issues at the root-cause stage, long before any products leave our sites. It is very ACTIONS relationship management programme as well all about delivering high-quality beers and rare for a quality issue to arise after a product TOWARDS ZERO 2019 as our integrated quality audits. beverages. It is our top priority to get this right every time, ensuring that our products are has left our site, and we have measures in Live by our Compass In 2018, we continued our membership of always safe and of high quality. place to minimise the consequences if that Roll out the legal risk and control framework SEDEX (Suppliers Ethical Data Exchange) and should happen. In 2018, we recalled one through awareness programmes, e-learning, product, in Denmark, due to a quality risk. face-to-face training and monitoring are evaluating our future participation. CONTINUOUSLY RAISING STANDARDS In 2018, we achieved 100% Food Safety Implement the updated Third Party Screening INTEGRATED QUALITY AUDITS System Certification (FSSC) in Western Europe. Less serious issues are dealt with by process and Gift, Entertainment and Donations We carry out regular quality audits to check Six of our 14 sites in Eastern Europe are also withdrawals, where a product is withdrawn Manual. Develop a 2019-2021 monitoring plan for anti-bribery & corruption that each supplier complies with our Code. certified, an additional four sites having from customer inventories before reaching There is a particular focus on those in high-risk obtained certification during 2018. We expect consumers. In 2018, nine withdrawals were Labour & human rights areas who face additional complexities. In to reach 100% across this region in 2019. made, representing progress compared with Revise labour & human rights e-learning and 2018, we carried out 166 such audits, focusing 2017, when there were 11. make it available and mandatory for all new on glass bottles, aluminium cans and malt. Six of our 40 Asian sites have obtained this managers to take through our HR system certification, while 11 sites have ISO 22000 While there is no room for complacency, we platform in selected markets If an issue is revealed, our first response is to certification, two more than in 2017. We will have seen progress thanks to more systematic Implement supporting initiatives to ensure help the supplier achieve compliance, making continue to make progress on certification in processes and an increase in the reporting of compliance with Labour & Human Rights Policy lasting improvements. However, if it is serious, Asia by building the necessary support minor problems during the brewing process, in selected areas we suspend material deliveries. systems. In 2019, we will finalise our roadmap leading to more shared learnings. for achieving this. In addition, our new Supplier Conduct in-market audits in all selected markets to monitor effectiveness of Labour & LOOKING AHEAD Quality Management tool will increase the Human Rights Policy implementation Though it is primarily a quality tool, the rollvisibility of our global supply base and critical out of our new Supplier Quality Management suppliers, moving from a market-by-market tool will enable us to collect environmental, system to a global system that allows for health & safety and sustainability data from quicker action if needed. suppliers. It will be supported by direct upload of documentation by suppliers, which will help us ensure that the latest data is available and regularly revised by suppliers. We will also update the Supplier and Licensee Code of Conduct as part of the revision process for the Live by our Compass programme, continuously reviewing and promoting high ethical standards. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 35 Beer creates value and positively contributes to economies around the world. With a presence in more than 100 countries, we make a significant global economic contribution through our products’ production, distribution and sales – as pictured here in Paris. LEARN MORE ON OUR WEBSITE www.carlsberggroup.com/who-weare/about-the-carlsberg-group/globalpresence/ ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION TO SOCIETY Economic contribution to society ECONOMIC CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION TO SOCIETY 36 CONTRIBUTION TO SOCIETY CREATING JOBS Most work in the breweries, which often provide vital employment in rural areas. We The sale of our products also contributes to induced employment – jobs created in the Through our operations around the world, we support the implementation of SDG 8, Decent THROUGHOUT THE also employ highly skilled people in sales & hospitality (bars, restaurants) and retail work and economic growth, by contributing to VALUE CHAIN marketing, finance, procurement, research & (grocery stores) sectors. economic prosperity, increasing productivity development, logistics and administrative and innovation in the markets 40,000+ EMPLOYEES functions. Taking all these activities into account, the where we operate. In 2018, the Carlsberg Group directly employed economic research consultancy Regioplan more than 40,000 people in our majorityCREATING JOBS IN OTHER SECTORS estimates that in 2018 we created total indirect owned businesses around the world. Our breweries generate a significant number of and induced employment amounting to jobs via suppliers in the agricultural, packaging approximately 472,000 employees, equivalent and logistics sectors, stimulating indirect to more than 11 additional jobs created for employment. every Carlsberg Group employee. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION TO SOCIETY 37 GENERATING VALUE THROUGHOUT THE VALUE CHAIN Added value is defined as the difference between the cost of the goods and services acquired for production and the amount received when the final product is sold on the market. Our network of suppliers, customers in hospitality and retail outlets, and production and sales facilities all add value to the final product, which is sold worldwide to consumers. This added value makes it possible to pay our employees’ wages, cover tax liabilities and reward our lenders and investors. It is also the source of VAT revenues collected by governments in the countries in which we operate. Calculated by Regioplan using a wellrecognised methodology, value added through the production and sale of all Carlsberg Group products worldwide in 2018 amounted to DKK 94bn. Most added value occurred in the hospitality sector. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION TO SOCIETY 38 ECONOMIC VALUE both taxes borne and taxes collected, amounted to DKK 43bn. TOTAL GOVERNMENT REVENUES GENERATED GENERATED AND Our products generate substantial revenues for TOTAL TAX TAXES BORNE governments, support public services and CONTRIBUTION Taxes borne by the Carlsberg Group include direct taxes such as corporate income tax, stimulate economic growth in the countries in which we operate. In addition to our total tax ECONOMIC VALUE social security taxes, environmental taxes and contribution mentioned above, government Economic value generated is a combination of indirect taxes such as excise duties. In 2018, we revenues are also generated in related sectors gross revenue, other income, financial income paid DKK 31bn in taxes, representing 35% of such as agriculture, retail and hospitality. and income included in special items. Our the total economic value generated. contribution is distributed among our According to a well-established methodology, stakeholders through payments to suppliers for TOTAL TAX CONTRIBUTION Regioplan estimates that in 2018 the Carlsberg goods and services, wages to employees, In addition to taxes borne, we also collect taxes Group generated DKK 131bn in government financial expenses to those who provide on behalf of governments in the countries in revenues through direct activities and activities capital, and taxes paid to governments. The which we operate. These include taxes paid on in related industries. Our direct share of total economic value retained is the profit we use to behalf of our employees, VAT and other government revenues was 33%. finance dividends for our shareholders and relevant taxes. In 2018, our collected taxes support future business growth. amounted to DKK 12bn and our total tax contribution amounted to DKK 43bn. In 2018, economic value generated totalled DKK 90bn. Our total tax contribution, including VIEW OUR TAX POLICY www.carlsberggroup.com CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION TO SOCIETY 39 DETAILED OVERVIEW OF ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED AND TOTAL TAX CONTRIBUTION In 2018, the Carlsberg Group generated a total of DKK 90bn in economic value. Total taxes borne by Carlsberg represent 35% of our economic value generated. DATA SUMMARY TABLE CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 DATA AND ASSURANCE 40 ENERGY, CARBON AND WATER 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 General production figures Number of reporting sites 101 110 92 85 85 Beer production (million hl) 107.0 105.4 100.9 97.9 102.2 Soft drinks production (million hl) 13.6 13.9 14.3 14.2 15.6 Total production of beer and soft drinks (million hl)* 120.6 119.3 115.2 112.1 117.8 Malting (kt) 492.0 547.2 311.5 301.3 314.1 Environmental performance data (beer, soft drinks and malt production) Total thermal energy consumption (GWh)* 2,970 2,943 2,481 2,326 2,341 Total electricity consumption (GWh)* 1,012 988 914 869 885 Total CO2 emissions (from direct and indirect fuel consumption) (kt)* (market-based) 982 945 768 698 701 Total CO2 emissions (from direct and indirect fuel consumption) (kt) (location-based) 883 802 801 Total SO2 emissions (tonnes) 1,651 1,695 815 731 509 Total NOx emissions (tonnes) 1,586 1,562 1,163 1,075 1,027 Total water consumption (million m³)* 42.1 41.2 37.7 35.6 37.5 Total wastewater discharged (million m³) 27.2 26.6 24.2 23.0 23,8 Solid waste & by-products Incinerated (kt) 9.3 8.7 5.7 5.1 9.2 To sanitary landfill (kt) 64.6 68.6 56.9 68.6 60.9 Special waste (kt) 0.7 0.7 1.4 0.7 0.4 Recycled (kt) 164.8 189.2 225.5 222.0 162.6 Disposed of for land applications (kt) 173.7 165.9 127.4 117.4 125.1 Other (kt) 21.0 Total solid waste (kt) 434.1 433.1 416.9 413.8 358.3 Brewer’s grains and brewer’s yeast utilised (kt) 1,409.0 1,348.9 1,265.0 1,236.0 1,372.8 * Within PwC’s assurance scope (see PwC’s Assurance Report, pages 60-61). CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 DATA AND ASSURANCE 41 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Relative figures for beer and soft drinks production Thermal energy (kWh/hl)* 21.4 21.2 20.0 19.3 18.3 Electricity (kWh/hl)* 8.0 7.8 7.7 7.6 7.3 Combined energy (thermal and electricity) (kWh/hl)* 29.4 29.0 27.7 26.9 25.6 CO2 emissions (kg CO2/hl)* 7.3 7.0 6.3 5.9 5.6 Water (hl/hl)* 3.4 3.4 3.2 3.1 3.1 Relative figures for malt production Thermal energy (kWh/tonne) 694.1 692.2 489.3 457.9 436.4 Electricity (kWh/tonne) 87.1 84.1 73.2 67.1 65.6 Combined energy (thermal and electricity) (kWh/tonne) 781.1 776.3 562.5 525.0 501.9 CO2 emissions (tonnes CO2/tonne) 0.19 0.18 0.13 0.12 0,11 Water (m³/tonne) 2.3 2.2 1.6 1.5 1.4 Other figures Complaints 93 33 36 32 9 Number of ISO 14001-certified sites 69 74 66 70 76 Number of ISO 50001-certified sites 1 3 4 18 20 Water source split Municipal water 49% 48% 46% 48% 49% Own boreholes 43% 42% 47% 46% 45% Surface water 8% 10% 7% 6% 6% Wastewater destination Public sewer with wastewater treatment 66% 67% 66% 66% 69% On-site treatment, followed by public sewer without wastewater treatment 3% 3% 2% 2% 1% On-site treatment, followed by discharge to river/lake 30% 28% 28% 28% 26% Other 1% 2% 4% 4% 4% Thermal energy mix Natural gas 68.0% 66.1% 71.9% 69.1% 72.9% Coal 14.9% 15.6% 7.0% 5.9% 3.5% District heating 6.8% 6.4% 7.1% 7.6% 7.4% Heavy fuel 3.4% 2.8% 3.1% 3.6% 3.0% Renewable energy 5.2% 6.9% 8.2% 9.8% 11.8% Light fuel 1.1% 1.2% 1.4% 3.0% 1.4% Other 0.6% 1.0% 1.3% 1.0% 0% * Within PwC’s assurance scope (see PwC’s Assurance Report, pages 60-61). CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 DATA AND ASSURANCE 42 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total CO2 emissions from refrigerants HFC-based refrigerants (kt CO2)* 12.9 14.9 9.8 6.8 2.9 Together Towards ZERO carbon baseline Absolute emissions (kt CO2) (Together Towards ZERO 2015 baseline) 846 777 704 704* Renewable electricity Percentage of electricity from renewable sources 41 43 45** 46* Sites using coal Number of sites using coal 31 17 12 6* Packaging mix Cans 26.1% 26.6% 27.4% 28.6% 29.9% RGB 33.7% 33.7% 31.5% 29.8% 28% NRGB 8.2% 9.2% 9.5% 11.6% 12.3% R-PET 1.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% PET 22.5% 23.0% 23.0% 20.8% 20.3% Kegs 6.6% 6.4% 7.6% 7.8% 7.7% Bulk 1.3% 1.0% 0.9% 1.2% 1.4% Other 0.4% 0.1% 0.1% 0.2% 0.4% * Within PwC’s assurance scope (see PwC’s Assurance Report, pages 60-61). ** Restated. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 DATA AND ASSURANCE 43 HEALTH & SAFETY 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Figures for Production*** Number of lost-time accidents* 156 114 105 73 59 Lost-time accident rate* 9.1 6.2 7.0 5.1 4.5 Number of lost days* 2,207 1,911 1,281 1,219 1,393 Days lost rate* 128.8 104.5 85.6 85.6 105.4 Figures for Logistics*** Number of lost-time accidents* 150 140 109 62 48 Lost-time accident rate* 17.4 15.5 13.8 8.2 7.5 Number of lost days* 2,201 2,511 1,619 1,128 1,393 Days lost rate* 254.8 277.2 205.1 149.5 218.0 Figures for Sales & Marketing*** Number of lost-time accidents* 40 52 95 43 58 Lost-time accident rate* 2.8 3.3 6.2 2.5 3.5 Number of lost days* 613 565 2,787 961 1,545 Days lost rate* 43.2 36.2 183.0 56.3 94.1 Figures for Administration*** Number of lost-time accidents* 6 6 2 5 4 Lost-time accident rate* 1.3 1.4 0.6 1.4 1.2 Number of lost days* 97 43 30 57 271 Days lost rate* 21.3 9.7 8.2 16.3 82.0 Figures for the Group*** Number of lost-time accidents* 352 312 311 183 169 Lost-time accident rate* 7.9 6.6 7.4 4.3 4.3 Number of lost days* 5,118 5,030 5,717 3,365 4,602 Days lost rate* 115.0 106.2 136.9 79.4 117.0 Fatalities (Carlsberg Group employees on and off site, contractors and members of public on site) 6 5 5 1 3 Number of lost-time accidents, contractors* 42 Number of lost-time accidents, members of public* 0 Lost-time accidents – department split Percentage in Production 44 37 34 40 35 Percentage in Logistics 43 45 35 34 28 Percentage in Sales & Marketing and Administration 13 19 31 26 37 * Within PwC’s assurance scope (see PwC’s Assurance Report, pages 60-61). *** Carlsberg Group employees. For Days Lost and Days Lost Rate for 2018, please note that the indicator definitions have changed; see page 54. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 DATA AND ASSURANCE 44 RESPONSIBLE DRINKING AND MARKETING COMMUNICATION 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Percentage of companies implementing responsible drinking initiatives 62 78 75 90 76**** Percentage of fermented produced volume carrying responsible drinking guiding symbols and/or equivalent text* 67 54 85 97 96 Percentage of total beer volume that lists nutritional information* 65 Percentage of total beer volume that lists ingredient information* 85 Number of responsible drinking campaigns 115 239 194 248 159 Number of reported incidents of non-compliance with the Marketing Communication Policy 6 4 4 0 2 Number of sales, marketing and innovation employees trained through the marketing communication e-learning module 490 N/A N/A 502 0 LIVE BY OUR COMPASS 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total number of employees trained in the Code of Ethics & Conduct 4,336 34,500 2,911 Percentage of companies that have implemented third-party screening procedures 68 84 84 95 100 Number of incidents reported through our Speak Up system 30 87 55 53 95 * Within PwC’s assurance scope (see PwC’s Assurance Report, pages 60-61). **** 28 out of 37 companies. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 DATA AND ASSURANCE 45 LABOUR & HUMAN RIGHTS 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total workforce (FTE*****) 46,832 47,464 42,062 41,430 40,837 Percentage of employees by employment contract Permanent employees 82 88 86 89 86 Temporary employees 18 12 14 11 14 Percentage of employees by employment type Full-time 94 98 93 93 94 Part-time 6 2 7 7 6 Percentage of employees by employment category Total presidents + top managers 2.1 1.5 1.5 1.4 1.8 Total managers 11.5 12.3 12.6 13.2 13.5 Total specialists 40.9 39.9 36.7 36.9 38.5 Total workers 45.5 46.3 49.2 48.5 46.2 Percentage of employees by gender Male 72 72 69 71 68 Female 28 28 31 29 32 Percentage of management level by gender Male 76 78 77 76 75 Female 24 22 23 24 25 Percentage of employees by age Younger than 18 0.02 0.19 0.11 0.13 0.02 19-29 23 22 23 25 23 30-39 34 33 33 35 35 40-49 27 29 27 25 26 50 or older 16 16 17 15 16 ***** FTE data from Carlsberg Group Annual Report 2018. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 DATA AND ASSURANCE 46 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Employee turnover Employee turnover percentage 15 19 21 24 19 Employee turnover percentage by age Younger than 18 19-29 36 32 31 31 36 30-39 31 33 34 38 35 40-49 18 20 20 18 16 50 or older 15 15 15 15 13 Employee turnover percentage by gender Male 72 71 69 63 70 Female 28 29 31 37 30 Hours of training per employee Average for the Group 15 15 15 15 16 Collective bargaining Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 71 73 74 74 72 Policy implementation status Percentage of labour & human rights procedures and processes implemented as average for the Group 94 92 92 90 94 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Number of integrated quality audits 101 171 182 154 166 REPORTING PROCESS CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 DATA AND ASSURANCE 47 AND SCOPE REPORTING APPROACH AND CRITERIA assessment from 2016, water risk assessment COMMENTS ON BOUNDARY SETTING Breweries from previous company entities have SCOPE OF THE SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING work undertaken with WWF, the UN’s The following sites have been closed/sold since been moved into the new reporting entities. This report covers the relevant and significant Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), carbon 2017 and have therefore been excluded from social, ethical and environmental issues for the footprinting analyses undertaken with the the 2018 reporting: ENSURING DATA QUALITY financial year 1 January to 31 December 2018. Carbon Trust and guidance from the advisory In gathering information about our It gives our stakeholders an overview of our group helping us with responsible drinking. LITHUANIA: sustainability performance, we applied the performance in these areas, complementing Svyturys Utenos Alus, Klaipeda widely used principles of balance, clarity, our Annual Report, which primarily covers our BOUNDARY SETTING accuracy, reliability, timeliness and financial and economic performance. Entities included in this report’s performance The following sites have been added to the comparability. Please find additional data include majority-owned subsidiaries, 2018 reporting scope: information on each of the topics below: For many years, we have been using the which are defined as companies that the standards of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Carlsberg Group directly or indirectly owns, in INDIA: BALANCE as guidance for our sustainability work. For this which it controls more than 50% of the voting Carlsberg India: Mysuru Karnataka brewery We are committed to communicating honestly 2018 report, the GRI G4 Sustainability rights or that it otherwise controls. and openly about our performance, both when Reporting Guidelines were applied in preparing The following companies have been it has improved and when it has not. Our aim is the underlying data and framing our reporting Joint ventures and companies over which the renamed/restructured since 2017: to provide our stakeholders with sufficient principles; however, the Carlsberg Group no Carlsberg Group does not have the opportunity information about our company for them to longer applies GRI-specific disclosures. to exercise management control are not CHINA: form their own judgements concerning the covered. However, we work with our partners “Carlsberg Brewery (Guangdong Ltd)” and Carlsberg Group’s position and role in the We receive recommendations on our routinely to ensure ongoing focus on “Carlsberg Beer Enterprise Management societies in which we operate. sustainability activities and reporting from our sustainability issues. If a majority-owned entity (Chongqing) Company Limited, Chongqing assurance provider, PwC, while we ourselves is acquired during the financial year, it will be (“Eastern Assets”)” have been combined into a CLARITY routinely analyse global megatrends, take part included in the following year’s report. reporting entity named “CIB & TMH”. We strive to make our sustainability reporting in industry initiatives and assess the activities of accessible and easy to read for anyone, but we our competitors. This ensures that we fully The economic contribution section of the report “Chongqing Brewery Group”, “Chongqing are always open to feedback about the way we understand the key issues and keep up to date. follows the boundary setting of the Annual Jianiang Beer Co., Ltd“ and “Chongqing communicate on our material issues. Report, which includes non-controlling joint Brewery Guoren Co., Ltd.” have been combined The report focuses on the topics that we ACCURACY AND RELIABILITY ventures and other associates. into one company reporting entity called consider most important to our business and Since 2009, our dedicated sustainability “CBC”. society. It is based on a range of inputs, reporting system has helped us collect data including, but not restricted to, the materiality from local sites and consolidate this at Group CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 DATA AND ASSURANCE 48 level. Every year, we have improved the TIMELINESS DEFINITIONS indicator definitions for our performance Internally, we report our sustainability data During the reporting process, we identified REPORT REFERENCES indicators in order to help our entities report with varying degrees of frequency, depending some differences in the interpretation of certain accurately and reliably. on the nature of the data. Where necessary, indicators at site level. However, we do not feel we revise the reporting frequency in order to these differences significantly impact the 1. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. strike the right balance between obtaining the validity of the reported data. Within the Special Report: Global Warming of 1.5 °C. However, it is a challenge to obtain a complete correct data and observing appropriate time environmental data, any reference to 2018. and fully aligned overview of all our data that, at the same time, takes into account local intervals for reporting on it. Annual data “production site” or “site” refers to sites where gathering and external reporting are aligned the Carlsberg Group produces beer, soft drinks 2. UN Water. World Water Development procedures for data gathering. For this reason, with financial data collection, following the or malt, as well as combinations of these, and Report 2018. we are continuously working on improving data accuracy. Since 2009, we have been using an calendar year. the water and energy consumption at these sites. The term “production site” does not 3. World Health Organization. Fact sheet on international provider of sustainability software COMPARABILITY include off-site consumption such as logistics alcohol consumption, alcohol-attributable solutions to systematise and collect our data. On pages 49-55, we have published the and off-site administration. Definitions for harm and alcohol policy responses in European This gives us a higher degree of control over definitions we use for the key indicators in the environmental indicators and health & safety Union Member States, Norway and the data-gathering process, helps local report, which are also the data points on which are available on pages 49-55. Switzerland. 2018. companies compare data year-on-year, and enables instant consistency checks during the PwC provides assurance. TARGETS World Health Organization. Global status data-gathering phase. In 2018, we upgraded We include three or five-year data in all cases We communicate through actions and targets: report on alcohol and health. 2018. to a newer version of the software that offers several user improvements. As well as the where a comparable 3or 5-year data history • One-year short-term actions towards ZERO is available. • 2022 targets Danish Health Authority. Sundhedsstyrelsens 7 system, we use internal data management • 2030 targets udmeldinger om alkohol (Danish Health systems to collect information such as Authority's 7 recommendations about alcohol). employee headcounts. An additional tool used These have been developed by each of the 2018. to improve our sustainability data is the Carlsberg Operational Manual (COM), which area owners in cooperation with Group Sustainability and may be adjusted following Portman Group. New research shows that 76% sets out details regarding processes and best significant changes in the business, such as of people are now drinking at, or below, low practices. major acquisitions and divestments. As far as risk levels. 2019. Based on the survey Alcohol possible, we include such changes by applying Alternatives. YouGov on behalf of Portman PwC has been appointed to provide scenario planning to our target-setting process. Group. December 2018. independent assurance regarding selected economic, environmental and safety indicators. 4. European Transport Safety Council. Progress In each section of the report, we indicate which in Reducing Drink Driving in Europe. 2018. data has been assured. For further details, see pages 60-61. INDICATOR DEFINITIONS CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 DATA AND ASSURANCE 49 Here, we explain the indicators we use to measure our sustainability performance. We define them and clarify their scope and any relevant assumptions we have made when collecting data globally. INDICATOR NAME INDICATOR DEFINITION UNIT ZERO CARBON FOOTPRINT Total production of beer and soft drinks Definition: Million hl Volume of fermented and non-fermented products produced. Production output that has passed through the production process on the company's own premises is included. Output is defined as approved packaged product to warehouse, plus volume of bulk beer and volume of bulk non-fermented products. Scope: Beer and soft drinks production sites as defined on page 48. Total thermal energy consumption Definition: GWh Total thermal energy consumption used for beer, soft drinks and malt production. Thermal energy originates from different energy sources such as light fuel oil, heavy fuel oil, natural gas, town gas, biogas from wastewater treatment plants, coal, biomass, district heating, grid electricity and biogas with renewable certificates (documented and traceable). Scope: Beer, soft drinks and malt production sites as defined on page 48. Consumption for non-production site activities is included. Assumptions: Thermal energy sold to third parties, fuels for on-site logistics and fuels used for electricity production from on-site combined heat and power (CHP) plants are excluded from Total thermal energy consumption . Losses from CHPs are included. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 DATA AND ASSURANCE 50 INDICATOR NAME INDICATOR DEFINITION UNIT ZERO CARBON FOOTPRINT Total electricity consumption Definition: GWh Total electricity consumption for beer, soft drinks and malt production. Electricity originates from different sources such as: renewable electricity generated on site (solar, wind), electricity bought with renewable certificates (e.g. Guarantees Of Origin, Renewable Energy Guarantees Origin − REGO), electricity from grid and electricity from on-site combined heat and power plants. Scope: Beer, soft drinks and malt production sites as defined on page 48. Consumption for non-production site activities is included. Assumptions: Electricity sold to third parties is excluded from total electricity consumption. Total CO2 emissions (from direct and Definition: kt indirect fuel consumption) Total fossil fuel carbon dioxide emissions (direct and indirect). Direct emissions are from the combustion of fuels for thermal energy and indirect emissions are from purchased electricity and district heating. CO2 emission factors used for fossil fuels and electricity are in accordance with the 2006 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories and International Energy Agency statistics. Electricity grid emission factors from IEA are updated annually. Renewable energy types have an emission factor of 0 g CO2/KWh. Scope: Beer, soft drinks and malt production sites as defined on page 48. Assumptions: CO2 emissions related to sold thermal energy and electricity is not deducted from “Total CO2 emissions”. Relative thermal energy consumption Definition: kWh/hl Thermal energy needed to produce 1 hectolitre of beer and soft drinks. “Total thermal energy consumption” / “Total production of beer and soft drinks” Scope: Beer and soft drinks production sites as defined on page 48. Consumption for non-production site activities is included. Assumptions: Thermal energy used for malting or other extraordinary site activities is deducted from “Total thermal energy consumption”. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 DATA AND ASSURANCE 51 INDICATOR NAME INDICATOR DEFINITION UNIT ZERO CARBON FOOTPRINT Relative electricity consumption Definition: kWh/hl Electricity needed to produce 1 hectolitre of beer and soft drinks. “Total electricity consumption” / “Total production of beer and soft drinks” Scope: Beer and soft drinks production sites as defined on page 48. Consumption for non-production site activities is included. Assumptions: Electricity used for malting or other extraordinary site activities is deducted from “Total electricity consumption”. Relative CO2 emissions Definition: kg CO2/hl Fossil fuel carbon dioxide emissions (direct and indirect emissions) emitted from energy used to produce 1 hectolitre of beer and soft drinks. “Total CO2 emissions (from direct and indirect fuel consumption” / “Total production of beer and soft drinks” Scope: Beer and soft drinks production sites as defined on page 48. Assumptions: CO2 emissions related to malting or other extraordinary site activities are deducted from “Total CO2 emissions (from direct and indirect fuel consumption)”. Total CO2 emissions from refrigerants Definition: kt CO2 equivalent emissions caused by refrigerant losses from on-site refrigerant systems. Emission factors for refrigerants are generic table values. Scope: Beer, soft drinks and malt production sites as defined on page 48. Percentage of electricity from Definition: % renewable sources Share of electricity from renewable sources. Renewable sources can be on-site renewable electricity generation or electricity supplied with Guarantees Of Origin, Renewable Energy Guarantees Origin or similar standards. RE100 requirements provide the guiding principles for how renewable electricity is reported. “Total renewable electricity intake” / “Total electricity intake”. Scope: Beer, soft drinks and malt production sites as defined on page 48. Assumptions: Electricity generated from on-site CHPs is not included in “Total electricity intake”. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 DATA AND ASSURANCE 52 INDICATOR NAME INDICATOR DEFINITION UNIT ZERO CARBON FOOTPRINT Number of sites using coal Definition: Number of sites Number of breweries that used coal as primary thermal energy source during the reporting period. Scope: Beer, soft drinks and malt production sites as defined on page 48. Assumptions: The brewery does not use coal on site to generate thermal energy. (Together Towards ZERO indicator) Definition: kt Absolute CO2 emissions Sum of “Total CO2 emissions (from direct and indirect fuel consumption) ” and “Total CO2 emissions from refrigerants”. Scope: Beer, soft drinks and malt production sites as defined on page 48. ZERO WATER WASTE Total water consumption Definition: million m³ Total water consumption for beer, soft drinks and malt production. Water originates from water withdrawal from own boreholes, municipal water supply, surface water or other sources. Scope: Beer, soft drinks and malt production sites as defined on page 48. Consumption for non-production site activities is included. Assumptions: Water intake to brewery sold to third parties is excluded from “Total water consumption”. Relative water consumption Definition: hl/hl Water needed to produce 1 hectolitre of beer and soft drinks. “Total water consumption” / “Total production of beer and soft drinks” Scope: Beer and soft drinks production sites as defined on page 48. Consumption for non-production site activities is included. Assumptions: Water used for malting or other extraordinary site activities is deducted from “Total water consumption”. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 DATA AND ASSURANCE 53 INDICATOR NAME INDICATOR DEFINITION UNIT ZERO IRRESPONSIBLE DRINKING Percentage of fermented produced Definition: % volume carrying responsible drinking “Volume of packed fermented products that carry responsible drinking guiding symbols and/or equivalent text” / “Total packed fermented production volume x 100%”. guiding symbols and/or equivalent text Scope: All majority-owned companies and production sites as defined on page 48, excluding companies without production and/or direct sales activities. Assumptions: Volume in kegs and bulk is excluded from “Total packed fermented production volume”. Percentage of total beer volume that Definition: % lists nutritional information “Volume of total beer volume that lists nutritional information (on primary packaging, excluding kegs and alcohol-free brews)” / “Total beer volume (excluding kegs and alcohol-free brews)”. Nutritional declaration: nutrition declared on consumer-facing primary packaging. Minimum requirement is to present energy in linear form (e.g. “Energy: 190 kJ/46 kcal per 100 ml”). Primary packaging : All consumer-facing primary packaging for beer products, excluding kegs. Does not include alcohol-free brews. Scope: All majority-owned companies and production sites as defined on page 48, excluding companies without production and/or direct sales activities. Percentage of total beer volume that Definition: % lists ingredient information “Volume of total beer volume that lists ingredient information (on primary packaging, excluding kegs and alcohol-free brews)” / “Total beer volume (excluding kegs and alcohol-free brews)”. Ingredient declaration: Ingredients presented on consumer-facing primary packaging in linear form (e.g. “Water, barley malt, hops”). Primary packaging: All consumer-facing primary packaging for beer products, excluding kegs. Does not include alcohol-free brews. Scope: All majority-owned companies and production sites as defined on page 48, excluding companies without production and/or direct sales activities. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 DATA AND ASSURANCE 54 INDICATOR NAME INDICATOR DEFINITION UNIT ZERO ACCIDENTS CULTURE Lost-time accidents (LTAs) in Definition: LTA Production, Logistics, Sales & Marketing, Any wound or damage to the body, resulting from a brief single event or exposure, causing lost time. Administration Lost time occurs when the injured/ill person is medically considered unable to work. It includes time away from work for rest, recovery or treatment. “Accident” and “injury” are used interchangeably. Scope: All majority-owned companies and production sites as defined on page 48. Days lost (DL) in Production, Logistics, Definition: DL Sales & Marketing, Administration Calendar days, starting the day after the incident and ending the day before return to work, including weekends, holidays etc. Scope: All majority-owned companies and production sites as defined on page 48. Full-time equivalents (FTEs) in Definition: FTE Production, Logistics, Sales & Full-time equivalents (FTEs) is equal to the average number of employees on the payroll. Part-time employees are converted into FTEs proportionally. Marketing, Administration Scope: All majority-owned companies and production sites as defined on page 48. Lost-time accident rate (LTAR) in Definition LTAR Production, Logistics, Sales & Marketing, Number of lost-time accidents (LTAs) x 1,000 / Number of full-time equivalents (FTEs). Administration Scope: All majority-owned companies and production sites as defined on page 48. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 DATA AND ASSURANCE 55 INDICATOR NAME INDICATOR DEFINITION UNIT ZERO ACCIDENTS CULTURE Days lost rate (DLR) in Production, Definition: Logistics, Sales & Marketing, Number of days lost (DLs) x 1,000 / Number of full-time equivalents (FTEs). Administration DLR Scope: All majority-owned companies and production sites as defined on page 48. Lost-time accidents (LTAs), contractors Definition: on Carlsberg site Any wound or damage to the body, resulting from a brief single event or exposure, causing lost time. Lost time occurs when the injured/ill person is medically considered unable to work. It includes time away from work for rest, recovery or treatment. Contractor – any individual who works for a service provider (or who is self-employed) and performs an outsourced activity for Carlsberg (including individuals who work for LTA subcontractors). Carlsberg site – any site managed by Carlsberg, or where construction work is being carried out on our behalf, including greenfield and brownfield project sites. “Accident” and “injury” are used interchangeably. Scope: All majority-owned companies and production sites as defined on page 48. Lost-time accidents (LTAs), members of Definition: public on Carlsberg site Any wound or damage to the body, resulting from a brief single event or exposure, causing lost time. Lost time occurs when the injured/ill person is medically considered unable to work. It includes time away from work for rest, recovery or treatment. Member of public – any individual who does not correspond to the definitions of regular employee, temporary employee or contractor (e.g. visitors, delivery personnel, suppliers, consultants, students, family members) LTA Carlsberg site – any site managed by Carlsberg, or where construction work is being carried out on our behalf, including greenfield and brownfield project sites. Accident and injury are used interchangeably. Scope: All majority-owned companies and production sites as defined on page 48. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 DATA AND ASSURANCE 56 LIST OF REPORTING SITES COUNTRY COMPANY SITES WESTERN EUROPE Bulgaria Carlsberg Bulgaria Pirinsko, Shumensko Croatia Carlsberg Croatia Koprivnica Denmark Carlsberg Danmark Jacobsen Brewery, Saltum, Carlsberg Fredericia Carlsberg Breweries No production sites Estonia Saku Õlletehase as Saku Finland Sinebrychoff Kerava France Kronenbourg Kronenbourg Obernai Germany Carlsberg Deutschland Holsten-Brauerei Hamburg AG, Mecklenburgische Brauerei Lübz Greece Olympic Brewery S.A. Thessaloniki, Ritsona Brewery Italy Carlsberg Italia Varese Latvia Aldaris Aldaris Riga Lithuania Svyturys Utenos Alus Utena Norway Ringnes Farris, Gjelleråsen, Imsdal Poland Carlsberg Polska Okocim Brewery Brzesko, Kasztelan Brewery, Szczecin Brewery Serbia Carlsberg Srbija Carlsberg Srbija − Celarevo Sweden Carlsberg Sverige Falkenberg, Ramlösa Sverige Switzerland Feldschlösschen Rhäzüns, S Rheinfeld, Sion Carlsberg Supply Company No production sites UK Carlsberg UK Northampton CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 DATA AND ASSURANCE 57 COUNTRY COMPANY SITES EASTERN EUROPE Azerbaijan Baku (Company) Baku Belarus Alivaria Alivaria Kazakhstan Carlsberg Kazakhstan Carlsberg Kazakhstan (brewery site) Russia Baltika Breweries Baltika Brewery St Petersburg, Baltika Don Brewery Rostov-Na-Don, Baltika Khabarovsk, Baltika Novosibirsk, Baltika Samara, Baltika Tula Brewery Tula, Yarpivo Brewery Yaroslavl, Yarpivo Voronezh Carlsberg Eastern Europe (Grain Co) Malt Plant Yaroslavl, Malt Plant Tula Ukraine Carlsberg Ukraine Lvivska Brewery Lviv, Slavutich Zaporozhye, Slavutich Kiev ASIA China Xinjiang Group Akesu Brewery, Urumqi No. 2 Brewery, Wusu Brewery, Yining Brewery, Korle Brewery CIB & TMH Carlsberg Brewery Guangdong (Huizhou), Changzhou Tianmuhu Beer Co. Ltd, Anhui Tiandao Beer Co. Ltd Ningxia Group Ningxia Xixia Jianiang Brewery Yunnan Group Kunming Huashi Brewery Yunnan, Dali Beer Co. Ltd CBC Mawangxiang Brewery, Dazhulin Brewery, Hechuan Brewery, Liangping Brewery, Wanzhou Brewery, Fuling Brewery, Panzhihua Brewery, Xichang Brewery, Boke Brewery, Shizhu Brewery, Yibin Brewery, Guoren Lixian Brewery, Guoren Changde Brewery, Guoren Yongzhou Brewery Carlsberg Procurement (Shenzhen) No production sites China National Office (HQ) No production sites Carlsberg Hong Kong No production sites Carlsberg Brewery Hong Kong No production sites India Carlsberg India Kolkatta, Alwar, Aurangabad, Paonta Sahib, Hyderabad, Dharuhera, Mysuru Karnataka brewery Laos Lao Brewery Pepsi Plant Vientiane, Lao Brewery Pakse, Lao Brewery Vientiane Malaysia Carlsberg Malaysia Carlsberg Kuala Lumpur Myanmar Myanmar Carlsberg Bago Brewery Nepal Gorkha Brewery Gorkha Brewery Singapore Carlsberg Singapore No production sites Vietnam Carlsberg Vietnam Phu Bai, SEAB Hanoi CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 DATA AND ASSURANCE 58 TAX CONTRIBUTION PRINCIPLES BASIS OF PREPARATION when Carlsberg A/S directly or indirectly owns data is reported by the entity in local currency Income recognised in other comprehensive GENERAL COMMENTS or controls more than 50% of the voting rights in multiples of 1,000. income is not included. This Basis of Preparation presents the scope in the subsidiary or has control in some other and methodology of the collection and way. Subsidiaries that Carlsberg A/S controls SCOPE OF REPORTING AND DEFINITION Total tax contribution reporting of the data on tax payments used in have reported 100% of their taxes borne and OF KEY TERMS Total tax contribution is the sum of borne and the Economic Contribution to Society section collected, and the full amount is included in the “Tax” in this Section means any amount of collected taxes paid to governments for the (“the Section”). Carlsberg Group tax contribution. money required to be paid to, or collected and period from 1 January to 31 December. subsequently remitted to, a government. Amounts are included as paid when cash is The Section aims to provide readers with an Companies over which the Carlsberg Group released from or received by the Carlsberg overview of the total tax contribution to society exercises a significant influence, but does not Taxes have been reported by differentiating Group. that the Carlsberg Group (excluding associates) control, are considered to be associates. between taxes borne and taxes collected. The following sections provide the scope of the Operating costs has generated during the year. The total tax Significant influence is generally obtained by data presented in the Section. Include cost of sales, sales and distribution contribution is defined as taxes borne and taxes direct or indirect ownership or control of more expenses, administrative expenses and other collected by the Carlsberg Group. than 20% but less than 50% of the voting rights. Terms defined in the Carlsberg Group’s Annual operating expenses, but excluding employee Data for associates is not part of the Carlsberg Report 2018 are not described below. wages. The Basis of Preparation supports the data for Group tax contribution. taxes borne, taxes collected and total tax Taxes borne and taxes collected are the taxes Employee wages contribution included in the Section. Entities acquired or formed during the year are due in respect of an accounting period as Include wages to employees, excluding social recognised in the Section from the date of defined in IFRS, as adopted by the EU. Borne security costs. It is the responsibility of the management of acquisition or formation. Entities that are the Carlsberg Group to ensure that appropriate disposed of or wound up are recognised in the taxes paid and collected taxes paid, including Providers of capital procedures are in place to prepare reporting in consolidated income statement until the date excise duty paid, are included when cash is Include financial expenses recognised in the line with this Basis of Preparation. of disposal or winding-up. released from or received by the Carlsberg income statement, but excluding financial Group. expenses recognised in other comprehensive All data, unless otherwise stated, has been The data includes a degree of estimation, as income. KEY TERM DEFINITIONS prepared for the year from 1 January 2018 to tax per entity is not reported in detail if a type Economic value generated 31 December 2018. of tax is below DKK 100,000 per year. Instead, Economic value retained Economic value generated comprises gross taxes below DKK 50,000 are not reported, and Consolidated profit after tax. revenue, other income, financial income and Data is collected for all companies that taxes above DKK 50,000 but below DKK income included in special items, and share of Carlsberg A/S controls. Control is obtained 100,000 are reported as DKK 50,000. The profit after tax in associates and joint ventures. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 DATA AND ASSURANCE 59 Current tax Corporate income tax shown below). Typically, these taxes tend to taxes are, however, indirectly generated from The corporate income tax due in respect of Corporate income tax comprises any tax on the become payable, and are paid, to governments the Group’s business activities and are therefore taxable profit for an accounting period, as business calculated on the basis of its profits, throughout the year. part of the Group’s total tax contribution. defined in the International Financial Reporting income or capital gains. Typically, these taxes Standard IAS 12. would be reflected in corporate income tax Withholding taxes on dividends, royalties, Personal income taxes returns made to governments and tend to interest and professional fees This comprises employee taxes withheld from Deferred tax become payable, and are paid, either in the Withholding taxes comprise the final tax employee wages and paid to governments, i.e. The corporate income tax due in respect of year the profits were made or up to one year burden on payment of dividends, interest etc. tax collected and remitted to governments on temporary differences between carrying later, depending on the local tax rules as to after possible tax relief. behalf of employees. amounts and tax base, as defined in the Intertiming of payments. Transportation taxes Social contribution withheld by the company national Financial Reporting Standard IAS 12. Excise duties (beer and soft drinks etc.) Transportation taxes comprise flight tax, petrol This comprises social contributions payable by Employee taxes Excise duties are indirect taxes on the tax, registration duties and other taxes levied employees to social security, and private Include personal income taxes and social consumption of alcoholic beverages etc. on the mobility of goods and employees. funded and unfunded schemes. Generally, the contribution for employees (borne and employment of staff requires the employing Energy taxes (net, non-refundable) Social contribution for employees collected). company to administer employees’ social Energy taxes comprise environmental taxes Social contribution for employees comprises security contributions by deducting these from Government levied on the consumption of energy borne by the social security contributions levied on and wages and salaries. Any government body or nation, state, region companies’ own supply of energy. Such taxes borne by the employing company. Such or district. may include taxes on the consumption of contributions may include the employer’s Withholding tax on dividend distributions made electricity, oil, gas or coal. national insurance contributions, employment by Carlsberg A/S Direct tax insurance tax, employees’ provident fund, oldThis comprises taxes that are required to be A tax paid directly to a government by the Environmental fees age, survivors’ and disability insurance tax. withheld in advance on payments made to person on whom it is imposed. Such taxes also Environmental fees comprise additional shareholders. include non-refundable VAT, non-recoverable environmental taxes that may apply deStamp duties withholding taxes, real estate tax etc. pending on company operations. Such taxes Stamp duties comprise taxes that arise on VAT/GST may include other taxes and duties on the transfers of assets or capital. Typically, these VAT is a broadly based consumption tax Indirect tax taxes would be reflected in stamp duty returns assessed on the value added to goods and supply of goods and services that are A tax required to be paid to a government by made to governments and tend to become services. It applies more or less to all goods potentially harmful to the environment and one person at the expense of another. payable, and are paid, to governments shortly and services that are bought and sold for use have not been included in the energy taxes. after capital or assets have been transferred. or consumption. SCOPE OF REPORTING VAT (non-deductible) 1. BORNE TAXES AND EXCISE DUTIES Non-deductible VAT is the part of the input Other taxes VAT is assessed and collected at each point in These are the taxes that the Carlsberg Group is VAT that cannot be recovered, e.g. VAT on This category comprises all paid taxes that the manufacturing–distribution–sales process obliged to pay to a government on its own gifts or entertainment. have not been included in the above categories. of a good or supply of a service. behalf, or taxes that the Group is obliged to pay to a third party and that cannot be Real estate taxes 2. BORNE TAXES AND EXCISE DUTIES Like VAT, the Goods and Service Tax (GST) is a recovered from a government. Real estate taxes comprise any propertyThese are taxes not finally borne by the value-added tax assessed on most goods and related taxes, including property, land and Carlsberg Group, but for which the Group bears services bought and sold for consumption. estate tax (other than stamp duty, which is an administrative burden of collection. These CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 DATA AND ASSURANCE 60 LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR The Carlsberg Group engaged us to provide WHAT WE ARE ASSURING • In the “Economic contribution and tax a reasonable assurance engagement been limited assurance on the data and information The scope of our work was limited to assurance contribution” section, the following performed. described below and set out in the Carlsberg on selected 2018 data in the section “Data information for 2018: “Taxes borne incl. Group Sustainability Report for the year ended summary table” (pages 40-44) of the 2018 excise duties”, “Corporate tax paid” and OUR INDEPENDENCE AND QUALITY 31 December 2018. Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report, namely: “Excise duty paid” (pages 38-39). CONTROL We have complied with the Code of Ethics for OUR CONCLUSION • Energy, carbon and water: data on “Total We do not provide any assurance on the Professional Accountants issued by the Based on the procedures we have performed production of beer and soft drinks”, “Total achievability of the Carlsberg Group's International Ethics Standards Board for and the evidence we have obtained, nothing thermal energy consumption”, “Total objectives, targets and expectations. Accountants, which includes independence and has come to our attention that causes us not to electricity consumption”, “Total CO2 emissions other ethical requirements founded on believe that data in scope for our limited (market-based)”, “Total water consumption”, PROFESSIONAL STANDARDS APPLIED fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, assurance engagement in the Carlsberg Group “HFC-based refrigerants”, “Percentage of AND LEVEL OF ASSURANCE professional competence and due care, Sustainability Report for the year ended 31 electricity from renewable sources” and We performed a limited assurance engagement confidentiality and professional behaviour. The December 2018 are without material “Number of sites using coal” (pages 40-42); in accordance with International Standard on firm applies International Standard on Quality misstatements and have been prepared, in all • Responsible drinking: data on “Percentage of Assurance Engagements 3000 (revised), Control 1 and accordingly maintains a material respects, in accordance with the fermented produced volume carrying “Assurance Engagements other than Audits and comprehensive system of quality control, accounting policies as stated in the sections responsible drinking guiding symbols and/or Reviews of Historical Financial Information”. A including documented policies and procedures “Reporting process and scope” (pages 47-48), equivalent text”, “Percentage of total beer limited assurance engagement is substantially regarding compliance with ethical Indicator definitions” (pages 49-55), “List of volume that lists nutritional information” and less in scope than a reasonable assurance requirements, professional standards and reporting sites” (pages 56-57), and “Tax “Percentage of total beer volume that lists engagement in relation to both the risk applicable legal and regulatory requirements. contribution principles” (pages 58-59) of the ingredient information” (page 44); assessment procedures, including an Our work was carried out by an independent 2018 Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report. • Health & Safety: data on “Lost-time accident understanding of internal control, and the multidisciplinary team with experience in rate” and “Days lost rate” in the Carlsberg procedures performed in response to the sustainability reporting and assurance. This conclusion is to be read in the context of Group and “Lost-time accidents (contractors assessed risks; consequently, the level of what we say in the remainder of our report. and members of public)” (page 43); assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 DATA AND ASSURANCE 61 UNDERSTANDING REPORTING AND • Conducted interviews with relevant policy MANAGEMENT’S RESPONSIBILITIES OUR RESPONSIBILITY MEASUREMENT METHODOLOGIES owners at corporate levels, who are Management of the Carlsberg Group is We are responsible for: Data and information need to be read and responsible for collecting, consolidating and responsible for: • Planning and performing the engagement to understood together with the accounting carrying out internal control procedures on • Designing, implementing and maintaining obtain limited assurance about whether principles (sections “Reporting process and the selected data in scope for our assurance internal control over information relevant to selected environmental, health & safety, scope”, “Indicator definitions”, “List of reporting engagement; the preparation of data in the 2018 Carlsberg social and economic contribution data in the sites” and “Tax contribution principles”), which • Visited production sites in Italy, Malaysia and Group Sustainability Report that is free from 2018 Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report Management is solely responsible for selecting Ukraine to obtain insight into local material misstatement, whether due to fraud are free from material misstatement, whether and applying. The absence of a significant sustainability management, review data and or error; due to fraud or error; body of established practice on which to draw assess the robustness of the sustainability • Establishing objective accounting principles • Forming an independent conclusion, based on to evaluate and measure non-financial data management systems; (sections “Reporting process and scope”, the procedures we have performed and the information allows for different, but • Conducted an analytical review of the “Indicator definitions”, “List of reporting sites” evidence we have obtained; and acceptable, measurement techniques and can selected data in scope for our assurance and “Tax contribution principles”) for • Reporting our conclusion to the stakeholders affect comparability between entities and over engagement submitted by all production sites preparing data and information; of the Carlsberg Group. time. for consolidation at corporate level; • Measuring and reporting data and • Evaluated relevant internal and external information in the Sustainability Report based WORK PERFORMED documentation, based on sampling, to on the accounting principles; and Copenhagen, 6 February 2019 We are required to plan and perform our work determine whether the selected data in scope • The content of the 2018 Carlsberg Group in order to consider the risk of material for our assurance engagement is supported Sustainability Report. PricewaterhouseCoopers misstatement of the data and information. In by sufficient evidence; Statsautoriseret doing so and based on our professional • Reconciled selected tax information with the Revisionspartnerselskab judgement, we: audited consolidated financial statements of CVR no. 3377 1231 • Completed a media search to identify relevant Carlsberg A/S; risks and issues within the scope of the • Read other information included in the 2018 Mogens Nørgaard Mogensen Gert Fisker Tomczyk assurance engagement for Carlsberg during Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report in order State Authorised Public State Authorised Public the reporting period; to identify any material inconsistencies with Accountant Accountant • Reviewed the suitability of the reporting the selected data in scope for our assurance Mne21404 Mne9777 criteria; engagement and our limited assurance report • Evaluated the design and implementation of thereon. the systems, and processing and internal controls over the selected data in scope for our assurance engagement; CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 DATA AND ASSURANCE 62 Carlsberg A/S 100 Ny Carlsberg Vej 1799 Copenhagen V Denmark Phone +45 3327 3300 www.carlsberggroup.com CVR No. 61056416 Editor: Carlsberg Group Corporate Affairs Design & layout: Operate & SkabelonDesign Copywriting & proofreading: Onestone & Borella projects
