The Adecco Group 2018 Sustainability Report 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Delivering shared value Our vision and purpose are to in the world ensure that people across the globe are inspired, prepared of work and empowered to embrace the future of work. Working lives are changing and creating new opportunities today and tomorrow. As the leading HR solutions partner, we embrace this exciting, ever-evolving journey. Our goal is to give security and prospects for individuals and provide companies with the critical talent and solutions to stay competitive, navigate the current era of transformation, and prepare for the future. At the Adecco Group, we aim to make the future work for everyone. 2018 performance highlights Income taxes Number of associates Number of paid on assignment/day permanent placements EUR 290m c.700,000 c.130,000 Complying fully with both letter Provided with flexible employment People placed in permanent and spirit of the applicable tax laws every day employment Great Place to New team Gender Work® Ranking members hired distribution 5th 9,000 26% Out of more than 7,000 Across the 60 countries in Women in Global Leadership participating companies globally which we operate positions, with the ambition to move to 50% by 2030 EcoVadis CEO for One Month IOC Career+ and IPC Win4Youth 75/100 applications Athlete Career Programme Gold 204,000 4,500 8.6m Rating awarded in Candidates attracted by Athletes engaged in 2018 Converted kilometers, resulting recognition of our our flagship workin a donation of CHF 500,000 sustainability performance readiness programme for to Plan International, our global young people NGO partner MESSAGE FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Embracing sustainability at the heart of our work At the Adecco Group, it is our aim to be the world’s most trusted and admired HR solutions partner. Sustainability is a core element of this ambition and a tool for positive change in the world of work. For us, sustainability is a strategic choice about how we conduct our business and generate our profits. Sustainability is no longer a nice-to-have, but a must-have for business continuity, competitiveness and differentiation. This is driven by stakeholder expectations from clients, candidates, investors, associates, employees and the public, and manifested in the UN 2030 Sustainable Development Agenda. Sustainability effectively frames and helps meet these expectations. And we are well placed to both contribute to and benefit from these developments. Our scale and reach position us as a leader and an influencer, helping our clients, our candidates and associates, as well as our colleagues alike adapt to the big shifts in the workplace. We are strategically positioned to unlock their potential, facilitate access to work and workers, and thus enable wellbeing, livelihoods, and security. At the same time, viewing our business through a sustainability lens can help us drive more profitable growth for our brands by saving costs, mitigating risk, and building trust among our stakeholders, thus creating shared value for all. With a long history of corporate responsibility and social programmes, we have the advantage of coming from a position of strength. But we cannot be complacent. Sustainability-related issues are inherently dynamic and change over time as our stakeholders’ expectations evolve, new issues emerge, science and technology progress, and new regulations are introduced. We do not merely want to meet expectations and run good programmes; we want to be a driver at the forefront of sustainable business. This means having a clear understanding of the company we want to be – today, as well as in five, or ten years from now. We’re pleased to announce that 2018 saw the launch of our global integrated sustainability framework. Through in-depth analysis we confirmed the issues most material to our Group and our stakeholders. They directly underpin four strategic sustainability goals that address the work-related needs of our key stakeholders: access to work and workers, client experience, being an employer of choice, and social security. These goals, in turn, hold the means to achieve our overarching mission: making the future work for everyone. Our efforts are thereby guided by our purpose, our values, and our continued commitment to the important principles of the UN Global Compact. Alain Dehaze We have also scaled-up our global programmes to continuously strengthen their value proposition for all our Chief Executive Officer stakeholders. CEO for One Month, for example, attracted a record of more than 204,000 candidates and is now working with Spring Professional to offer more opportunities to young people. Thousands of colleagues across the Group logged an incredible 8.6 million converted kilometers as part of our Win4Youth programme, resulting in a donation of CHF 500,000 to Plan International. And we launched two projects under the social innovation lab of the Adecco Group Foundation, focused on increasing the work-readiness and employability of underserved populations, and making the global workforce healthier, more vital and fit for purpose. For us, this is not a one-off effort. By interlinking the business with sustainability, we can better serve our long term commercial interests and enhance our value proposition to our stakeholders, while respecting people and the planet. As part of the private sector, we can and must play a critical role in realising a human-centred agenda for the future of work, as called for by the ILO Global Commission on the Future of Work. This approach puts people and the work they do at the centre of economic and social policy and business practice. I was honoured to be a Member of this Commission and, both in this role and as CEO of the leading HR solutions provider, I fully endorse this agenda. We will continue to challenge ourselves and others, push boundaries, and strive to be at the forefront of delivering better futures for all. And we will not rest until the future works for everyone. The Adecco Group 1 2018 Sustainability Report OUR BUSINESS MODEL Delivering value in We combine differentiated solutions, a clear vision and strategy, and focused execution, to deliver long-term sustainable value for all our stakeholders. Market context Inputs Strategic Strategic agenda focus areas Trends impacting Our critical assets our business Geopolitical Perform Workforce Solutions and economic Talent uncertainty Finding and attracting skilled and motivated Workforce Solutions people; inspiring them to grow with us and our clients, by providing meaningful Recruitment on Demand employment and lifelong development. Gig Relationships Professional Staffing & Solutions economy Building enduring, collaborative and mutually beneficial relationships, Transform Executive Recruitment with candidates, clients, governments and social Professional Solutions partners. Innovation Skill Developing new digital Professional Recruitment imbalances solutions to build competitive advantage and enhance our future prospects. Talent Recruitment Platform Infrastructure Maintaining a network of Freelancer Marketplace branches, back offices and IT Innovate infrastructure to effectively New serve our candidates, Talent Development & demographic associates and clients. Career Transition mix Financial Up/Reskilling Generating strong cash flow and maintaining a strong Talent Development & balance sheet to support the Career Transition growth of our business. Automation, Total Talent Solutions AI and machine learning Underpinned by our people, values and culture Digitisation, big data and analytics Passion Entrepreneurship Customer-centricity We change the We constantly take We live by and for our world of work, one initiatives to empower customers’ success, we want job at a time people, fuel economies, to be their top-of-mind and and enrich societies top-of-heart choice 2 The Adecco Group 2018 Sustainability Report the world of work Our brands Value created… …and shared Investors We benefit from attractive industry dynamics; by managing our capital EUR 350m with care, we are able to grow our profits, cash flow and returns. This dividends paid supports our progressive dividend policy and our aim of delivering attractive total returns for 5th our investors. in World’s Best Employees Multinational Workplaces We provide rewarding employment Great Place to Work® for our colleagues. We enable them to achieve their career goals, supported by our continuous 700,000 investment in training programmes through the Adecco Academy and associates working in co-operation with renowned each day institutions INSEAD and IMD. Candidates and Associates 130,000 Our expertise, tools and network connect people with Professional permanent placements job opportunities, providing them with purposeful work in a safe environment. We advise people 15 on their careers, and help them develop their talents with training Client Net and lifelong learning. Promoter Score Clients As a trusted advisor on total EUR 290m talent solutions, we help clients to structure and manage their income taxes paid workforce for flexibility, productivity and growth. We work with and for our clients to find, hire, develop 75/100 and transition people according to their needs. 2018 EcoVadis Gold rating Suppliers We build strong partnerships of mutual trust with our suppliers, many of whom are also our clients. Governments and Social Partners We are trusted advisors and active enablers, sharing our labour market insights and experience to support and shape sustainable and Responsibility Team spirit responsible growth and job creation. We are the industry leader; We work together our goal is to provide more as one team work opportunities for more people The Adecco Group 3 2018 Sustainability Report OUR APPROACH Embracing the future of work Our mission of making the future work for everyone is our starting point. It has the concept of sustainability right at its heart. Sustainability is all about creating value for all our stakeholders – shared value. Identifying and prioritising what matters most The Adecco Group Integrated Sustainability To be impactful we need to be focused. Over the course of Framework 2030 2018, we therefore went through a rigorous process to The result of our materiality analysis: ten factors that have identify and prioritise the issues that are most critical to us as the greatest impact on our ability to create value, that are a business and to our stakeholders, building on related work crucial to safeguarding our license to operate and business done in previous years. continuity. We divide these issues into two categories: As part of this materiality process, we evaluated what we • Strategic priorities – areas that are core to our business already do and what we can build on – and there are many and that we therefore want to lead in. excellent practices across the Group. We reviewed existing • The fundamentals – areas where we will ensure we have and planned legislation, regulation and global standards. We best practice standards in place. looked at practices within and outside our industry. And we engaged with a broad array of stakeholders to validate and These material issues directly underpin four strategic prioritise our findings, be it through an online dialogue with sustainability goals, that address work-related needs of our experts, a public online survey or internal workshops. key stakeholder groups and help us structure our programmes and measures in a purposeful way. And these We refined the list of topics based on the following criteria: goals in turn collectively hold the means to achieve our • Importance to our stakeholders; overarching mission: making the future work for everyone. • Importance to the Group, based on each topic’s strategic Our efforts are guided by our purpose as a company, our fit, the impact on our business and values, potential values, our commitment to the ten important principles of opportunities and risks, and its innovation potential; the United Nations Global Compact, and our ability to • Impacts of our activities on sustainable development along contribute to the achieving of the UN Sustainable our value chain. Development Agenda. Contributing to the UN Sustainable Ensure inclusive and equitable quality Development Agenda 2030 education and promote lifelong learning In 2015, under the lead of the United Nations, opportunities for all countries adopted a set of 17 goals and Focus: Target 4.4 associated targets to end poverty, protect the planet, and ensure prosperity for all as part of a new sustainable development agenda – the Achieve gender equality and empower Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). But all women and girls governments cannot do it alone. The Focus: Target 5.5 transformational change to create a better world relies on an ecosystem that leverages business knowhow and resources. Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic As part of our approach to integrate growth, full and productive employment and decent sustainability within our day-to-day business, we work for all contribute to and have touch points with many of the SDGs, but we seek to focus on those where Focus: Targets 8.5, 8.6 and 8.8 we can have the biggest impact through our business activities as an HR solutions provider. Reduce inequality within and among countries Focus: Targets 10.2, 10.3, 10.4 and 10.7 4 The Adecco Group 2018 Sustainability Report Our Integrated Sustainability Framework 2030 The framework is fully integrated into our business strategy, uniting our existing activities and outlining opportunities where we can implement new initiatives. In line with the Group’s strategic agenda, for each issue we will look at how we can institutionalise best practices within our own operations (Perform), enhance our value proposition towards our stakeholders (Transform), and/or fuel innovation along the full value chain (Innovate). Making the future work for everyone Goals and Mission Client Access to work Employer Social experience and workers of choice security Strategic priorities Skilling Digital transformation Attracting, engaging Diversity Material factors and enabling and data ethics and retaining talent & Inclusion Fundamentals Compliance, Human rights, Workforce Public Corporate Environmental corporate freedom vitality policy citizenship performance governance of association Enablers Governance Measurement, transparency Stakeholder engagement and accountability and disclosure (internal and external) The Adecco Group purpose and core values; Commitment to the principles of the UN Global Compact The Adecco Group 5 2018 Sustainability Report OUR APPROACH CONTINUED Managing what matters most (particularly through its Governance and Nomination In the next step, we will focus on strengthening the collection Committee) and the Executive Committee play a central of the necessary data points that enable us to set the role in providing the mandate and oversight for the baseline for our future activities. This in turn will allow us to implementation of the sustainability framework across the set out the goals, approach and meaningful targets for Group. But this will be a collaborative effort, with both delivering the objectives for each material issue. Not just for top-down and bottom-up input. We want to ensure our the next few months. But for the next few years. activities are meaningful and appropriate in the relevant context: the framework sets the global direction, but local This is not a one-off effort. Sustainability is a journey, a action may vary to account for local context, needs and long-term process of change and evolution. In alignment with perspectives. the UN Sustainable Development Agenda, our framework extends until 2030. Our long term vision is for sustainability As a further enabler, we will continue to engage with a broad to be fully integrated across our brands, operations and set of stakeholders to leverage their insights, build trust, territories. We will be diligent in our efforts and invest the continuously validate our efforts and ensure we continue necessary time and effort to get this right. to be on the right track. This will be supported by regular, transparent reporting. We will publish further data on our Our activities are supported by a strong governance website as this becomes available. And we will seek to show structure, with commitment and accountability starting at the courage to identify not just what works, but also what top. As stewards of the company, the Board of Directors does not. Sustainability governance framework The Board of Directors’ Governance and Nomination Board Committee (GNC) reviews and reassesses the Group’s GNC sustainability principles and measures. Executive The Executive Committee approves and reviews the Group’s Committee sustainability approach, ensures its inclusion in the Group strategy, and is accountable for its implementation. The enablers sitting within our brands and countries Brand / Country translate the global framework into local action and Enablers oversee its local implementation. The Group Sustainability Function drives and co-ordinates the Group’s sustainability activities, ensures alignment Group Sustainability Function across the Group, and reports globally on progress. Additional bodies may be instituted as deemed conducive and/or necessary. 6 The Adecco Group 2018 Sustainability Report OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES Making our vision a reality Skilling and enabling Future skilling In 2018, in collaboration with The Boston Rapid technological progress and an ageing workforce create Consulting Group, we released the Future an urgent need to upskill and reskill workers whose skills Skills study exploring what the future of skills have or will become less relevant. And the need for acquisition looks like for today’s workers and up/reskilling is expected to only rise. In the world of work of companies. In another study focused on today and tomorrow, skills acquisition is a process with no “Rethinking workforce investment”, we ending, across the entire work-life cycle. Companies will identified three alternative models to help need to reassess constantly the capabilities of their companies rethink how they invest in re/ workforce, while workers will need to regularly upgrade their upskilling and how they treat it during the skills to stay relevant in a labour market that is and will be accounting process. disrupted by technology. Find out more on The Adecco Group is uniquely positioned to help. As part of www.future-skilling.adeccogroup.com. our role to provide employment opportunities, we also see it as our responsibility to prepare people for the shift in skills and behaviours that a more digitised world will create. We are transforming our HR processes with the latest in apprenticeships to facilitate demand-driven school-totechnology, HR intelligence and people analytics to work transitions. We run apprenticeship programmes in continuously assess the competencies, skills and experience various countries and collaborate with organisations such as our clients, our associates and candidates and our own the Global Apprenticeship Network (GAN) and the Global organisation need. We enable workers to gain the needed Alliance for YOUth. Back in 2016, we signed up to the skills and be equipped for the challenges ahead as they European Alliance for Apprenticeships (EAfA), committing to progress through their careers, and run work-readiness 5,000 apprenticeships by 2018. We overachieved our goal, programmes in most countries where we operate. In 2018, having offered 8,668 apprenticeships across Europe to date. we significantly expanded our up/reskilling capabilities with We renewed our pledge for 2019-2021 in November 2018, the acquisition of General Assembly (GA), a pioneer in digital making us one of a few EAfA Partners to do so. And in skills education. With GA, we have extended the base of December 2018, we signed the America’s Workers Pledge , clients that benefit from our experience in addressing digital committing to facilitating 10,000 work-based learning talent shortages by up/reskilling their workforces to fill opportunities with an emphasis on apprenticeships in North persistent talent gaps. America by 2023. These commitments make us one of the biggest investors in youth across the world, underlining our Helping prepare young people for the workforce and drive to equip young talent with the skills required by the facilitating their access to the world of work has been part of labour market. These programmes are complemented by the our DNA for years, developing partnerships and programmes work of the Adecco Group Foundation, which helps prepare to build the talent the business world needs now, and in the young people and underserved populations for the future. The Adecco Group is a major proponent of investing workforce; please see pages 15-16. The Adecco Group’s EAfA pledge 2019-2021 4,000 work-based learning opportunities with clients per year in 11 countries by 2021; and 500 work-based learning opportunities for new Adecco Group colleagues per year by 2021. The Adecco Group’s “America’s Workers pledge” 10,000 work-based learning opportunities by 2023. The Adecco Group 7 2018 Sustainability Report OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES CONTINUED Digital transformation We are mindful that we are, at our core, and data ethics a people business. Technology is an Technology is redefining the boundaries of the HR solutions enabler rather than a substitute. As industry and creating great new opportunities in the world society embraces artificial intelligence of work. We are embracing the potential of digital, adding and new technologies, our humanity, more value to existing solutions, expanding our market and business ethics and emotional significantly improving efficiency. By combining the best of intelligence continue to set us apart. the HR solutions industry with the best of the technology industry in a responsible way, we seek to become a more valuable service partner for companies and workers, independently of the form of work they are in. Our YOSS online marketplace for example enables trusted We continually invest in cybersecurity-related processes and connections between freelancers and clients, coupled systems. Our global data protection programme launched in with guaranteed swift payments and the opportunity to early 2017 helps embed privacy in our day-to-day business opt in to social benefits. operations. In 2018, we updated our Group Policy on Data Protection to fully align it with the changing global legal On the other side of the coin, we are conscious of potential privacy environment, including the new European General risks such as in AI decision-making, which may reflect the Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). We revised and updated implicit (negative) values or biases of the humans involved in the legal notices, cookie policies and privacy policies of constructing and teaching the machines. The ubiquitous almost 157 websites that are owned and operated by the digitalisation of every aspect of life also poses challenges to Adecco Group and its brands. We sent out revised privacy data privacy. As we interact with thousands of employees, statements to millions of individuals, implemented new candidates, associates and clients across the world, every processes, and amended others, such as individuals’ rights day, the security and privacy of data is a top priority for us. (including a new right to data portability) and our personal data breach management process. Our ultimate goal is to honour the trust of our customers and other people we serve, by being honest, showing respect and acting with integrity. 8 The Adecco Group 2018 Sustainability Report Attracting, engaging and retaining talent World’s Best Multinational Workplaces A company is only as strong as its people. To perform, • Record participation of more than 27,000 transform and innovate, we rely on the unique skills and colleagues across 51 countries knowledge of our talent to serve our clients, candidates • Increase of Global Trust Index Score by five and associates. In 2018, we achieved a top five spot in the points to 73 Great Place to Work® survey for the second consecutive 73 year, reinforcing our reputation as one of the most attractive and rewarding global companies to work for. The survey highlighted our key strengths: strong colleague engagement and commitment; high levels of collaboration and team 5th spirit; increased perception of care and fairness of line in Great Place Global Trust management; and a strong sense of purpose in providing to Work® Index score a valuable service to society. Our talent framework enables us to remain the leading employer in our industry. It is based on five pillars: 1. GET the best talent by improving our recruitment processes and being the most attractive employer brand in the professional services industry; 2. KEEP this talent by offering opportunity, work-life balance, state-of-the-art workplaces, appropriate rewards and a sense of purpose; 3. GROW our talent through experiential development, career progression, engagement and innovation, including programmes from the Adecco Group Academy; 4. ENABLE our talent to deliver a personal best each year with the right tools, services and strategy, with GrowTogether; 5. INSPIRE our people with a purpose and company values that resonate, engaged leadership and a positive team spirit. Beyond our own workforce, we also aim to attract the best talent for our clients. We enhanced the traditional retention strategy, by offering associates not just consecutive assignments, but training to improve skills and career development enabled by technology, such as an improved Candidate Portal launched in 2018 with an initial focus on France and the Nordics. 9,000 New team members hired across 60 countries 72% Retention rate in 2018 The Adecco Group 9 2018 Sustainability Report OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES CONTINUED Diversity & For our own operations, we launched a D&I strategy in 2018. To ensure progress, we set up a new governance structure Inclusion (D&I) consisting of a D&I core team that defines the strategy and delivers on the commitments, while a broader D&I council As a people business focused on providing workforce identifies local best practices and serves as champion of our solutions, we put our expertise, our energy and our work. Starting with gender-related issues, in 2018 we ran an enthusiasm into improving everyone’s chance of being part initial pay gap analysis for our global leadership population, of the workplace. We do so regardless of age, background, and developed standards for candidate slates that ensure ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation, religion, ability or social an equal gender mix on short lists for global leadership situation, enabling people to get better access to the jobs vacancies. We also started to grow our succession pipeline and life prospects they deserve. Our commitment is to equal to include more women so that we can reach 50 percent opportunity for everyone working with, through, or for the women successors for global leadership roles. Adecco Group, offering a culture of belonging, an environment where everyone can thrive and feel engaged, Creating long term alliances and commitments with external and where difference is respected and valued. This helps D&I expert groups is key to solidifying and consolidating our drive diversity of thought, enhancing performance, approach. In 2016, we became a member of Paradigm for engagement and innovation. Parity® – a collaborative, research-based business coalition focused on eliminating the gender gap in corporate We work with employers to develop programmes and leadership. By signing on, we agreed to achieve gender parity pathways that embrace diverse talent and campaign for more in leadership levels by 2030. We were also among the early inclusive employment worldwide through partnerships and adopters of the LGBTI Business Conduct Standards other initiatives. We play an active role in advocating for announced by the UN Human Rights Office in June 2018, changes to social welfare systems. offering practical guidance to companies on how to respect In 2016, we became a member of the rights of LGBTI people in the workplace, marketplace Paradigm for Parity® – a collaborative, and public sphere. They expand on the UN Global Compact research-based business coalition and the UN Guiding Principles for Business and Human focused on eliminating the gender gap in Rights, which we already embrace. corporate leadership. By signing on, we agreed to achieve gender parity in leadership levels by 2030. 10 The Adecco Group 2018 Sustainability Report Gender distribution at the Adecco Group1 Great Place to Work® Global Leadership Global Branch Leadership management Branch management All 86% Average All score on Diversity & Inclusion issues, reflecting a positive perception among employees on these issues Female: 26% (2017: 21%) 26% (2017:67% Female: Female: 21%) Female: Female: 67% 67% Female: 67% Male: 74% Male: Male: 74% 33% Male: Male: 33% 33% Male: 33% 1. In 2018, we adapted our indicators to better align with the leadership definition of Paradigm for Parity, to ensure consistency in measurement going forward. For this reason and in light of more diverse distribution models, we changed the scope of definition and reporting of global leadership. 4,500 Empowering athletes Athletes inspire and excite the world with their outstanding performance. And they are much more than the athletes we see on the field of play. However, they often struggle to athletes reached in 2018 leverage their unique background, capabilities and networks to successfully enter the job market once they retire from 415 their sporting careers, or similarly to balance managing a career while practising and competing as an elite athlete. Our athlete-focused career programmes support elite athletes as they build employable skills alongside their athletes placed in jobs since 2017, athletic careers and help them transition into the broader putting us well on our way to our labour market through job-placement opportunities. In 2018, 2020 target of 1,000 placements we engaged a total of 4,536 athletes in the programmes, and have placed 415 in jobs since 2017. A mentoring platform, based on MentorcliQ’s award-winning mentoring software and approach, now complements our offering. Find out more on how we help underserved populations access the labour market through the work of the Adecco Group Foundation on pages 15-16. Photo provided by Nevin Galmarini The Adecco Group 11 2018 Sustainability Report OUR FUNDAMENTALS Operating responsibly At the Adecco Group, we are committed to maintaining the highest standards of ethical business conduct and are working toward a culture that consistently integrates sustainability and responsible business practices across the company. Strong and effective leadership is crucial for the wider performance and purpose of our global team. In 2018, to enhance accountability and consistency, our 300 top OpenCorporation, the trade union ranking for executives signed up to a new Leadership Contract, which evaluating and monitoring companies’ clearly defines what is expected from a leader in the Adecco conduct, ranked us 29th out of 2,302 Group. This extends to embracing sustainability at the heart assessed companies in 2018. of our work and ensuring that integrity and ethics are a cornerstone of how we lead. Our employees are expected to comply with all applicable legislation and internal policies, as further defined in our Code of Conduct. Training courses are in place as part of the Human rights 2018 saw the 70th anniversary of the Universal Declaration Adecco Group’s Compliance and Ethics (ACE) programme, of Human Rights (UDHR), testament to the enduring covering areas such as fair competition, data protection, universality of its values of justice, equality, inclusiveness, and conflicts of interest, and bribery and corruption. Continuous human dignity. Despite many important breakthroughs, legal updates, as well as periodic audits of branches of local workers in too many geographies do not enjoy the full rights operations, are among our preventive measures. Any issue or outlined in the UDHR. Efforts need to increase to improve its concern regarding compliance with laws, regulations or impact on the ground. Ensuring respect for human rights is a company policies can be reported confidentially through the key contribution businesses can make to help achieve the ACE website or 24-hour telephone hotline. Sustainable Development Goals. Our risk management process is embedded in our strategic As an HR solutions provider, we have a double responsibility planning process and used to identify and mitigate our risk when it comes to human, particularly labour rights: towards exposure and to unleash business opportunities. The process our own colleagues, but also towards the candidates and is conducted on a regular basis and has two dimensions: associates that we place with our clients as well as top-down as well as bottom-up to ensure consistency and freelancers and self-employed individuals that use the digital comprehensive coverage by leveraging the expertise of the solutions the Group offers. We embrace some of the most people in the organisation close to the risks. Where needed, authoritative international resources such as the UDHR, the action plans are developed, and progress is reviewed during ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at regular operational business meetings. The country Work, the ILO Tripartite Declaration of Principles concerning assessments and action plans are then consolidated and Multinational Enterprises and Social Policy, the UN Guiding reported to Group management, and a Risk Owner is Principles for Business and Human Rights, and the OECD designated for each risk category identified. For further Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. information on how we manage risk, see pages 44-45 of the Group Annual Report. We are committed to embedding fair and ethical recruitment practices and the protection of workers’ rights in our daily operations across the world and our risk management and audit processes, as set out in the Adecco Group Human and Labour Rights Guidelines. A key element of our commitment Sustainable Finance as recruiter is to never charge recruitment fees and costs to In 2018, as a first in our industry, the Adecco job seekers, in compliance with relevant international Group in collaboration with a syndicate of standards, such as the ILO Convention 181 on Private global banks linked the interest rate structure Employment Agencies as well as the World Employment of one of its revolving credit facilities to its Confederation’s Code of Conduct. We offer our staff sustainability performance. This means that training through the Global Adecco Compliance and Ethics the commercial characteristics of the facility programme and have established a 24/7 Compliance and improve if our sustainability achievements Ethics Reporting Line. If we identify the risk of contributing improve, as evaluated by Sustainalytics, an to any adverse impact in the area of human rights, we are independent global sustainability and committed to taking all steps necessary to cease or prevent corporate governance research firm. This such a negative contribution and to minimise any impacts underlines our commitment to sustainability through our broader stakeholder relationships. as an integral part of how we do business. We will continue to further strengthen our efforts to ensure fair working conditions and respect for human rights within our sphere of influence, and are eager to work with stakeholders along our value chain to collaboratively advance respect for human rights. 12 The Adecco Group 2018 Sustainability Report Workforce Vitality As an HR solutions provider, our colleagues do not work in A vital, healthy workforce is good for business, people and hazardous conditions. But no matter the industry, health and society. Meanwhile, today’s corporate workforce is under wellbeing are a priority. We encourage a good work-life enormous pressure from globalisation, new technology balance, while promoting healthy lifestyles and sport through and demographic change. There is growing recognition our employee and associate engagement programmes. and understanding of the impact of work on groups and Initiatives such as Win4Youth (see page 16) encourage individuals and its role in improving, or worsening, health – everyone to get involved in physical activity. and organisations are responding in many ways. Despite And while we may not directly control the work massive investment, however, most of these programmes environments where we place our associates in, we go and initiatives are not having the desired impact. beyond our legal responsibilities when it comes to their It is our ambition to create a new paradigm of what a good health and safety. We train and equip them for the employer does to make the global workforce healthy, role ahead and work with our partners to check they resilient and fit for purpose, to help them thrive as adhere to excellent safety standards and adequately employees and individuals. This means addressing not only supervise associates. physical wellbeing, but mental and social wellbeing as well Please see page 15 on how we drive innovation in workforce as purpose. vitality through the work of the Adecco Group Foundation. The Adecco Group 13 2018 Sustainability Report OUR FUNDAMENTALS CONTINUED Public Policy As the leading global HR solutions provider, and as the largest private employer in several of our key markets such EcoVadis recognised our as France and Italy, we are committed to contributing to policy discussions on the world of work with our labour sustainability performance with a market expertise and detailed insights. Our advocacy is focused on creating open, dynamic and efficient labour markets that lead to optimal outcomes for all stakeholders. In Gold recent years, the Group has built a consistent engagement footprint on a global, regional and national level, coherent in terms of policy and solutions delivery, underlining the Rating urgency for action. in March 2018 Our most consequential contributions include membership in the ILO Global Commission on the Future of Work, the Vice-Presidency of the World Employment Confederation and the Presidency of its European chapter, the Vice-Chair Through these engagements, we raise awareness and draw of the OECD BIAC Employment, Labour and Social Affairs attention to trends we perceive as critical for all, including Committee, Chairmanship of the Global Apprenticeship social innovation, regulatory frameworks that support diverse Network, and participation in a range of policy platforms forms of work, and the balance between flexibility and such as the B20 Employment Task Force and the European security. That is today reflected in the call for a New Social Central Bank’s Non-Financial Business Sector Dialogue . Contract and for more investments in lifelong learning and employability. By working together with institutions to shape and guide “Time to act” policies and standards, we help expand opportunities for all The Adecco Group believes that it is important workers and grow the prosperity of society as a whole. that existing social protection schemes apply to all workers, and that discrimination based on the type of labour contract should end. We The environment Due to the nature of the Adecco Group’s business as an HR have long called for a New Social Contract for solutions provider, our exposure to climate-related risks and work in the 21st century. Governments, opportunities, overall environmental footprint, and ability to employers and social partners need to redesign influence and create value in this area is limited compared to society to ensure that all forms of work are other industries. Nevertheless, we strive to continuously secure and sustainable, so that there is improve corporate policies, procedures and practices in adequate social protection for all workers. All environmental management and to ingrain environmental stakeholders should work together to facilitate consciousness into core business processes, playing our part a gradual shift towards the individual, portable in safeguarding the planet for future generations. and transferable build-up of training accounts. Find out more about our Our Environmental Guidelines define our commitment to a “Time to act” Campaign more environmentally friendly way of working, with a focus on https://gig-economy. on reducing our greenhouse gas emissions across our global adeccogroup.com/ value chains. We have set a goal of reducing our average CO2 equivalent emissions by 12% by 2022 (base year 2012). The largest component of our greenhouse gas footprint is business travel, followed by electricity consumption. Our environmental data for 2018 will be published on our website as this becomes available. The transition towards a greener, low-carbon economy is expected to create new opportunities for workers, but these new jobs require new skills, which remain in short supply. To help address such skills imbalances, we use for example the parking fees at our Swiss headquarters to contribute to the Energy and Climate Laboratory of myclimate. This awardwinning programme equips apprentices across Switzerland with the know how and tools that help them develop innovative climate protection solutions and energy efficiency projects within their workplace. 14 The Adecco Group 2018 Sustainability Report THE ADECCO GROUP FOUNDATION Social value creation Our overall aim is to drive both social innovation and business opportunity to ensure the longevity of programmes and maximise stakeholder value. We sit squarely at the nexus of social impact and business interest. This allows us to both leverage the knowhow and resources of the Group to create positive social change, as well as to embed social value into products, services and ways of doing business. The Adecco Group Foundation aligns and accelerates social value creation in the field of employment and skills, with a Innovation projects specific focus on work-readiness for underserved • Workforce Vitality: building on our experience with the populations (such as young people, people with disabilities, Win4Youth programme, this innovation project focuses on and those in transition from one part of the workforce to the role that employers can and should play in making the another) and workforce vitality. Through our flagship global workforce healthier, more vital and fit for purpose. programmes – CEO for One Month, Win4Youth as well as Using initial research with the Economist Intelligence Unit the Group’s athlete-focused career programmes – we drive (EIU) as starting point, in 2018 we created a new model for inclusive, social value creation at the local and global levels. how a company can more effectively engage its employees Our social innovation projects leverage the know-how of and associates to create healthy behaviours through four these programmes to pioneer practical solutions to thorny components: physical, mental, social and purpose. What problems in the employment space. we developed is not another app or platform, but a set of necessary enablers that combine policy, practice, culture, Social innovation lab environment, technology and tools that must surround The Foundation acts as a research and design-thinking any given intervention to ensure they are effectively incubator to design, build, test and roll out new models and embedded. We also launched a first set of prototype ways of doing business that address global needs in interventions that we can now test more broadly, in employment and skilling. Our goal is to create a paradigm different contexts, with the goal of publication later in shift, to change norms and behaviours as well as individual 2019. Our ambition is for the model to become the new and society expectations of how business interacts with gold standard for company behaviour and to re-shape the people. We run the projects in consortium with a broad expectations of employees regarding how a good spectrum of other stakeholders, with the aim to create to employer cares for people. share, not to keep. The research and wellbeing self-diagnostic tool developed in collaboration with the EIU can be consulted at https:// www.adeccogroupfoundation.org/innovation-projects/. • Portfolio Career: this project originated within our athlete-focused career programmes (see page 11) and has two objectives: it drives companies to employ a more diverse workforce as well as creates employment opportunities for people in transition from one part of the workforce to another. In 2018, the Foundation piloted a first adaptation of this methodology with the Lucerne Festival Academy, hosting a series of workshops aimed at helping develop the skills, confidence and competencies of young musicians to increase their employability, within and beyond the arts world. We are now looking at ways to adapt and utilise the methodology for further target audiences. The Adecco Group 15 2018 Sustainability Report THE ADECCO GROUP FOUNDATION CONTINUED Global programmes CEO for One Month Our CEO for One Month programme is a unique opportunity to help young people increase their employability and work-readiness by equipping them with the skills and 8.6m experience needed to get a foot on the career ladder Kilometres converted, resulting in a CHF 500,000 while increasing their confidence and exposure. In 2018, the programme received a record of more than 204,000 initial applications. Through a rigorous country-level assessment, 47 talented people were chosen to shadow their donation to Plan International Adecco Group country CEOs, gaining a unique insight into the business and the challenges faced by top executives. Following the global bootcamp for the 10 finalists, the process culminated in the selection of a Global CEO for One Month, Lisa Frommhold, who had the once-in-a-lifetime Win4Youth Win4Youth is our flagship health engagement programme in opportunity to accompany Adecco Group CEO Alain Dehaze partnership with Plan International. It inspires our colleagues, for one month. Lisa has in the meantime joined Modis, the associates and clients all around the world to live an active Adecco Group’s professional solutions brand for IT, and healthy life by engaging in sports in order to drive engineering & life sciences, as junior project manager. positive impact on the lives of young people around the This programme ensures that everyone who participates world. The programme is simple: they do any kind of sports, benefits, not just those who reach the final round. Through log their kms or time spent doing this, and we make a our newly launched Career Centre young people can donation to our global charity partner Plan International. In access an array of advice and information to increase their 2018, thousands of colleagues across the Group logged a employability. Over the coming year we will further record of 8.6 million converted kilometres, resulting in a strengthen the value applicants get through the Career donation of CHF 500,000 to Plan International. Centre, mentorships, and an alumni network, as well as The biggest champions of the programme are our seek to offer more work experience opportunities beyond Win4Youth Ambassadors. Every year, a group of 70+ the programme. Adecco Group colleagues are selected for a life-changing The CEO for One Month programme is complemented by experience: the Olympic-distance Win4Youth Ocean Lava the Adecco Group’s Experience Work Day, when offices triathlon in Lanzarote. In 2018, for the first time two across the Group open their doors to provide a hands-on associates were chosen as ambassadors, reinforcing our taste of the working world for young people. In 2018, 4,000 message of inclusion and outreach. Being an ambassador is Adecco Group employees shared their expertise with truly a life-changing experience, both professionally (by 8,000 young people across 47 countries. gaining better awareness of work-life integration, increasing their confidence, and illustrating team spirit) as well as physically. In 2018 for example, twelve of the ambassadors did not know how to swim before they signed up for the challenge. Global partnerships The Adecco Group and its Foundation work with a number of global and regional organisations to further policies, programmes and practices that support employment and skills across specific communities, following an approach of co-creation and shared value. Examples include Plan International, the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), the Global Alliance for Youth, and the Global Apprenticeship Network. Please see www.adeccogroupfoundation.org for further information on the Foundation’s approach and activities. 16 The Adecco Group 2018 Sustainability Report About this report Addresses This is our thirteenth Sustainability Report, disclosing publicly Registered office our approach on a range of economic, environmental and Adecco Group AG social impacts material to the company and our stakeholders. Bellerivestrasse 30 This report is also submitted as our Communication on CH-8008 Zurich Progress (CoP) to the UN Global Compact of which we have been a signatory since 2003. Contact details Adecco Group AG Our Sustainability Report is complementing and building on Bellerivestrasse 30 what we publish in the Adecco Group 2018 Annual Report. CH-8008 Zurich We continuously seek to understand the concerns of our key T: +41 44 878 88 88 internal and external stakeholders, while taking into account global and industry key trends to prioritise what matters to a Investor Relations sustainable and successful business which adds value to the T: +41 44 878 89 89 world of work. E: investor.relations@adeccogroup.com With regards to our performance, we are measuring data adeccogroup.com/investors from our largest markets and regions. We are thereby Press Office seeking to provide information in line with the reporting T: +41 44 878 87 87 standards issued by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI; see E: press.office@adeccogroup.com the GRI Content Index published on our website) and the sustainability accounting standards for professional and Sustainability commercial services issued by the Sustainability Accounting E: sustainability@adeccogroup.com Standard Board (SASB). In line with the evolution of our sustainability approach as outlined within this report, we will The Adecco Group online also carry on with our efforts to continuously strengthen how https://www.adeccogroup.com and what we measure and report on and where, consistent https://www.adeccogroup.com/sustainability/ with best practice standards on integrated reporting. https://www.adeccogroupfoundation.org
