UN N Glob bal Com mpact Comm municaation on o Proggress 7th t March 2019 Skyyward In nternatioonal Trad de Ltd. No.1, N Corneer of Zawtika Lane & Bayint Naaung Main Road, W Ward (4), Kaamayut, Yaangon, Mya anmar Tel: +95 (01) 5384412, 538413 3, Faxx: +95 (01) 510553 H.E. Baan KiMoonn Secretarry-General United Nations N New Yoork, NY 100 017 USA Dear MMr. Secretaryy-General, I am deelighted to submit thatt Skyward Internationa I al Trade Liimited reafffirms its suppport of thee Ten Priinciples of the Unitedd Nations Global G Commpact, in thee areas of Human Rigghts, Laborr, Environnment and Anticorrupti A ion. In this aannual Commmunicationn on Progreess, we menntioned ourr actions annd activitiess to improvee the inteegration of Global G Com mpact and itts ten princiiples in ourr business strategy, pollicy and day y to day ooperation. We willl continue tot take part in the activvities of thee UN Globaal Compact where apprropriate and d feasibleethrough, participatiion in couuntry and local l netwoorks, involv vement in specialized d initiativves and worrk streams, engagemen nt in partneership projeects, and reviewing annd providing g commenntary to parrticipating companies c on o their Com mmunications on Progrress. Sincerelly yours, U Theinn Win Managiing Directorr Skywarrd Internatioonal Trade Limited. L P a g e 2 | 17 Principple 1: Bussiness shoould support and reespect thee protectio on of inteernationallly proclaiimed hum man rights; Principple 2: Makke sure thaat they aree not compplicit in hu uman righht abuses. We stroongly respeect and folllow the Unniversal Decclaration off Human Rights. R In our Skyward d Internattional Trad de Ltd., alll employeees are enttitled to all a rights and a freedom ms withouut discrimmination of any a kind succh as gendeer race, religgion, skin coolor. From ouro senior managemen m nt to entryy level, we are commiitted to enssuring the pprotection of o human rights that our o business practicees are not coomplicit in any a human right abusees. We infoorm our em mployees intternally aboout new proojects and seeks the vieews of com mmunity and d respect the right too informatioon and particcipation. Thhe internal announcem a ent letters are a sent with h e-mail or put on n board in order to give updaate informaation of coompany. Seminars on n environnmental, soccial and worrkplace issu ues are also provided too employeess. Employyees are parrts of our key assets annd we are most m proud of the grow wth in our people afteer fulfillinng their careeer planningg and development. We W coach and d train our employees e not only foor companny benefit buut also for their t career and life. Em mployees arre also prov vided with trraining such h as induction traininng for new w employeess and the other traininngs such as on the job training, in n house trraining. The extternal trainiings are proovided to em mployees too increase job j satisfacction, to perrform his or her job better andd to build theirt confiddence and tto polish thheir skills. Trainings area given to o concernned departm ment to refreesh their skills and in orrder to imprrove their productive skkills. L Skywarrd Internatioonal Trade Limited w hass (12) mainn branches within the country, c Myyanmar. Wee providee good spaace, enoughh facility to t work inn, equal coompany po olices; working hourss, compennsation & benefit, b exteernal traininngs and othher allowancces are set up by mainn office HR R departm ment to all thhe branchess without discriminationn. Aside from fr the opeen-door andd open workkspace policy which alllows mutual interactioons betweenn colleaguues and theey can worrk happily together. t Furthermore F e, working with manaagers, senior colleaguues from diifficult backkground witth different skills makee an organizzation stronnger and funn work eenvironmentt. Besides, we are proud p to haave long tenure employees, wee value and d P a g e 3 | 17 appreciaate their faaithfulness. We recruiit new empployees andd practice our old em mployees to o welcom me and sharee their experriences withhout differeentiation in order o to reaach same goals. Nyein C Chan Myannmar Bloodd Donation is our mosst proudly one of the CSR activvities. Nyein n Chan Myanmar M Bllood Donatiion Group wasw createdd in 2014 annd we have engaged inn 15th bloodd drives. Until now, our employyees and frieends of com mpany the donated d over (2500) Bllood Bags to o l save thee precious lives. Whilee this hugely t commun y benefits the nity, these blood b drivess also createe bondingg and workpplace happiiness for ouur employeees, teambuillding and th hen they enjjoy a day of n, food, driinking wateer, oral Rehhydration salts, free traansportation s s and shirt with Nyein N Chan n Myanm mar Logo. Thhe employeees have to make m bloodd checking before b donaating the bloood and they y can alsoo know theiir health conndition wheether they canc donate or o not and need n medicaal treatmentt. Our emmployees aree provided health h care and h a we conntribute to thhe right to health. t health of For the employyees, vaccinnations of anti B hep patitis viruus have been given and a medicaal checkups conductted. Skywarrd family allso donatedd the PMG purified p drinnking waterr 0.3-Liter (5016) bottlees , 0.5-Liteer (2000) bottles andd 1-Liter (400) ( bottlees for Myanmar Traditional Bo oxing Festiival, Deboeer Scholarrship Fund Raising R Eveent, Women n Day's eveent, Tournaament Organ nization Myyanmar, Ruun Free competition, etc. e Skywarrd family neever hesitattes in donation. Donatiions have beeen made by b going too places sufffering from m Flood andd providing drinking water w and oth her essentiaals to victim ms of floodds and storm ms. Beside from CSR activities, our o compan ny holds annnual charityy activities according to Myanmaar Traditioonal and cu ulture. Thee Warso occcasion, Thhadingyut offerings, o K Kahtina robbe offerings, Kasone water-offeerings, and donation to o monastic education are examplle for events of charitty activity. P a g e 4 | 17 Interrnal Announceement P a g e 5 | 17 P a g e 6 | 17 P a g e 7 | 17 Vaccin nations off anti B hepatitis virus P a g e 8 | 17 Puriffied Drin nking Waater Botttles Don nation P a g e 9 | 17 P a g e 10 | 17 P a g e 11 | 17 Principple 3: Bussiness shoould uphoold the freeedom of associatio on and thhe effectivve recognnition of th he right too collectivee bargainiing; Principple 4: the eliminatio e on of all foorms of forced and compulsor c ry labor; Principple 5: the effective e a abolition o child laabor; and of Principple 6: the eliminaation of discriminaation in respect of o employyment an nd occupaation. We fullly respect annd support the t right off Freedom of associatioon and colleective bargaining rightss. We proovided the written w term ms and cond ditions of thhe company to all emplloyees accoording to thee law of MMinistry of Labors for responsibiliity of emplooyers and em mployee. We do not force on o labor pollicy. Emplooyees requirre working 44 hours in n a week annd overtimee premium m are paid d accordingg to relatedd law. Empployees aree paid monnthly salaryy and given n overtim me allowancces, travel anda meal alllowances, transportati t ion provisio on. Accordiing to terms and connditions, em mployees cann able to haave yearly leave l entitleements; 6 days d of casuual leave, 100 days off earned leaave, 14 weeeks of materrnity leave,, 15 days off paternity leave, 30 daysd of fullyy paid meedical leavee. Our comppany also giives 7 days of Funerals and Bereaavement leaave which is not menntioned in laabor law. Employees E can c also havve social seccurity insurrances at soccial securityy board. WWe also maake monthlyy birthday party p for em mployees to create moree conveniennt and happyy workingg environm ment with coolleagues annd let them know that all employeees are connsidered parrt of Skywward's Famiily. Our com mpany doess not employ child laboors below thhe age of eiighteen yeaars. All empployees havee right to believe theeir religion and right too take part in public affairs. Empployees can also able to o join Unnion with anny discriminnated againsst for being a Union meember. We empphasize on equality annd non-discrimination such as racce, gender, national, etthnic origin n, marital status and any other occupationa o ally irrelevannt condition n on workers and amoong workerss. We stroongly suppoort and encoourages to female empployees to have h more confidence and to facee the challlenges in liife. We givve fully matternity leavee to the pregnancy wom men accordding to labor law witthout discriimination anda we do not n force too work in. That is thee reason whhy we havee several outstandingg female em mployees in our senior managemen m nt. Then wee employ unndergraduatee P a g e 12 | 17 employyees in orderr them to geet experiencces within their t interesst area or caareer life beefore getting g a degreee and we apppreciate theem who stu udy and worrk together to t success thheir career goal. g P a g e 13 | 17 Principple 7: Bu usiness shhould support a prrecautionaary approaach to ennvironmen nt challennges; Principple 8: undeertake inittiatives to promote greater g ennvironmennt responsiibility; and d Principple 9: enccourage thhe developpment andd diffusion n of envirronmentallly friendlly technoologies. We arraange factory y visit as a one day to our for the new emplooyees and our o custom mers then wee explain how we produce the bottle drinnking water and share knowledgee of reducinng plastic in n makingg water bottlle to save ennvironment. Our com mpany folllows and practices Thhe environm mental Con nservation Law L laid doown in Thee Republiic of the Union of Myyanmar. At company, all the depaartments arre connectedd with locaal networkk and we distribute d thhe internal orders, o meeeting minutes, internall instructionns, etc. withh email oor office outtlook insteaad of copyinng paper. When W we doo print, we use u both siddes of papeer and subbmit our recyclables to appropriatee. Our firsst priority iss not only tot safe the people p but also our ennvironment. The Extingguishers aree also plaaced at the every e cornerr of the room m and the safety traininngs are also o given to emmployees. To suppport the gro owth and deevelopment of green prractices, thee mini-gardeen with the green plantts is placeed in the compound to relievee our emplloyees from m mental fatigue. f Too reduce thhe consummption of fueels, we reguularly mainttain our mootor vehicles and generrators to maake sure theey run efficiently. P a g e 14 | 17 Factoory Visit for New w Employees And Custom mers P a g e 15 | 17 Mini--Garden n with Grreen Plaants In Companyy Compoound P a g e 16 | 17 Principple 10: Buusiness shhould worrk againstt corruptio on in all its forms,, includin ng extortiion and brribery. Skywarrd takes zero o tolerance approach too corruptionn or briberyy. Managem ment sets striict rules and d proceduures that coorruptions are not alllowed to alll levels off employeees. The gift fts or others briberiees are not giiven in the favor f of the performancce of the woork either. Our auddits make audition a to eeach departtment withinn our comppany monthhly, quarterly and yearlly not onlyy the proceddures to meeet the ISO 9001:20155 standard but b also practices to ennsure there is i p no bad practice a in accordance with the annti-corruptioon policy. Then, T the repport of eachh departmennt directlyy goes to topp managem ment for any presence oof bribery. If I there is anny practice that violatees the anti--corruption policy, these are reviewed and takken necessaary action. We alw ways pay Income Taxx Quarterlyy, Commerccial Tax monthly m andd Specific Goods Tax x monthlyy. Then, wee have neverr tried to co ommit bribeery or corru uption and we w do not giive, promisee or offerr to or acceepted from whether w thee governmeent officialss or represeentatives, unnion parities and soccial board. We also do d not makke any corrruption in communicaating to ouur supplierss, customeers and bussiness partnners. Enoug gh training is given to all existing employeees to follow w anti-corrruption pollicy of comppany or not to make anny corruption. If any ccorruption or bribery caase is investtigated or coomplained by b the custoomers, our managemen m nt team takkes action in time by reeviewing thhe documentts or recordds or other evidences. e P a g e 17 | 17 Commmercial Ta ax Certifiication of Skyward d Internattional Traade Ltd. Incom me Tax Ceertification n of Skyw ward Interrnationall Trade Ltd. P a g e 18 | 18
