CSR COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 OUR PROMISE Play is instinctively human. When we are children, play Today, digital technologies change the way we live our is how we have fun, learn, socialise, and are physically lives. This includes why, how, and where we play and are active. As we get older, it’s really the same play is key to physically active as individuals, families, and communia long and happy life. ties. We take responsibility for driving this change, as we have historically to continuously lead the industry and Through our inventions, we have set new global stanreinvent play for everyone’s benefit. dards for ways to play, seeking to create the world’s best playground and sport & ﬁtness solutions. Let’s play! We do this because we have a passion to create healthier and happier communities by inspiring people across the world to play more. We do it the KOMPAN way, where product development is based on thorough research, extensive user involvement, and close collaboration with experts through the KOMPAN Play Institute and KOMPAN Sport & Fitness Institute. We then tailor the right solutions to the speciﬁc user and customer requirements. This creates products that motivate people of all ages and abilities to play more, be more physically active, and learn and socialise more while always having fun. We never compromise on safety and our choice of the highest quality materials creates extremely durable solutions that stand the test of time and weather. We are also conscious that our designs should be beautiful both in their own right and as a contribution to their architectural and natural surroundings. Contents KOMPAN Communication on Progress for 2018 to United Nations Global Compact.............................................................................3 Environment..................................................................................................................4 Climate..........................................................................................................................5 Social ............................................................................................................................6 Human Rights...............................................................................................................9 Anti-corruption.............................................................................................................11 2 WWW.KOMPAN.COM KOMPAN COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR 2018 TO UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Statement of continued support by the CEO TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS: In addition, KOMPAN maintained its environmental proﬁle as reported in earlier COPs and planning of new I am pleased to conﬁrm that KOMPAN reafﬁrms its supinitiatives, which will be implemented in the coming port of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global years. Compact in the areas of Environment, Climate, Social, Human Rights and Anti-Corruption. KOMPAN has maintained its female representation in its Supervisory Board in 2018. KOMPAN will also in the future In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe strive to increase the percentage of the underrepresentour actions to improve the integration of the Global Comed gender on the supervisory board in accordance with pact and its principles into our business strategy continuthe Danish Act on Public and Private Limited Companies. ously, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our Sincerely yours, primary channels of communication. In 2018 implementation of our business ethics policy, including the anti-bribery policy for the entire KOMPAN Connie Astrup-Larsen group of companies continued. Chief Executive Officer WWW.KOMPAN.COM 3 ENVIRONMENT For a brighter future, we never stop investigating ways LOWER WASTE to reduce our environmental footprint. In sourcing, every In the years to come KOMPAN will focus even more on effort is made to use totally sustainable resources or raw how we can minimize the waste of resources and reduce materials generated through recycled waste. In manuenvironmental hazards. facturing, what little waste we have is recycled. In play, 100% safe products are the target and the number one One way to minimize waste is to focus on recycling. In priority. the workshop, material usage is optimised, and the rest is recycled. For example, the cutting-out process of panAs a manufacturer of outdoor playground equipment, els is computer generated in order to minimise residue. KOMPAN has an integrated approach to environmental This, like every offcut of plastic, every speck of sawdust considerations. KOMPAN aims to produce sustainable is gathered and recycled. The KOMPAN EcoCoreTM panel, products with a long lifespan, which require a low level made of layers of HDPE, has many applications in playof maintenance. We aim to use materials and technologrounds and outdoor fitness, such as sides, roofs and gies, that have minimal impact on the environment, and seats. It is a highly durable, eco-friendly panel, which whenever possible we aim to use FSC-certified sources. is not only recyclable after use, but also consists of a core produced from 100% recycled, controlled material. KOMPAN’s production plant in the Czech Republic is ISO Wood-plastic composite panels are used for our Multi 14001 certified, which implies a specific and structured Use Games Areas. These are made of recycled wood management approach to environmental issues. The and HDPE. Besides its green profile, the panel has the plants in the Czech Republic and Germany have furthersame textural look as wood, is highly durable and never more implemented control systems that work for complineeds painting or treating with oil. The high durability ance with requirements on active substances in accesalso minimizes renewal of parts of the playgrounds and sible components, and independent third-party tests are fitness solutions. run. As can be seen from the figure below on the developKOMPAN’s choice of materials are carefully considered. ment in output of wooden waste, plastic waste and iron Robinia is amongst the most prolific of trees, it is strong and steel waste from the main production facility in Brno, and grows rapidly, the perfect partner for our wooden Czech Republic, the ratios have been kept on an almost products. Our Robinia suppliers come from European steady and in some years even decreasing level. plantations and from natural forests operating under responsible sustainable forest management. We also In the future we will strive to reduce the waste output anoffer types of wood certified by FSC®. nually by at least 3% compared to the previous year and to also introduce measurements for the waste output Plastic is a major part of KOMPAN’s production materials, from our other production facilities in Poland and Gerhence it is important to be aware of certain elements. A many. great playground interacts with children, and children touch, jump, slide, kick and might even kiss or lick the playground. That is why all surfaces need to be safe. We go beyond the required outdoor playground standards and comply with the toy standard EN 71-3 for Migration of Certain Elements. 4 WWW.KOMPAN.COM CLIMATE In KOMPAN we have an overall strategy to minimize our At the main production site in the Czech Republic we impact on the climate and we constantly focus on continconstantly work with optimizing in all areas, not only in uing how to reduce our footprint on the climate. It is our terms of waste and use of raw material, but also in terms ambition and part of our core value to show responsibilof energy consumption in the production. This optimizaity in all our actions. KOMPAN assess that our discharge tion is driven by various areas for example by new and of CO2 caused by travel, company cars and energy conmodern production machinery, optimizing workflows sumption has the main influence on the climate and to and planning of production. In 2018 KOMPAN managed reduce this discharge, KOMPAN has strict policies within to lower its consumption of electricity, even though the these areas. production volume increased significantly. From 2017 to 2018 the consumption of electricity, relatively to the proIt is KOMPAN policy for employees only to travel when it duction volume, was reduced from 0.97% to 0.94%. In the is strictly necessary. To minimize travel KOMPAN use confuture, we will strive to keep the optimization in focus and ference rooms and technology to execute virtual meetkeep our electricity consumption relative to the producing via video conference to the largest extent possible. tion volume at less than 1%, a figure which is currently In 2018 there has been an increase in the use of video already met. conferences, which reduced the number of flights at the KOMPAN headquarter with 13% compared to 2017. KOMPAN has also included considerations about climate in our company car policy and therefore also when we lease cars. Climate responsibility and awareness can be executed when leasing cars, therefore all leases must be cars with a maximum CO2 emission limit at 130 g/km. The policy also prescribes that SUV and 4x4 cars are not an option within KOMPAN. WWW.KOMPAN.COM 5 SOCIAL As with human rights, KOMPAN’s primary risks regarding and Safety policy focuses on preventing injuries and illthe fundamental labour standards are at our suppliers. ness, ensuring that we comply with all legal regulations We strive to make sure that none of our cooperating and that we efficiently and actively involve our employparties are complicit in using, for example, child labour, ees in the matter. As an important step in this direction, forced labour or prohibiting the right to association and our largest factory located in Czech Republic is certified collective bargaining. You can read more about our work according to OHSAS 18001 an occupational health and with ensuring our suppliers comply with our guidelines safety management system. This implies that the operunder the section Supplier Code of Conduct. ating practices are up to date and in compliance with health and safety requirements. It further enables our For KOMPAN’s own activities, we aim to make sure that organization to control and gain knowledge of all relwe provide our employees with a safe working environevant risks and hazards, and consequently improves our ment, be that in the headquarters in Odense, Denmark, performance. The latest surveillance audit for our Safety or in the factories in Germany, the Czech Republic and Management System was performed by Bureau Veritas Poland as well as in our sales companies around the in 2016 and passed without any non-conformity findings. world. Occupational health and safety are an equivalent and integral part of all activities of KOMPAN and one of our permanent top priorities. Our Occupational Health 6 WWW.KOMPAN.COM SAFE WORKING ENVIROMENT SICK LEAVE The amount of lost hours related to accidents (LTA: Lost KOMPAN is a workplace with a focus on the employees’ Time Accidents) remained at a low level in 2018, despite physical and mental working environment conditions. the significant increase in new employees related to the A good example of this is the health insurance, which growth in volume. LTA increased to 4.592 hours (2.456 is offered to all our employees. The health insurance hours in 2017), corresponding to 0.82% (0.55% in 2017) of provides, among other things, the opportunity to receive the total production time. No serious injuries happened treatment, physiotherapy, stress management etc. in the company in 2018. We look with great interest at sick leave and strive to The increase in LTA is mainly explained by the significant reduce short-term and long-term sick leave through preincrease in newcomers, especially in the wood processvention and close dialogue with sick leaved employees ing department (Robinia) where the risk of accidents with a view to recovery and a quick return to work. is highest. To focus even more on safety, the 6 Safety standards (6S standards) has been implemented. The In 2018, sick leave in KOMPAN remained at a low level sustainability of 6S standards will be ensured through and below the target of 2% for white-collar employees. regular audits to identify possible risks. Our aim is to In KOMPAN A/S, the sick leave increased to 1.5% (2017: prevent accidents and production time loss in the entire 0.8%), which is explained by an increase in long-term plant. sick leave. Similarly, in the main production unit, sick leave for white collars increased slightly to 0.8% (2017: We will continue a structured and managed approach to 0.6%). For blue-collars in the main production, the sick work actively for a safe and healthy working environment leave decreases to 3.7% (2017: 4.6%) in 2018 with an amfor our employees and strive to retain LTA below 1% in bition of maximum 5%. 2019. The focus on work safety will especially be in wood processing where the exposure to injuries is the highest. WWW.KOMPAN.COM 7 GENDER DISTRIBUTION mately 26% women (2017: 26%) and 74% men (2017: 74%). In accordance with the Danish Act on Public and Private Limited Companies, the Supervisory Board has set a The Group will continually strive to increase the number target for increasing the percentage of the underrepreof women in the global management and in the mansented gender on the supervisory board and outlined agement of KOMPAN A/S and its subsidiaries by 2025. a policy to increase the level of the underrepresented The management has a mutual responsibility of identifygender in other managerial functions. The deﬁnition of ing and developing employees with an aspiration of a managers is “managers with staff responsibility or mancareer within management and/or area responsibility agers with special strategic responsibilities in corporate and/or development of specialists within their ﬁeld. In the functions”. selection process, management has focus on the overall responsibility of a well-balanced gender distribution The management has decided to report on target numin the future management level without compromising bers and policies for the underrepresented gender in abilities, ambitions and talent. the companies of the Group comprised by the rules, i.e. KOMPAN Holding A/S and KOMPAN A/S and its subsidiWith one woman appointed as member of the Board of aries. Directors of KOMPAN Holding A/S and KOMPAN A/S, the goal of 25% representation of women on the Board of DiThe global gender distribution by the end of 2018 was rectors by 2020 is met. Excluding the staff elected board approximately 66% men (2017: 68%) and 34% women members, the Board of Directors of both KOMPAN Hold(2017: 32%). The proportion of women in group manageing A/S and KOMPAN A/S is represented by one woman ment constituted 33% (2017: 25%) and in the manageand two men in both companies. ment of KOMPAN A/S and its subsidiaries with approxi8 WWW.KOMPAN.COM HUMAN RIGHTS At KOMPAN, we are committed to support and respect it highly inclusive, supporting a wide variety of body internationally declared human rights, and not to be positions: children and adults can sit, lie, or stand while complicit in any human rights abuses. Our largest chalspinning. The transparency of the Galaxy products and lenges and risks in terms of human rights are found in the varied ground-level access and activities also create our global value chain. We have suppliers located in centres of play across the play unit. This makes possible Asia, which usually implies higher risks of human rights play interaction for all, everywhere in the structure. The violations occurring, for example, in terms of working open design ensures wheelchair accessibility. hours or labour rights. In order to manage these risks KOMPAN has developed a Supplier Code of Conduct, So, when designers turn an original idea into a concept, which all suppliers must commit to and sign. Our work there is one golden aim, that everyone takes something with the code of conduct and suppliers is elaborated positive out of visit to a KOMPAN playground. Good further below. health, like play, is for everyone. Article 31 (Leisure, play and culture): Children have the Article 2 (definition): “Universal design” means the design right to relax and play, and to join in a wide range of of products, environments, programs and services to cultural, artistic and other recreational activities. (UN be usable by all people, to the greatest extent possible, Convention on the Rights of the Child) without the need for adaptation or specialized design. (United Nations’ Convention on the Rights of Persons with Through our business activity, KOMPAN supports the Disabilities) UN’s Convention on the Rights of the Child. On a daily basis, our products encourage and enable children to The World Health Organization has truly set its eyes on play and be active, and this has beneficial impact on children’s physical activity level and motor skills. Why? their development in terms of motor coordination, inResearch documents that physical activity is elementary tellect, and social skills. Our playgrounds also play an for all other developmental areas of early childhood and important role in the efforts against physical inactivity, that early-years development and learning investments overweight and obesity among children and teenagers. give the best ROI for society. KOMPAN takes on KOMPAN wishes to develop playgrounds, which will help the responsibility for motivating and scaffolding physical improve the physique of the children in a safe and fun play and motor skills in children. For their well-being now surrounding. – and for the future of our societies. KOMPAN continuously develops and advances our concepts and products. We do this based on the knowledge USER -CE NT we gather in KOMPAN Play Institute where, among other RIC DE SI things we do studies on children’s play. USER-CEN GN & PH TRIC YS T MEN IC In 2018, KOMPAN expanded its outdoor sport and fitness RES LOP LEA RN ITY concept even further, which will have numerous positive EA IN TIV VE AC DE G RC AL effects on both children and adults. H HAPPIER & HEALTHIER KOMPAN’s playgrounds and fitness sites must be for all. SOCIETIES Inclusive play is at the very core of everything KOMPAN aims for. The result is universal designs that embrace SO the needs of all. In universal playgrounds, all children CIA L I N TE R A C TI O N can play on their own together with peers or with their parents. There is no need for segregated areas, which might have a stigmatizing effect. For example, the top PLAY-VALUE frame and spacious platform of the Tipi Carousel makes WWW.KOMPAN.COM 9 SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT conduct, the engagement will not be made, or the existAs a global manufacturer of outdoor playground equiping agreement will be terminated. ment KOMPAN must comply with a number of standards in terms of product safety and environment. It is thereKOMPAN takes a risk-based approach to our suppliers. fore central to us that our suppliers adhere to the same This means that our suppliers are grouped according standards as we do. Our supplier code of conduct deto the risks associated with the characteristics of their scribes the requirements KOMPAN expects all our suppligeographical location. We have some suppliers from ers to adhere to and comply with. The code of conduct is Asia, which we associate with higher risks than possibly based on the principles of the UN Global Compact and suppliers located in Europe. To manage this, we work to covers the following areas: audit the high-risk suppliers at least once a year. At the supplier audits, which are either carried out by KOMPAN Child labour, discrimination, forced labour, working enviemployees or by third party auditors, a standardised ronment, working hours and salary, the right to organize questionnaire is developed, which supports the auditor and collective bargaining, right to privacy, environment in including all aspects of our code of conduct are dis(pollution prevention and resource reduction, chemicals cussed during the visit. and hazardous materials, air emissions, waste water and solid waste, recycling and reuse of materials and In 2018, more than 99% our suppliers of raw materials or products), and corruption. components have signed the code of conduct, meeting the target set of more than 95%. When making new or renewing contracts the supplier must conﬁrm and commit to complying with the code of conduct. If the supplier cannot or will not sign the code of 10 WWW.KOMPAN.COM ANTI-CORRUPTION Corruption and bribery are recognized as barriers to In 2018, KOMPAN commenced training in our Business sustainable development and free trade. At KOMPAN, ethics policy, including an anti-bribery policy for all we do not accept these practices and therefore do not employees in the group. The policy concerns bribery, accept any kind of undue payment in any of our busifacilitation payments, gifts/entertainment, political contriness transactions. It is our policy that all elements of our butions and charity contributions. Furthermore, the policy supply chain and sale must be completely transparent to concerns conflicts of interest, treatment of confidential everyone interested in knowing more. Principles to work information and competition law compliance. against anti-corruption are integrated in the supplier code of conduct. KOMPAN will continue to develop its focus on compliance issues through the coming years. Anti-corruption is still a relatively new area for KOMPAN in terms of working actively with the issue in our own activities. WWW.KOMPAN.COM 11 Visit KOMPAN’s website for more financial information Use your QR scanner or download a free application to your mobile: http://reader.kaywa.com www.KOMPAN.com KOMPAN A/S C.F. Tietgens Boulevard 32C DK-5220 Odense SØ Denmark Tel.: +45 63 62 12 50 E-mail: info@KOMPAN.com CVR. nr. 40 55 98 17
