COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) Period covered by your Communication on Progress (COP) From: March 1, 2018 To: March 1, 2019 1. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER (OWNER OR PRESIDENT IN THE CASE OF SMALL BUSINESSES) February 15, 2019 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Development Transformations, a veteran-owned, small business reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Sloan Mann, President 1 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS AND MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Principles Description of Actions Measurement of Outcomes • DT trains all employees in CAN Beyond HR protocols • DT’s Home Office staff have collectively complete 150 related to workplace harassment, discrimination, and hours of workplace harassment and discrimination • Principle 1: Businesses should sexual harassment on an annual basis. training. support and respect the protection of • DT adheres to U.S. Agency for International • DT has fulfilled its security goals for the last year, with internationally proclaimed human Development, UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office, zero incidents of staff injury and daily communication Human rights. and other funder do no harm policies in all programs to of security threats in fluid environments. Rights • Principle 2: Make sure that they are ensure the safety, security and wellbeing of all direct • DT has vetted and cleared over 50 local and not complicit in human rights staff and program participants. international partners ensuring that they uphold our abuses. • DT vets all third-party service providers through Visual human rights standards. This is an internal requirement Compliance to ensure local partners meet requirements for working with individuals, groups and organizations. and human rights standards are met and upheld. • DT has implemented hiring policies in our handbook • DT has hired over 20 new staff members, both • Principle 3: Businesses should that adhere to FAR cause 22.8 ensuring equal domestically and internationally, over the last year, uphold the freedom of association employment opportunities for all applicants, adhering to equal opportunity for all based on sex, race, and the effective recognition of the employees, contractors, and grantees. country of origin, sexual orientation, religious right to collective bargaining. • DT adheres to FAR part 22 principles and guidelines background, etc. • Principle 4: The elimination of all on employee labour policies, safety standards and wage • DT abides by all work safety standards domestically forms of forced and compulsory policies. and internationally, and adjusts policies to local Labour labour. • DT vets all third-party service providers through Visual contexts in Yemen, Syria, Libya, and other fluid • Principle 5: The effective abolition Compliance to ensure local partners meet requirements environments. Similarly, DT abides by all wage of child labour. and labour standards are met and upheld. standards for 20 domestic and 60 international staff • Principle 6: The elimination of members. discrimination in respect of • DT vets all partners to ensure they meet local labour employment and occupation. standards and has worked to uphold this standard in 8 countries over the last year. • DT adheres to FAR part 23.1, 23.2, and 23.3, which • DT has implemented 8 grants and activities in Syria • Principle 7: Businesses should work to minimize environmental impact of working with infrastructure rehabilitation and Environment support a precautionary approach to programming and promote sustainable use of natural monitoring over the last year. DT ensures that all environmental challenges. resources. monitored programs hit environmental compliance 2 • Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to • DT programming performs and tracks rehabilitation of standards and that all rehabilitation activities and promote greater environmental infrastructure including water pipes and roads in order grants provide the greatest impact possible, without responsibility. to increase equipment efficiency and monitor misusing natural resources or harming the • Principle 9: Encourage the environmental impact environment. development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. • DT adheres to annual audits to ensure that financials • DT conducted annual audits to ensure organizational are tracked properly and that money is not misused or and programmatic funds were tracked and used mismanaged and requires local and international correctly. Additionally, DT continued to comply with partners to adhere to reporting standards to avert audits from donors when requested. • Principle 10: Businesses should corruption. • DT has worked with over 10 organizations in Syria, Antiwork against corruption in all its • DT works with local organizations to build their Libya, and Iraq to build their capacity to successfully Corruption forms, including extortion and capacity to properly manage operations and establish function in conflict environments, while fighting bribery. systems and processes that ensure financial oversight corruption in their communities. and fight corruption in their local communities. • DT has vetted over 100 organizations and consultants • DT vets all third-party service providers and partners in the past year to ensure they comply with DT’s to ensure that they are not involved with potentially organizational anti-corruption standards. corrupt activities or groups. 3
