UN Global Compact Communication in Progress Transforming and Evolving 2018 Highlights 2018 HIGHLIGHTS TRANSFORMING AND EVOLVING 2 Each Interaction Matters “A new major step in the transformation has been achieved.” Daniel Julien Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer In recent years, we have set the Group on the path to transformation by diversifying our business into high addedvalue services, while achieving strong growth. In 2018, a new major step in the transformation was achieved. We completed the acquisition of Intelenet in early October, and I am extremely pleased to welcome Intelenet and its 55,000 employees to the Teleperformance family. We share the same values, which are the foundation of the Group’s development and transformation, and the same passion for service and strategic vision. Intelenet’s integrated services and its expertise in the digital transformation of companies significantly strengthen Teleperformance’s offerings. Intelenet’s impressive position in Asia, particularly in India, is also an opportunity for us to massively increase our presence in this promising market. The integration of Intelenet marks a decisive step towards enhancing Teleperformance’s specialized business services and deploying the long-term strategy. A new entity, Digital Integrated Business Services (D.I.B.S.), has been set up as well. Its mission is to support the development of integrated high-value services in digital transformation. In early September, Teleperformance also unveiled its new visual identity and logo, in line with a truly global Group in which innovation and technology play a central role in support of the human experience. Resolutely modern, multicultural, and digital, this new identity reflects the evolution of the Group through the years. In the midst of this transformation, Teleperformance continues to post sustained business growth, showcasing its unique global leadership and diversified business profile that enable value creation. From a human perspective that relates to our commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), I am pleased to let you know that Teleperformance was included in both the Vigeo Eurozone 120 and FTSE4Good Indexes. Teleperformance also recently attained its fifth consecutive global third party certification from Verego. Teleperformance is a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact, which we fully support and embrace, as evidenced by the aggregate of our CSR policies and actions. We are active participants in helping create jobs around the world through actions that include the Global Impact Sourcing Initiative. Both our award-winning Citizen of the World (philanthropic) and Citizen of the Planet (environmental) programs are considered to be groundbreaking benchmark community service best practices examples for our industry. Our COTW initiative reached a major milestone last year as we surpassed $40MM USD in cash and in-kind donations. Our CSR policies, processes, programs, and procedures are reviewed regularly by our senior executives and are internally and independently examined periodically. This undertaking includes audits and assessments by a variety of stakeholders, as well as clients and independent third parties to ensure accuracy, transparency, and best practices leadership. In short, we are proud to be and remain committed to being a global cross-industry CSR best practices benchmark. This report is a summary of our 2018 results, which we are very proud to share with our clients, shareholders, key stakeholders, and, of course, our globally diverse family of over 300,000 wonderful people in 80 countries. Thank you for making us a stronger company, together. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS TRANSFORMING AND EVOLVING CONTENTS 3 1 We Blend Technology with Empathy 5 TRANSCENDING CULTURAL BARRIERS 7 THE BEST PARTNER 8 NEW VISUAL IDENTITY 9 AWARDS 11 OUR GLOBAL ENGAGEMENT INITIATIVES 2 We Treat Your Business Like Our Own 19 OUR PORTFOLIO 22 PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT 26 INFORMATION SECURITY 29 TELEPERFORMANCE CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE LAB (CX LAB) 333 We Support the Communities Where We Work and Live SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 34 CITIZEN OF THE WORLD 36 CITIZEN OF THE PLANET 38 THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2018 HIGHLIGHTS TRANSFORMING AND EVOLVING 4 Blending Technology with Empathy Technology has become a powerful Customers today demand and crave Our values promote a working tool in increasing productivity, the many benefits technology brings, environment that is safe and secure providing information, enhancing and at the same time, also expect for everyone. accuracy, and reducing errors. Its role to receive reassurance, be treated Throughout this time of in the ever-changing markets has with respect, and most of all, receive digital transformation, we at contributed to a lot of opportunities empathy when and where it matters Teleperformance take pride in our for both customers and brands to the most. “high-tech, high-touch” approach, improve the once simple process Teleperformance recognizes the which includes omnichannel of buying, offering, or selling. Now, importance of blending technology solutions that fully utilize the power customers know what they want with empathy. Our recent acquisition of innovation, the productivity of and are smarter with their buying of Intelenet is our way of maximizing bots, and the details that analytics decisions, thanks to the Internet, productivity, while welcoming more offer. We remain firm in our belief while brands are able to elevate sophisticated business services that tiny acts of human empathy their products or services through and outsourcing solutions. Our can go a long way in creating the use of technology and through aim of making each interaction relationships that inspire brand innovation. matter resonates in the way we loyalty and elevate the customer’s We can’t deny how the digital train our people, allowing them to overall experience. atmosphere has made a strong develop their emotional intelligence, Are you ready to move forward impact in modern times. However, active listening skills, well-being, and make a positive impact in when it comes to customer communication, and personal your customers’ journey through experience, it should be noted how growth. Teleperformance’s balance of customers still value the meaning of technology and human interactions? connections and the importance of personalized attention. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS TRANSFORMING AND EVOLVING TRANSCENDING CULTURAL BARRIERS 5 Our global, talented team delivers the right solution and answer through the right channel at the right time. We know how to leverage technology, while providing a human touch during each interaction. We provide Present in We serve services in 80 170+ 265 300K+ countries markets languages and employees dialects 2018 HIGHLIGHTS TRANSFORMING AND EVOLVING TRANSCENDING CULTURAL BARRIERS 6 1Introducing a New Look 2 Employees of Every 3Combining High-Tech and for Teleperformance Nationality, Working Together High-Touch with Digital in a Single Location Integrated Business Services We are pleased to present Teleperformance is the pioneer in the In 2018, Teleperformance advanced Teleperformance’s new, and we think eyedevelopment of multilingual hubs that its work in pursuing digital solutions by popping, look. While always honoring provide large multinational groups with acquiring Intelenet. Intelenet is a global what we’ve done, we know that we have dedicated and optimized omnichannel leader in business services and digital a bright future ahead of us, finding solutions for customer experience transformation solutions with a vast new ways to improve the omnichannel management. These centers bring knowledge that includes automation, customer experience and serving our together employees of all nationalities Robotic Process Automation (RPA), a bestclients the best way we know how. Our in one place to serve Pan-European in-class operational framework, and a goal is to create an empowered and and Pan-Asian programs. A true comprehensive range of service offerings lasting relationship between customers differentiating factor, Teleperformance’s to meet client needs. With Intelenet´s and their favorite brands; always multilingual offerings serve 140 markets acquistion, Teleperformance in India, delivering the best quality services with in more than 40 different languages from established in 2001, has evolved from the highest security standards. five regional hubs located in Portugal, the a leading provider of outsourced Our new look is a nod to the future—a Netherlands, Greece, Malaysia, omnichannel customer experience to distinctive, bold effort to remind our and Egypt. Digital Integrated Business Services partners that we are always working (D.I.B.S.) and Transformation Solutions “Finding a location for a multilingual hub for them, always fighting to deliver provider. Teleperformance D.I.B.S. is is not as simple as it sounds. A hub needs outstanding services on their behalf. focused on developing transformation to be established in an attractive and strategies that enrich customer We are here to welcome, listen to, stable region that has an educated and experience, improve efficiency, reduce engage with, and amaze each person multicultural population.” costs of support, and explore new with whom we connect. This is what — João Cardoso, Chief Research and opportunities for businesses across makes the world a better place and Development and Digital Integration the globe. strengthens bonds across countries Officer of Teleperformance Group and and cultures. CEO of Teleperformance in Portugal. Overall, Teleperformance offers pioneering CX services supported by This is the future of Teleperformance. Analytics, Technology, Innovation, Each Interaction Matters. Automation, and RPA, which enable hybrid Omnichannel Customer Engagement, best-in-class Business Process Optimization, and Digital Transformation Solutions. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS TRANSFORMING AND EVOLVING THE BEST PARTNER 7 One Solid Team We are a company moved by passion and values. Every day, we transform our passion into different actions to ensure our people are delivering outstanding customer experiences at every single opportunity. We are one solid team. We share the same values and principles, which guide our actions inside and outside of the company. Our Genetic Code Cosmos Earth Metal Air Fire Integrity Respect Professionalism Innovation Commitment I say what I do, I treat others I do things right the I create and I’m passionate and I do what I say. with kindness very first time. improve. engaged. and empathy. OUR MISSION: At Teleperformance, we deliver an outstanding customer experience at every single opportunity as a result of our commitment, passion, and dedication to excellence. In so doing, we create opportunities and value for employees, clients, customers, communities, and shareholders. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS TRANSFORMING AND EVOLVING NEW VISUAL IDENTITY 8 New Visual Identity In September, Teleperformance unveiled its new visual identity and logo, in line with its status as a genuinely global Group where innovation and technology play a central role in support of the human experience. The abbreviated reference to Teleperformance (TP), will be used across the updated visual materials, including the revamped website. This new visual identity stands for what Teleperformance is today and the transformation it has undertaken throughout the years. Meanwhile, the logo symbolizes the trust, loyalty, and empathy ­extended to everyone who helps make the business successful—our employees, clients and their customers, partners, and shareholders. The flexibility and modularity of this new visual identity serve as reminders to our partners that we are fully committed to working alongside them, providing the best customer experience services on their behalf. “Teleperformance understands, now more than ever, that the human touch is essential to creating and sustaining lasting relationships between customers and their favorite brands. We believe that the new visual identity is innovative, flexible and adaptable, contemporary, convivial, and warm: even if we interact with millions of customers on each channel each year, we know that each interaction is unique, as it meets the needs of each individual, with his or her own preferences and needs.” Daniel Julien Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 2018 HIGHLIGHTS TRANSFORMING AND EVOLVING AWARDS 9 Our team’s hard work and dedication pay dividends. Without them, we would not be as successful as we are. In fact, we continue to receive recognition all over the world, all thanks to our people. The entire list of awards can be found at www.teleperformance.com. But, here are just a few of the accolades we received in the past year: FROST & SULLIVAN Teleperformance Teleperformance Teleperformance Teleperformance Teleperformance was named Frost was awarded received the 2018 in Brazil was in Argentina & Sullivan’s 2018 Frost & Sullivan’s Growth Excellence honored with the received the 2018 European Contact 2018 Competitive Leadership Award 2018 Competitive Argentinian Contact Center Outsourcing Strategy and from Frost & Sullivan Innovation and Center Outsourcing Company of the Leadership Award for the Contact Center Leadership Award Services Company Year. for Global Security Outsourcing Service in the contact center of the Year Award and Compliance. Industry in China. outsourcing industry from Frost & by Frost & Sullivan. Sullivan. GREAT PLACE TO WORK® (GPTW) Great Place to Work®, Teleperformance Teleperformance in the Teleperformance in the in Colombia was Dominican Republic in partnership with Philippines was honored recognized as a Great received its fourth IT Media, honored for the first time by Great Place to Work For by the consecutive Great Place Teleperformance in Place to Work®. Great Place to Work® to Work® certification. Brazil as one of the Best Institute. Companies to Work For. Teleperformance in Teleperformance Teleperformance in Mexico was certified Recognized as One of the Portugal was recognized for the first time at the Best Companies to Work as a Best Company to country level as a Great For in Greater China 2018 Work For by the Great Place to Work®. by Great Place to Work® Place to Work® Institute. Institute. Intelenet Global Services Teleperformance Teleperformance was recognized as a in Mexico Nearshore was in El Salvador was Great Place to Work For recognized as a Great recognized as a Great by the Great Place to Place to Work For by the Place to Work For by the Work® Institute. Great Place to Work® Great Place to Work® Institute. Institute. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS TRANSFORMING AND EVOLVING AWARDS 10 AON Teleperformance was recognized as a 2018 Aon Best Employer in seven countries: Albania, Guyana, India, Lithuania, Morocco, Tunisia, and its TLScontact activity in Lebanon. BPTW VEREGO Teleperformance in Lebanon, Morocco, Teleperformance was awarded the Tunisia, and Albania was recognized as Enterprise-wide Certification for Social the Best Place to Work®. Responsibility by Verego for the fifth consecutive year. EVEREST GROUP For the sixth consecutive year, Teleperformance was recognized as a Global Leader in the Everest Group Contact Center Outsourcing (CCO) Service Provider Landscape with PEAK Matrix™ Assessment. According to Everest, Teleperformance stood out in a number of ways. The company posted exceptional growth, always innovating and seeking to improve. ECCCSAs GCC GSA Teleperformance was the only company to win five major 2018 European Contact Center & Customer Service Awards (ECCCSAs), including Best Multilingual Contact Center of the Year. Teleperformance D.I.B.S. Teleperformance D.I.B.S. was honored as Best won the prestigious Employer Brand and Best Customer Experience BPO Firm at the GCC Best Provider of the Year Employer Brand Awards accolade at GSA Awards Teleperformance Teleperformance 2018. and Summit 2018. in Russia won Best in Greece won Large Outsourcing Best Multilingual Partnership. Contact Center of the Year. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS TRANSFORMING AND EVOLVING OUR GLOBAL ENGAGEMENT INITIATIVES 11 Motivating a Great Team We know that happy employees make all the difference when it comes to delivering exceptional customer service. Through programs, engagement initiatives, and internal campaigns, we strive to make the people who are the foundation of our business proud to be on our team. Here’s a little bit of what we did in 2018. The happiness of our employees at work is Teleperformance’s main goal. That is why we organize themed parties for them every year. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS TRANSFORMING AND EVOLVING OUR GLOBAL ENGAGEMENT INITIATIVES 12 A Rockin’ Decade of Fun From breathtaking songs to slick dance moves, to inspiring works of art and photography—For Fun Festival was back for the 10th time to recognize and celebrate the creative talents of our people around the globe. An annual event of Teleperformance, For Fun Festival is open to all of our active employees who are raring to share their passion for art, dance, music, and photography. The grand winner in the global competition gets to bring home a whopping $6,000. Teleperformance is a people company. Our people represent us, make us successful, and make us proud. For Fun Festival not only highlights our different nationalities and cultures, but also embraces our people, their families, and their friends, creating a special worldwide bond. Art Dance Music Photography TOTAL 1,012 Participants 1,465 Participants 2,376 Participants 995 Participants 5,848 Participants 2018 HIGHLIGHTS TRANSFORMING AND EVOLVING OUR GLOBAL ENGAGEMENT INITIATIVES 13 For Fun Festival 2018 Global Winners Art Dance MOROCCO ARGENTINA Ayoub Ouaddi Jesus Maximiliano Nieto Music Photography USA UK Colton Gibson Nathan Whittaker 2018 HIGHLIGHTS TRANSFORMING AND EVOLVING OUR GLOBAL ENGAGEMENT INITIATIVES 14 We believe that building sports teams teaches our people the value of teamwork, passion, and connecting with one another. SPORT CLUB Hustle and Heart We care about the health and happiness of our employees. That’s why at Teleperformance, we see sports as a great way to experience healthy activities. This, while celebrating our national and cultural diversity, including the incredible athleticism that is present throughout the global Teleperformance team. The Teleperformance Sport Club is a worldwide program promoting sports as a tool for physical well-being and higher quality of life. It is also a means to build a culture of teamwork. By motivating our people to play and have fun, we are also encouraging them to cooperate with others towards a common goal—to achieve peak performance and experience success. Sport Club 2018: 5,556 1,955 1,923 1,052 1,722 TOTAL Participants Participants in Soccer in Basketball Participants in Volleyball Participants in Bowling Participants in Other 12,208 sports Participants 2018 HIGHLIGHTS TRANSFORMING AND EVOLVING OUR GLOBAL ENGAGEMENT INITIATIVES 15 Getting Our Game On PARTIAL LIST TP IN BRAZIL TP IN THE PHILIPPINES TP IN TURKEY Teleperformance in Brazil held its Our homegrown gamers from Everyone was a winner in much-anticipated Teleperformance Teleperformance in the Philippines, Teleperformance in Turkey’s 2018 Cup to promote sportsmanship and Antipolo site battled it out on Mobile Istanbul Bowling Tournament. Bearing camaraderie through the beautiful game Legends, a multiplayer mobile game creative team names, our bowlers made of football. Participating teams were that pits players against each other in a strikes, picked up spares, and had a cheered on by colleagues, friends, and real-time battle. Hundreds of spectators grand time. family. flocked to the live game event, which aimed to boost employees’ competitive spirit and encourage a positive winning attitude. TP IN GERMANY TP IN SOUTH AFRICA TP IN USA Scoring a podium finish in the 2018 There is no such thing as all work and Teleperformance in the USA, Columbia CC-Club Kart Cup was the goal of no play in Teleperformance in South site hosted a basketball tournament Teleperformance in Germany’s cart team. Africa as our employees, cue sticks at the between accounts that quickly became Only in their second year of participation, ready, came together for a friendly yet a family event. Winners received custom placing third was definitely an incredible ultracompetitive pool tournament. T-shirts, a trophy, and a slot at the feat. Boarder Bash where they faced off with the Augusta site. Overall, the event was a fun experience for everyone and a good opportunity to fuel team spirit among colleagues. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS TRANSFORMING AND EVOLVING OUR GLOBAL ENGAGEMENT INITIATIVES 16 Living Strong Passion 4U is a worldwide program that reinforces the true meaning of “pride in belonging,” bringing a new look to the anti-stress initiatives of the Teleperformance Group. It also features a range of wellness activities that promote health literacy, fitness, and happiness at work. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS TRANSFORMING AND EVOLVING OUR GLOBAL ENGAGEMENT INITIATIVES 17 Better Health through Better Living PARTIAL LIST TP IN SPAIN TP IN TUNISIA TP IN PORTUGAL Teleperformance in Spain’s 230-strong Since July 2018, our employees in Our colleagues from Teleperformance Seville contingent took to the streets and Teleperformance in Tunisia have been in Portugal carried out another trekking raced to the finish in the Carrera de la reaping the benefits of yoga, laughter, activity in Praia da Samarra. They had the Mujer. It was indeed a day of solidarity, and meditation. Once-a-week sessions in opportunity to walk by the beach, enjoy sportsmanship, and determination. all our sites have proven truly helpful in the sun, and have fun. Kudos to our team. promoting positive attitude and wellness among our dedicated workforce. TP IN BRAZIL TP IN GERMANY Teleperformance in Brazil supported Together with DAK, Teleperformance pregnant employees by offering in Germany held its first health day monthly lectures related to childcare and in Mönchengladbach. The goal was other issues new parents face. Nurses, to educate our people about health, obstetricians, and gynecologists offered prevention, and nutrition. Everyone had their expertise throughout the year to a lot of fun, especially with the drunk more than 250 employees. buster impairment goggles. TP IN THE PHILIPPINES Our colleagues in Teleperformance in the Philippines, Cebu site cooked up a storm in the Cook-off Challenge, showcasing their culinary skills in celebration of health and wellness. Teleperformance also runs awareness campaigns to promote: healthy eating good posture mini marathons massage therapy for stress relief 2018 HIGHLIGHTS TRANSFORMING AND EVOLVING OUR GLOBAL ENGAGEMENT INITIATIVES 18 Teleperformance University (TPU) was created to train our business executives in This year, we integrated even the key subjects related to managing and understanding our core business, as well more of our companies into as to prepare them to implement major changes in our business, while staying the program, with employees totally aligned with our strategic objectives. Furthermore, it ensures that all of our from Teleperformance, teams share the same values and perfectly understand our culture. Praxidia, TLScontact, Alliance A personalized college course created to develop our future leaders, all our highOne, and LanguageLine potential executives and leading managers have access to TPU. Solutions participating. 40 participants representing 14 countries 2018 HIGHLIGHTS TRANSFORMING AND EVOLVING OUR PORTFOLIO 19 Creating the Right Omnichannel Customer Experience Digital transformation is happening right now. Customers can receive service on any channel at any time. Teleperformance knows that each customer is different. They want to be treated as unique individuals who are valued. Designing the right omnichannel strategy is about more than just having the right channels. We help companies design and implement the right strategies by providing our core and specialized services, which can help improve customer relationships and business outcomes. Some of our products: Digital Integrated Back-Office Analytics Solutions Web Channels Business Services Services In Touch Live Interaction Smart Cast Semi-Automated Robotic Process Automation (RPA) On Target Machine Learning, Artificial Intelligence (AI) Business Intelligence Social Media Best Location VIP Data Management, Involve Work-at-Home and Specialized Transformation, and Integration Buzz Monitoring Offshore and Nearshore Solutions Insights Multilingual Hubs Desktop Automation and Moderation Mobility Solutions Engagement 2018 HIGHLIGHTS TRANSFORMING AND EVOLVING OUR PORTFOLIO 20 Powering Innovation through Digital Transformation and Automation Teleperformance Digital Integrated Business Services (D.I.B.S.) offers What do we offer? pioneering Technology Innovation • Intelligent Technology and Next-gen Automation Solutions and Digital Transformation services. • Process Optimization and Operational Excellence • Enhanced Customer Engagement and Loyalty We provide integrated business • Cost Efficiency and Increased Productivity solutions that transform Customer Engagement, Customer Acquisition, Data Analytics, Technical Support, Our Value Proposition: Shared Services, IT and Infrastructure Operational Excellence: Best-in-class service delivery engine that Management, and Back-Office results in profitable and risk-mitigated business outcomes Services across diverse industry Process Optimization and Automation: Robotic Process Automation (RPA) verticals and digital channels. technology tools, and platforms for delivering transformational benefits With deep domain knowledge, Global Delivery: Robust delivery platform, with 46 delivery centers in key locations transformative digital capabilities like TAPTM (Technology, Analytics, and Process Consulting), and a best-in-class operational network, we empower our clients to deliver outstanding customer experiences in today’s increasingly digital world. We work collaboratively with our clients to understand how to adapt to today’s disruptive digital innovations and build digital business strategies that create long-term growth. While our Robotics, Artificial Intelligence (AI), and web-based applications help automate and optimize business processes and customer management for a diversified group of industries, we also help organizations “Go Green” by making them paperless. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS TRANSFORMING AND EVOLVING OUR PORTFOLIO 21 Integrated Business Services Praxidia Knowledge Services We offer omnichannel integrated business services We offer consulting and knowledge services for process powered by transformational tools and the latest re-engineering and automation to support strategic technology like AI, Robotics, Speech Analytics, etc. initiatives and tactical business requirements with Lean We specialize in providing enhanced customer Six Sigma methodologies and workforce optimization. experience, with services that include: • Consulting/Knowledge Services • Customer Management Services Engagement, • Enterprise Feedback Management Conversion Optimization, Personalization, Upselling and Cross-Selling, Chat Support, and Customer Service • Training Solutions • Industry-Specific Transaction Processing – Corporate • Analytics Banking, Mortgage Underwriting, Claims Processing, Payment Remediation, Fraud Detection and Prevention, Complaints/Refund/Returns Management, Revenue Cycle Compliance, Privacy, Management Medical Coding, Content Curation, etc. • Finance and Accounting and HR Services – and Security F&A Transformation and Optimization, Risk We comply with security standards and regulations, Management, Resource Management, Payroll including the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) Services, and Workforce Administration and Global Essential Compliance and Security Policies (GECSP). Digitization and Automation Compliance and Standards We are a pioneer in offering technology tools, digital • Information Security Management System solutions, and business intelligence products for various ISO27001 certified operations industries, delivering transformational benefits. Our • Supplemented by Contractual compliances digital solutions include RPA, AI, Machine Learning, like PCI-DSS, HIPAA/HITRUST, SSAE16/18 Business Intelligence, and Data Transformation products. • Adherence to Local Regulations Digital Solutions • RPA • Data Protection Regulation – GDPR • Machine Learning, AI • NIST based Cyber Security framework • Business Intelligence • OWASP Standards for Application Security • Data Management, Transformation and Integration • ISO22301 compliant Business Continuity Practices • Desktop Automation and Mobility Solutions • ISO20000 IT Service management certified Enabling Technology Policies and Procedures • CRM, Workflow, Scanning Solutions Global Essential Compliance and Security Policies (GECSP) • Reporting and Compliance Tools • Adherence to these 14 policies by all staff and third party service providers • Data Management and Visualization • Mandates requirements for paperless operations, frisking staff, hardened workstations, awareness trainings • GECSP audits undertaken for site certification • Vulnerability Management Program • Centralized Security Operations Center for Incident Management reporting and tracking 2018 HIGHLIGHTS TRANSFORMING AND EVOLVING PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT 22 We Emphasize Human Interactions Teleperformance has spent the past 40 years learning from each interaction. That’s why we leverage automated solutions, while relying on human interactions to deliver the best possible experiences. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS TRANSFORMING AND EVOLVING PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT 23 Global Best Practices, Local Knowledge Our global best practices provide a consistent level of management across all of our programs. These ensure that our operations worldwide are uniform. However, Teleperformance uses its unparalleled knowledge of local markets to provide an outstanding level of service to each customer. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS TRANSFORMING AND EVOLVING PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT 24 Our flexible operational tools provide strategic advantages and consistency to businesses across geographies and a range of sectors. Teleperformance Operational Baseline Enterprise Standards Top Contact Driver Processes & Standards for Teleperformance TOPS is a world-class BEST is a group of standards and TCD ascertains the main motives coaching, problem-solving best practices, which are based that cause customers to get in approach, and representative on our worldwide experience, touch with Teleperformance. development methodology and provide consistently The TCD program is crucial for guiding that ensures uniformity and high performance in our performance, so that employees are able quality management in all our operations all over the world. to work on the most important issues. programs around the world. These standards provide global best It also provides the latest subjects that TOPS helps frontline management practices in operations, human resources, interest customers. Having advance develop high-performance agents sales, payroll, technical support, among knowledge, teams can prepare and, thus, through the management of other things, for all sites. They ensure have assertive responses in dealing with performance metrics. TOPS allows high quality services, outstanding those interactions. TCD helps processes leaders to spend 80 percent of their performance, and active management of improve, supports time declines, and time focused on feedback and coaching. all programs. BEST archives deliverables increases operational quality and agility. Structured processes provide managers by internal departments, adding value and leaders with a clear, consistent and uniformity to all processes, no picture of how agents perform. Using matter where. TOPS, leadership can help their team achieve more efficiency. Frontline Process Benefits to our clients: Every day, we collect data. Frontline Support Areas Operations Sales Team allows us to use this data to build a Improve clientBetter understand Opportunity to present set of usable information that helps centric approach, our clients’ Teleperformance’s as well as challenges high-intel services, our clients focus on their business knowledge of our increase loyaty, crossstrategies and objectives. clients’ business sell upsell 2018 HIGHLIGHTS TRANSFORMING AND EVOLVING PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT 25 Knowledge Base can be addressed more robustly in Provides data in an organized fashion, training. supporting procedures services, and The Teleperformance Contact Center other important information that can help The coaching lab records supervisor Management System (CCMS) is an awardrepresentatives provide consistent service coaching sessions with agents so they winning Enterprise Resource Planning across channels. can be reviewed again later. Call center solution for managing employee managers can then provide coaching Multi-routing Capabilities (Inbound) information, time and attendance, feedback to supervisors. Allows routing to properly-skilled agents to talent acquisition, quality assurance, and meet customer needs. Customized maps allow end users to workforce planning. The system provides see the layout of call floor workspaces. specialized products and modules to help Contact Management (Outbound) Observer users can interact with each users perform better. Contact scheduler tool can be organized by workspace icon to see details about customer segmentation, behavior, location, CCMS is the cornerstone of the agent, call, computer workstation, and preferred contact channel in order to Teleperformance’s success, providing security alerts, voice alerts, and realgather the perfect moment to contact the information and resources needed time feeds of voice, desktop view, and customer. to manage employees, from agents an overhead camera view of the agent to executive managers. It also allows and workspace. The solution provides a employees the flexibility to complete single interface for floor management, as their daily tasks and provides information well as historical trend and point-in-time that can help increase operational quality analysis and reporting. and consistency in our operations around TP Observer is a call floor management Main Features: the globe. tool that empowers floor and call center Enhanced Privacy and Security of managers with real-time information Customer Data about the agent workspace. This information includes telephony state, Improved Capacity Planning desktop state, call emotion, workspace Virtual Raised Hand video, and workspace security data. TP Client is our omnichannel CRM tool, Managers use this feedback to increase Coaching Lab which automates workflow processing performance and enhance the quality of and assimilates internal and external Customizable Maps customer care. systems, helping optimize performance. Workspace status, which includes Call The platform can handle any kind of Observer creates a real-time view of call State, Desktop Activity, and Security contact flow and customer segmentation center activity using data from ACDs Status (Inbound). It can also help figure out the (Automatic Call Distribution), desktop right channel and time to contact the Real-time Desktop, Interaction, and Floor event monitors, and layered voice analysis customers (Outbound). Feeds to monitor the emotional status of a call. Supports all channels and devices Observer also evaluates desktop events Channel: Voice, Digital (Social Media, and call emotions, and initiates recordings Chat, E-mail, Mobile Apps, Bots/AI, Video automatically if activity does not align with Chat, IM/SMS) defined thresholds. The data is stored for Device: smartphones, tablets, computers reporting with any sensitive information fully hidden. Observer enhances floor CRM Solution Integrated with all efficiency using a virtual raised hand and Channels coaching lab system. Virtual raised hands The platform organizes and uses client help prioritize and categorize requests data to provide real-time updates, no for supervisor intervention. Requests that matter the channel, consistently, and involve a customer on hold are handled in without redundancies. It can be easily a FIFO queue. Common request categories integrated with ERP and billing solutions. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS TRANSFORMING AND EVOLVING INFORMATION SECURITY 26 Industry-leading Security Experts For over four decades, our clients have trusted us as experts in security. So, in order to consistently deliver a safe and seamless omnichannel customer experience, it is imperative that security remains one of our top priorities. Our solid security strategies include constantly adapting to technology and trends, monitoring risks and threats, complying with international regulations on data privacy, and seeking new ways to guarantee our clients’ and their customers’ security. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS TRANSFORMING AND EVOLVING INFORMATION SECURITY 27 Early Fraud Detection and Prevention The economical and reputational Cutting-edge Technology TECHNOLOGY AND SECURITY repercussions of fraud are staggering, Our security programs are developed that’s why we are committed to developing using proprietary tools that fuse As experts in security, we continuously new methodologies and security technology and sensibility. These tools develop tools, complemented by strong programs that address the complexities ensure that our teams are well-equipped in security controls that enable our security inherent in today’s diverse business monitoring fraud attempts and in tracking teams to enforce a secure workplace. and threat landscape. Besides taking security breaches. We continuously enhance our real-time smarter steps to manage and mitigate alert tool that monitors agent activities in security risks, our deeply knowledgeable Stringent Global Policies order for it to adapt to the latest security security leaders have created a Our policies aim to enhance our clients’ trends and updates. sophisticated compliance, privacy, and data security. security framework that enables an all– SECURITY PROCESSES encompassing security perimeter: Privacy and Security Management Methodologies In order for our security teams to conduct Highly Trained Professionals All of our programs that are developed and their assessments that determine Our team members are trained to implemented are always aligned with our fraudulent activity or potential data continuously establish more ways to best-in-class security practices. breach, internal and external security protect data at rest, in use, and in transit. audits are performed throughout the year. Our security methodology maps Well-defined Privacy and out data, processes, and operations—if Security Processes properly working together, all of these Our carefully designed and consistent reduce operational risks throughout the security processes allow our security team organization. to anticipate, identify, and prevent security risks. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS TRANSFORMING AND EVOLVING INFORMATION SECURITY 28 Reaching a Teleperformance Receives Higher Level BCRs Approval of Compliance We received our BCRs approval, making us the first company in the industry to achieve this critical data Maturity protection compliance status from the EU. Starting May 25, 2018, processing of BCRs allow Teleperformance to offer clients total global operational flexibility to personal data by organizations should deliver safer and better customer experiences for their EU consumers anywhere and already be in accordance with the at every interaction. This lets clients choose service locations anywhere in the world, General Data Protection Regulation depending on their operational needs, without worrying about additional EU data (GDPR). The GDPR is a regulation that protection formalities. Additionally, BCRs: significantly increases the obligations • Enable Teleperformance and clients that partner with us to demonstrate and responsibilities for organizations and compliance with the EU GDPR and other global regulations businesses in how they collect, use, and protect personal data. • Provide assurance that personal data of customers are adequately protected across all subsidiaries when transferred internationally We have been consistent in ensuring our compliance, taking the necessary steps • Ensure alignment with European and international data protection in making sure that the new security requirements regulation has been met even before • Reduce risks of reputational and financial harm from data misuse and privacy its full implementation. In preparation law breaches for the regulation, we rolled out our own GDPR Program to establish a new global minimum baseline for privacy and As a global leader in data protection. This incorporated an application for Binding Corporate Rules omnichannel customer (BCRs), both as a data controller and as a data processor, to give our subsidiaries experience management, enough flexibility and protection to conduct operations and to transfer we always value the personal data worldwide within the Teleperformance Group. security of our clients. Attaining BCRs-approved status is a long and rigorous process that ensures a company has a comprehensive and effective framework to safely and legally transfer private EU data out of Europe for services such as customer sales and service, technical support, and backoffice processing. BCRs are regulatorapproved, requiring among other items, meeting high privacy standards for data transfers. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS TRANSFORMING AND EVOLVING TELEPERFORMANCE CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE LAB (CX LAB) 29 Teleperformance The presence of disruptive companies, emerging technologies, the advent “The CX Lab demonstrates Teleperformance’s investment Customer Experience of new communication channels, in an integrated omnichannel Lab (CX Lab) and the rise of digital generations are challenging the way business is done. strategy, one that is about bringing insights and thought In order to differentiate and succeed leadership to clients directly We learn about your customers so we in this competitive environment, from the end consumer in a very can better interact with them. businesses must be able to implement thoughtful and analytical way. the right omnichannel customer The feel of the commitment to experience strategy that is fueled by research and thought leadership in-depth customer insights. at the CX Lab is what resonates The Teleperformance Customer most from my visit to the Experience Lab (CX Lab) is our one-stop center. The kind of collaborative shop for intelligent data from endapproach Teleperformance is customers that help clients understand taking with clients is what is their changing behaviors across needed to move this industry countries, generations, channels forward in the face of disruption.” and sectors. Melissa O’Brien, Research Director at HfS Research 2018 HIGHLIGHTS TRANSFORMING AND EVOLVING TELEPERFORMANCE CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE LAB (CX LAB) 30 200,000 14 countries online responses in 2018 in various continents 18 key sectors Holistic Customer Experience 12,400 Overview Channel Trends Reveal which channels are the most used and desired by customers Consumer Insights Shed light on the perception of experiences throughout the customer journey 2018 HIGHLIGHTS TRANSFORMING AND EVOLVING TELEPERFORMANCE CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE LAB (CX LAB) 31 Insights from the CX Lab Each interaction between a company and a customer is an opportunity to strengthen that relationship. Having empathy for those you serve is important, but understanding customer preferences is essential to create the right omnichannel strategy. The right strategy provides opportunities for customers to interact through the channels they prefer, no matter the time or the place. Teleperformance’s CX Lab continues to provide insights into customers’ behaviors and preferences to help businesses understand different customers around the world. What remains clear, given the years of data the CX Lab has collected, is that the right channel mix is essential to creating loyal brand advocates. In fact, the more channels a customer uses, the more likely they are to recommend a brand. 79% of customers who used eight or more channels were willing to recommend a brand 59% of customers who used four channels were willing to recommend a brand 49% of customers who used one channel were willing to recommend a brand 2018 HIGHLIGHTS TRANSFORMING AND EVOLVING TELEPERFORMANCE CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE LAB (CX LAB) 32 CX Lab provided insights that We are always grateful to our improved outcomes for more partners who have entrusted us to than 150 clients this year. work with them. Here are a few of their stories: Games Financial Services Apparel Companies Once again, the CX Lab was an integral A major financial conglomerate annually Clothing and footwear companies around part of an annual games sector event. reaches out to see a detailed customized the world have become repeat CX Lab Participants saw an exclusive customized study of their results compared to customers, eagerly awaiting to see presentation from the CX Lab that the market and pinpoint areas for our new annual edition to understand analyzed insights and key trends. Various improvement across various metrics. customers’ expectations and channel participants requested follow-up sessions preferences. to better understand the insights and incorporate them into their operations. Automotive Energy New Economy A major automotive company has relied The CX Lab has worked with various Various new economy companies on CX Lab findings to incorporate into global energy companies based out leveraged CX Lab studies to better the turnaround strategy of a specific of Europe to provide unique insights understand current trends in customer geography. Client dived into the cultural regarding operations in specific behavior and how incumbents scored. habits of the market and customers’ locations and the effect of growing We interacted with startups, seeking preferences in order to analyze channel competition on customer behavior. benchmarks regarding customer mix and key loyalty drivers. service. At the same time, we worked with numerous incumbents in sectors such as Financial Services, Communications, and Consumer Electronics to analyze the impact of disruptive companies in their core markets across various geographies. Consumer Electronics Travel One of the major consumer electronics A major online travel agency had and media conglomerates had a a workshop to understand our workshop to understand recent loyalty methodology and global results. insights across various countries. Insights were utilized to analyze the Customized analysis regarding different company’s positioning and weakness breakdowns, such as geography and of competitors in specific geographic generations, were created to explain workshops. results. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS TRANSFORMING AND EVOLVING SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 33 Everyone at Teleperformance Works Hard to Make the World a Better Place We work in our communities to aid those in need. At Teleperformance, we take responsibility for the social and environmental impacts of our business operations. Hence, we are fully committed to reducing our carbon footprint, donating to social causes, attending volunteer events, and carrying out ethical labor practices. We do our best to be part of the change we wish to see in the world through our Corporate Social Responsibility programs Citizen of the World and Citizen of the Planet, and by adhering to international voluntary initiatives such as the UN Global Compact. We consider them opportunities for maximizing positivity and making a real difference. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS TRANSFORMING AND EVOLVING CITIZEN OF THE WORLD 34 We Give Where We Live Established in 2006, Citizen of the World (COTW) is our charitable initiative to help the world’s most vulnerable infants and children meet basic survival needs and ultimately reach their individual potential. All of us at Teleperformance are extremely proud of our efforts as our teams around the world have remained united under a common humanitarian commitment that, more often than not, goes beyond improving the lives of children. USD 40,101,087 in total donations* to help underprivileged 413,128 infants and children were fed through people or victims of natural disasters several monthly feeding programs 478,673 underprivileged infants 19,986 computers were donated 517,331 volunteer hours and children received toys to impoverished schools during the holiday season * Total donations include cash, in-kind, and service hours, since the program’s inception. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS TRANSFORMING AND EVOLVING CITIZEN OF THE WORLD 35 Our Global COTW Highlights PARTIAL LIST TP IN BRAZIL TP IN CANADA TP IN USA During the Christmas Solidarity Teleperformance in Canada’s Action As part of the Panama City hurricane Campaign, Teleperformance in Against Poverty food drive was a total efforts, Teleperformance in the USA, Brazil employees were able to collect success, with employees coming specifically our Panama Beach site, 36,069 toys, 30,606 kilograms of together to donate nonperishable food worked with Feed the Children to food, and helped get 824 letters items to a local Food Bank. distribute food, hygiene items, and to Santa Claus, written by children cleaning products to over 800 affected and seniors associated with various families that include our own employees. institutions. These collections helped Even when faced with difficulties, our 21 institutions, with an impact on over people were still eager to help and 26,000 people. provide support to each other and to the community they live in. TP IN FRANCE TP IN UK TP IN ROMANIA With the World Cup fever raging in Teleperformance in the UK’s Manchester At Teleperformance in Romania, the background, Teleperformance in team donated 29 shoeboxes filled with education definitely matters, that’s why France didn’t fail to observe World Blood essential items, such as toiletries, gloves, our colleagues generously donated Donation Day on June 14, encouraging and scarves, to Help the Homeless. school supplies to Ana si Copiii to help and mobilizing everyone to donate blood. Eight bags were also packed with coats, more than 30 children go to school. Because even though giving blood may jackets, and blankets, all for the benefit of be a simple thing to do, it can certainly Lifeshare. make a huge difference in the lives of others. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS TRANSFORMING AND EVOLVING CITIZEN OF THE PLANET 36 Building a Better World Citizen of the Planet (COTP) is our global environmental initiative dedicated to minimizing negative environmental impacts. Established in 2008, the key focus of Our COTP programs all over the world COTP is to track and reduce our overall consistently receive tremendous support carbon footprint per employee on a from our people. Their participation is worldwide basis by cutting down energy definitely a reflection of our commitment consumption, paper use and solid waste to making the world a better place. generation, air travel, and water use. Through awareness programs, practices, and collaborative campaigns, we are able to encourage our people to do their share in protecting the planet. In 2018, our total measured carbon emissions were 160,319 tons, with a carbon footprint per employee (CFE) of 0.712 tons. * *This average does not include Intelenet employees. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS TRANSFORMING AND EVOLVING CITIZEN OF THE PLANET 37 Our Global COTP Highlights PARTIAL LIST TP IN ALBANIA TP IN RUSSIA TP IN ROMANIA We only have one Earth. So, Small actions lead to big change, and Our colleagues from Teleperformance to commemorate Earth Day, Teleperformace in Russia is all about that. in Romania participated in the World Teleperformance in Albania, together On July 28, our Vladimir Teleperformers, Cleanup Day activity organized by Let’s with Ecovolis, planted pine trees and also together with the townspeople, cleaned Do It, Romania!, which aimed to clean up joined the local community in cleaning up up one of their favorite summer spots. the green areas around the city. the beach of Kepi Rodonit. It was a productive and well-supported initiative. TP IN COLOMBIA TP IN EL SALVADOR TP IN INDIA Our volunteers from Teleperformance Teleperformance in El Salvador World Environment Day was definitely in Colombia planted trees at the turned over donations to Fundación filled with activities for Teleperformance mountainous area of Serranía del Coatepeque, an organization that helps in India. Together, they planted Majuy. Teleperformance cares for the preserve the Coatepeque basin and trees, made use of their creativity to environment, and together, we can do so protect the environment in the area. reduce waste from plastic, and held much more. environmental quizzes, all in the spirit of fun and care for the world we live in. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS TRANSFORMING AND EVOLVING THE GLOBAL COMPACT 38 We Support the UN Global Compact The United Nations (UN) Global Compact is the world’s largest voluntary corporate sustainability initiative—and we’re proud to be a signatory. As a socially responsible organization, we see to it that our business practices are aligned with the UN Global Compact’s 10 principles that safeguard human rights, support fair labor, reduce environmental impact, and defend against corruption. We embrace the following principles: Human Rights Principle 4: the elimination of all forms Principle 8: undertake initiatives of forced and compulsory labor; to promote greater environmental Principle 1: businesses should responsibility; and support and respect the protection Principle 5: the effective of internationally proclaimed human abolition of child labor; and Principle 9: encourage the development rights; and and diffusion of environmentally friendly Principle 6: the elimination of technologies. Principle 2: make sure that they are not discrimination in respect of complicit in human rights abuses. employment and occupation. Labor Environment Anti-Corruption Principle 3: businesses should Principle 7: businesses should Principle 10: businesses should work uphold the freedom of association support a precautionary approach to against corruption in all its forms, and the effective recognition of the environmental challenges; including extortion and bribery. right to collective bargaining; 2018 HIGHLIGHTS TRANSFORMING AND EVOLVING THE GLOBAL COMPACT 39 Teleperformance supports and abides by the universal principles of the UN Global Compact. rru rte Rig ent pti d hts on Sup Env po Hu iron Ant ma or i-C People Care n Lab m o SDG Teleperformance respects and supports human rights throughout its operations and business activities and is committed to avoiding complicity in human rights abuse. To reinforce its commitment, in June 2015 the Group launched a Human Rights Statement addressing Principles 1 and 2 of the UN Global Compact. The Human Rights Statement . . Teleperformance Human Rights Statement is publicly available on our corporate website; it has been translated into nine languages and distributed to all local companies. The policy is also publicly available to all stakeholders on our corporate website. In 2018, 81% of our employees were trained on the Group Human Rights Statement as part of their CSR New Hire Training, and 73% acknowledged the policy. Since 2015, Teleperformance has been working to continuously improve its Group Complaints mechanism. Initially put in place as an email address made available to all stakeholders on the corporate website, the system was upgraded in 2016 and integrated into our internal Omnichannel Management tool to optimize complaints resolution, track customer experience, and draw statistics. In 2018, regular trainings for local HR teams were organized (one-to-one trainings, tutorials, videos and webinars), focusing on how to handle requests and Group Grievance Mechanism . . . . complaints according to the Group’s standards (workflow, SLA, etc.). Our Group Grievance mechanism is assessed by an external party (CSR Europe) against the effectiveness criteria set by the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (Legitimate, Accessible, Predictable, Equitable, Transparent, Rights-compatible, a source of continuous learning, and based on engagement and dialogue). Established in 2006, “Citizen of the World” (COTW) is our charitable initiative to help the world’s most vulnerable children meet basic survival needs and providing disaster relief aid around the world in times of emergency. COTW is part of Teleperformance’s Corporate Social Responsibility efforts, which reinforce our commitment to take care of the community and aid those in need. In the framework of COTW initiatives, Teleperformance celebrates international days such as Zero Discrimination Day, International Women’s Day, Earth Hour, International Peace Day, World Habitat Day and Human Rights Day. Furthermore, four main campaigns or “drives” are organized globally every year: clothing/food drive; health drive; school drive; holiday drive. In 2018, Teleperformance employees donated more than $5,478,014 in cash and in-kind donations to Community Involvement: Citizen of the World . underprivileged children and families as well as natural disaster victims. 85,374 volunteer hours were provided by Teleperformance employees for charitable and environmental causes. Teams around the world contributed to Teleperformance’s COTW programs by donating clothing, hygiene items, school supplies and food to local communities, as well as giving money, providing disaster relief efforts, and participating in health campaigns and drives by donating blood. Since Citizen of the World’s foundation in 2006, and after over a decade of giving, millions of children and families have benefited from Teleperformance volunteers’ actions worldwide. In total (YTD), our COTW Ambassadors have raised more than $40 million in cash and in-kind donations, 517,331 volunteer hours have been donated in which countless lives have benefited from the service of Teleperformance employees.” Teleperformance’s New Hire Orientation is designed to raise awareness around Corporate Social Responsibility throughout the Group and to involve all employees in CSR-related initiatives right from the outset of their CSR New Hire Training . . employee experience. This training is mandatory for all new hires and is delivered face-to-face during the Onboarding phase. It explains what CSR is and introduces the Sustainable Development Goals, focusing on the Groups' main CSR programs and policies and describing how to get involved in Teleperformance's social responsibility actions. To date, 90% of all Teleperformance companies have already implemented this training. Teleperformance’s Code of Ethics reflects the Group’s core values and respect for diversity. All companies in the Group must apply the CSR principles in the way we operate to ensure honesty, fairness, equality, Code of Ethics . . . sustainability, transparency, and basic human decency. The policy is publicly available to all stakeholders on the Teleperformance corporate website. In 2018, 92% of our employees were trained on the Code of Ethics as part of their CSR New Hire Training, and 83% acknowledged the policy. In its 11th Global Edition, the 2018 E.Sat involved 47 countries and more than 115,000 respondents. Each year, all employees are invited to participate in this global initiative. The survey covers 12 topics, from employees’ training Employee Satisfaction Survey . . and work environment, to leadership and work-life balance. After the survey, each company develops targeted action plans based on the results obtained. Actions are put in place the following year. Compared to 2017, the overall satisfaction in 2018 increased by 4 percentage points, following a continuous improvement approach. Launched in June 2015, the Teleperformance Supplier Policy aims to set out a range of rules we expect our Supply Chain . . . . suppliers and business partners to abide by in terms of ethics, anti-corruption, and other social responsibility principles. Teleperformance Supplier Policy is available to all stakeholders on our corporate website. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS TRANSFORMING AND EVOLVING THE GLOBAL COMPACT 40 rru rte Rig ent pti d hts on Sup Env po Hu iron Ant ma or i-C People Care n Lab m o SDG Teleperformance launched operational security and privacy initiatives through its Global Essential Security Policies in February 2015. Those policies express Teleperformance’s strong commitment to respecting and protecting the privacy of every individual, its employees, and clients. In 2016, Teleperformance revised those policies and Data Privacy Policy . . renamed them the Global Essential Compliance and Security Policies in order to adapt to global privacy changes. Teleperformance’s privacy policy is available on our corporate website. In 2018 Teleperformance became the first global BPO company to receive Binding Corporate Rules (BCRs) as both a data controller and data processor further enhancing its commitment to data privacy. All operating companies of the group have signed an intercompany agreement, part of the BCRs, which allows international data transfers across the Teleperformance Group. In 2018, Teleperformance reinforced its engagement against corruption by issuing a comprehensive corruption risk mapping and renewing its policies on the matter. Replacing the former Anti-Corruption policy, the Code of Conduct . Teleperformance Code of Conduct focuses on corruption, bribery, fair business practices, and defines the rules and behaviors employees need to follow. Available in multiple languages, the Teleperformance Code of Conduct is published on our corporate website. Transitioning from the Anti-Corruption policy, 65% of the employees were trained in the policy, with 56% acknowledgment. Teleperformance has a strong security program that is a balance of both physical and digital security measures for employees and customers alike. Our security program consists of integrated solutions leveraged using indepth industry knowledge tailored to suit our clients’ businesses. Teleperformance security program includes security risk assessments—developed in partnership with our clients—and a response process to address potential Anti-Fraud Program . concerns globally. This strategy helps to protect our clients’ data and maintain our customers’ confidentiality, while providing a safe and secure workplace for our employees. We have also developed an in-house technology that allows Teleperformance to act in a proactive manner to reduce potential fraud. Also, we have implemented a global incident response process that allows Teleperformance to react in near real time to potential fraud incidents. upt ted Rig ent ion hts por Env Ant Sup Hu iron i-C Diversity & Career ma n or Lab m orr SDG Management Teleperformance complies with all national and international laws in terms of labor. To reinforce our commitment, the Group issued a Human Rights Statement in 2015 stating that “Social dialog takes place at different levels within the organization, and may exist in different forms depending on culture, practices, Labor Framework & Social Dialogue . . and applicable regulations in the various countries. All our employees throughout our operations and where applicable have the right to collective bargaining. All employees may freely join or associate with organizations without interference, retaliation or discrimination. Where employees are represented by a legally recognized union, we are committed to establishing a constructive dialogue with their freely chosen representatives.” For more information, please refer to Teleperformance 2018 Registration Document. In January 2015, Teleperformance launched its Group Equal Opportunity Policy, setting out concrete guidelines to promote equal employment opportunities, non-discrimination, diversity, inclusion, and equality in the career Equal Opportunity Policy . . path. It covers workplace discrimination in terms of gaining access to employment and in treatment of employees once they are at work. The policy is based on Principle 6 of the UN Global Compact and is publicly available on our corporate website. In 2018, 88% of all employees were trained in the policy, with an 81% acknowledgement. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS TRANSFORMING AND EVOLVING THE GLOBAL COMPACT 41 rru rte Rig ent pti d hts on Sup Env po Hu iron An i Diversity & Career ma n or Lab m t-C o SDG Management Launched in 2013, (Baseline Enterprise Standards for Teleperformance) (BEST) Recruitment & Selection is a set of processes and tools in Recruitment designed to ensure that all recruitment applications are reviewed consistently BEST Recruitment & Selection . . across Teleperformance, following clear criteria to avoid biases, that non-discriminatory rules are clearly followed, and candidates are the right fit for the job. The level of implementation is currently at 93% and 78% of our population is certified in BEST R&S. Impact Sourcing (IS) is a service delivery model within the business process outsourcing industry and is defined as employing individuals who would otherwise have limited prospects for employment as workers in BPO centers, to provide high-quality, information-based services to domestic and international clients. IS provides quality and cost at parity with traditional BPO services, but with benefits, such as lower attrition rates, access to untapped talent pool, opportunities to fulfill CSR and diversity goals, and provides a competitive advantage in domestic sourcing. Teleperformance has been recruiting socio-economically disadvantaged individuals for years, providing training to develop the skills necessary to match our clients’ needs and for them to thrive in the company. In 2014, Teleperformance committed to creating 5,000 IS jobs over five years, set as an annual target of 1,000 IS hires worldwide. This goal has been surpassed with over 30,000 IS hires, with the majority of these individuals being employed in developing countries like Egypt, India, Mexico, Morocco, Philippines, and Tunisia. Impact Sourcing . . Highlighting one of the many Teleperformance success stories, this year marked the launch of Teleperformance’s K-12 Impact Sourcing Initiative pilot in the Philippines in partnership with the Information Technology and Business Process Association of the Philippines (IBPAP), Call Center Association of the Philippines (CCAP), and the Technical Education and Skills Development Authority (TESDA) and their joint initiative with the Commission on Higher Education (CHED) called the Service Management Program (SMP). This program aims to offer relevant training through our global-standard Contact Center Skills Training (CCST) module and college course, in addition to the prospect of productive employment. Nearly 1,600 students graduated from this program in 2018 and another 1,400 are anticipated to graduate in 2019. Teleperformance has been a champion of Impact Sourcing and an early adopter for many years, and has openly shared hiring commitments while encouraging competitors to adopt similar strategies. The objectives of the Onboarding process for new employees are: know and understand the organization and the business; become operational and feel confident; give the employee visibility to a potential career path. The benefits of the Onboarding process for new employees are: build confidence and sense of belonging; improve performance and pride; create a feeling of security for his/her future at Teleperformance. The first onboarding Onboarding . . package was created for our advisors, representing 90% of our workforce. The package, covering the first 90 days of an advisor’s employment, was launched in December 2013. Onboarding effectiveness is measured via 90-day surveys that provide new starters with the opportunity to provide feedback on: Before Arrival, Upon Arrival, Training, Nesting, Graduation, and Operations. A report is provided to each subsidiary to create action plans should their scores be below 85% and a global quarterly call takes place to discuss best practices. Teleperformance focuses on ensuring consistency in the way we recruit and train people during their first six months in the role. In 2014, we launched Supervisor Foundations and now have Trainer Foundations and Recruitment Foundations live across the group. In 2018, we have also launched Foundations for QA, ACM, Support, and Training Managers. These programs all have the following areas: 1. Job Descriptions – The Job Description is now consistent globally Foundations Program . ensuring all these roles are recruited to the same specification (local requirements can be added); 2. Assessment Center – A new assessment center has been designed for each role which applicants must pass in order to start in their role; 3. Training A structured training curriculum has been developed and will be consistent for each of these roles. The training curriculum covers the first six months of their tenure and is split into “Basics” (Week one), “Essentials” (Months One to Three) and “Development” (Months Three to Six). Training has been carefully selected for each section, starting initially with some of the core knowledge required for the role, while ending in the “development” phase with skills based workshops that allow them to take into the workshop real examples to discuss and practice. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS TRANSFORMING AND EVOLVING THE GLOBAL COMPACT 42 rru rte Rig ent pti d hts on Sup Env po Hu iron Ant Diversity & Career ma n or Lab m i-C o SDG Management JUMP! is a development program created to identify and prepare high-potential employees to take on leadership positions in the company. The aim is to help employees become leaders, by progressing from contact center advisor, through supervisor, and coordinator to manager. JUMP! is managed locally and is based on a program JUMP! . that offers technical and behavior training, as well as personal development plans. In 2018, 61% of our nonagent vacancies were filled through internal promotion. We are aware of 2,653 people across the group who were promoted in 2018 after completing the JUMP! program. We expect these numbers to increase year on year as further emphasis is placed on developing our internal career programs at Teleperformance. At the central level, the Teleperformance Institute provides all Group management staff (supervisors, platform managers, operational directors, etc.) with e-learning and face-to-face training. In view of its global presence and desire to involve a maximum number of employees, the Group has focused particularly on developing eInstitute . e-learning. For the sake of greater independence, the e-learning platform has been developed in-house since late 2011, and is available in the main Group languages. Teleperformance employees are able to develop their leadership, communication, time management and project management skills thanks to the e-learning process. 750,725 e-learning training hours were provided in 2018 (compared to 406,639 in 2017), accounting for 1.8% of the total 2018 training hours (an increase in 0.6% from previous years). Teleperformance University was created to nurture, develop, empower, and spread globally the unique corporate culture of Teleperformance. The program prepares the next generation of leaders to sustain Teleperformance’s leadership in the industry for years to come. Teleperformance University is an Executive program divided into six modules across six centers of excellence in the world: Innovation, CX Lab & Atlantic Experience (Lisbon, Portugal); TP University . Marketing, Solutions & Strategy (São Paulo, Brazil); Operations, IT & Security (Salt Lake City, USA); CSR, NPS & Six Sigma (Manila, Philippines); Finance (Athens, Greece); Business Development & Client Relationships with Final Project (Guadalajara, Mexico). Lasting 10 months, 80% of the curriculum is delivered by Teleperformance leaders. Additionally, we partner with renowned universities to bring more value to the project. The 2018 generation of Teleperformance University began classes on September 2017, with 18 participants from 13 different countries. To ensure fair and consistent performance management, Teleperformance Operational Processes & Standards (TOPS) describes the Operation Standards and Procedures that must be followed by all Teleperformance Teleperformance companies. TOPS involves the activities needed to effectively manage operations during the shifts, improving Operational Processes & Standards . . results and increasing employee satisfaction. For each advisor, it ensures consistent support and feedback from first line managers (Supervisors) and it helps to highlight each advisor’s improvement points. Compliance to TOPS is measured regularly at the local level. By the end of 2018, 81% of Teleperformance companies audited had a process score higher than 80%. The Teleperformance Quality Assurance Process (BEST QA) provides a clear, structured approach to implement and BEST Quality Assurance . . manage quality in all our companies, with the objective to improve the satisfaction of our customers and our clients, while at the same time developing our people fairly. Compliance to BEST QA is measured regularly at local level. By the end of 2018, 83% of Teleperformance companies audited had a process score higher than 80%. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS TRANSFORMING AND EVOLVING THE GLOBAL COMPACT 43 rru rte Rig ent pti d hts on Sup Env po Hu iron Ant ma or i-C Health & Safety n Lab m o SDG Teleperformance is committed to providing its employees and contractors with safe conditions of work on a continuous basis by minimizing health and injury risks. We manage Health and Safety with the same degree of expertise and to the same standards as other core business activities. The Group continues its efforts in assessing and analyzing potential risks in the workplace through a continuous improvement of our Safety Management System. In order to ensure compliance with the H&S Policy, the Group has established a system of worldwide remote audits, recently reinforced with the institution of onsite inspection. All Teleperformance companies Health & Safety Policy . . have appointed a local Health & Safety Subject Matter Expert (SME) who is enrolled in a Global Health & Safety learning path with monthly tests and concluding the year with an annual exam. Furthermore, all companies are required to provide clear evidence of the H&S prevention and risk management, from H&S New Hire training to monthly site inspections, accident/incident reporting and evacuation drills, etc. In 2018, 97% of all employees were trained in our Group Health & Safety Policy with a 97% acknowledgement. The policy is publicly available on our corporate website. For further information on our Health & Safety Management System, please refer to the Teleperformance 2018 Registration Document. Our employees spend a significant proportion of their time and energy at work. Therefore, Teleperformance plays a crucial role in improving their health, well-being, and ultimately their quality of life, not only as an employer Passion 4U Program but also as an advocate for health in society. In this context, Teleperformance promotes health literacy as the capacity to make sound health decisions in everyday life—at home, in the community, and in the workplace. . . Passion 4U is our global initiative that promotes well-being and better quality of life at work. By increasing awareness around the benefits of healthy habits and stress reduction, this global program is able to further the sharing of best practices across all Teleperformance companies. All Passion 4U initiatives are rolled out locally, and range from anti-stress initiatives, work-life balance, health and nutrition, ergonomics, fitness, sports, and others. For Fun Festival Teleperformance’s For Fun Festival is a global annual initiative that recognizes the most talented people in our company. The aim of this competition is to create a sense of fun and to entertain via an international art, dance, . music, and photography competition. It also intends to instill pride in belonging to the Group and promote its cultural diversity. In 2018, the 10th Annual For Fun Festival produced 5,848 video submissions. For more information, please see page 12 of this report. Teleperformance Sport Club is a worldwide program promoting sports as a tool for physical well-being and higher quality of life, and motivating our people to play, have fun, and share good moments with their teammates. Sport Club . In 2018, 1,133 sports teams were active across the world, with 453 soccer teams, close to 156 bowling teams, and more than 160 teams in basketball, badminton, baseball, golf, and rugby. For more information, please see page 14 of this report. The work of employed staff is organized in strict compliance with work time legislation, which varies from country to country. The weekly working hours range from 35 to a maximum of 48. Teleperformance has developed BEST Workforce a BEST WFM User Guide describing the general Workforce Management standards and procedures that must be Management . . followed by all countries. Teleperformance BEST WFM involves all the activities needed to respect the labor law requirements, as well as accommodating individual needs for preferred working hours, days, and shifts. BEST WFM has been designed to be aligned with the requirements from the COPC-2000 CSP Standard Release 5.0 & COPC Lean Six Sigma v1.5. Compliance to Best WFM is measured regularly at local level. By the end of 2018, 90% of Teleperformance companies audited had a process score higher than 80%. Teleperformance Premises Standard provides companies with key information to select the best sites when Premises Standard opening a new center, including essential guidelines covering topics such as Lighting, Acoustics, Hands-on. . . Management, Sustainable Development, and Well-being, in all areas of our centers. The Standard presents blueprints and guidelines to be implemented in each new location and to inspire any major refurbishment. The Standard is reviewed by internal and external experts on a yearly basis to ensure that it is in line with market evolutions and business needs. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS TRANSFORMING AND EVOLVING THE GLOBAL COMPACT 44 rru rte Rig ent pti d hts on Sup Env po Caring for the Hu iron Ant ma or i-C n Lab m o SDG Environment In December 2013, Teleperformance released its Environmental Policy, which defines the actions, behaviors, and Environmental Policy . relationships that Teleperformance’s employees shall adopt to act in an environmentally responsible way, inside and outside the workplace. The policy is publicly available to all stakeholders on the Teleperformance corporate website. Since last report, 82% of our employees have been trained, with a 74% acknowledgement. Citizen of the Planet (COTP) is a global Teleperformance corporate initiative launched in 2008, aimed at ensuring Teleperformance operates in an environmentally friendly and responsible manner. Since that time, Citizen of the Planet Teleperformance has acted to improve facilities to create sustainable sites, striven for paperless environments, . improved recycling, and incentivized energy and atmosphere improvements. Teleperformance is aware of its duty to protect nature and lessen its impact on the environment, and does its best in trying to lower its carbon footprint despite the increase in size and number of employees. In 2018, the company’s total measure of CO2 emissions was 160,319 tons, with a carbon footprint per employee (CFE) of 0.712 tons, versus 156,919 tons in 2017 and a CFE of 0.772 tons. Electricity consumption in 2018 amounted to 331,274,449 kWh, versus 316,567,896 kWh in 2017. Electricity consumption per employee decreased by 5.52%, from 1,558 kWh in 2017 to 1,472 kWh in 2018. Water consumption in 2018 was 1,338,931 m³, versus 1 285 691 m³ in 2017. Water consumption per employee lowered by 5.7%, with Sustainable Use of Resources . 5.97 m³ in 2018 versus 6.33 m3 in 2017. Paper consumption in 2018 was 1,339 tons, versus 1,285 tons in 2017; paper consumption per employee decreased by 5.9% (5.95 kg per employee in 2018 versus 6.32 kg in 2017). Air travel in 2018 reached 101,269,765 km versus 79,611,371 km in 2017, 450 km per employee in 2018 versus 392 in 2017 (+14.8 %). Certifications LEED BREEAM Teleperformance in China (Beijing and Foshan sites) Teleperformance HQ, Paris Teleperformance in Colombia (America, Africa and Teleperformance in Poland, Warsaw (Tulipan Europa sites) House, Wołoska 24) and Katowice (GPP Alder Teleperformance Philippines (Cebu IT Park site) Office Building, Rozdzienskiego 1) ISO 14001 Green Building Council of South Africa Teleperformance in Turkey, Istanbul Teleperformance South Africa, 11 Adderley Teleperformance in UK, Ashby-de-la-Zouch Teleperformance in Nordic, HQ services Ecovadis Teleperformance in Nordic HQE Teleperformance in France Teleperformance in France, Asnières Social Responsibility Label OHSAS 18001 Teleperformance in France Teleperformance in Colombia Teleperformance in Tunisia Teleperformance in Italy Teleperformance in Turkey Teleperformance in UK At Teleperformance, We Care about You. At the center of our philosophy is a commitment to people. We believe that we can make the world a better place by building stronger partnerships between our clients and their customers. We do this by valuing each interaction that we undertake. The Teleperformance family accepts the humanity of each person with whom we interact, no matter where in the world. We wish to thank everyone who was part of our success in 2018: our team, clients, and investors. This journey is just getting started. In 2019, we know that we will continue our successful endeavors. USA 2018 HIGHLIGHTS TRANSFORMING AND EVOLVING 46 Teleperformance SE. European Company (Societas Europaea) with a share capital of €144,450,000 RCS number 301 292 702, Paris 21/25 rue Balzac 75008 Paris France Tel.: +33 1 53 83 59 00 For more information: teleperformance.com Follow us: /teleperformanceglobal @teleperformance /teleperformance blog.teleperformance.com /company/teleperformance
