SHOOSMITHS LLP COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT January 2019 03700 86 87 88 |www.shoosmiths.co.uk CONTENTS 1. Introduction to the United Nations Global Compact…………………………………………..…3 2. Chief Executive Officer and Chairman Statement of support………………...……………..….4 3. Introduction to Shoosmiths and our approach to responsible business…………………..…..6 4. Human Rights and Labour Principles…………………………………………………………..…8 4a. Helping our clients…………………………………………………………………………………15 4b. Organisations we have worked with……………………………………………………………..22 4c. Our 2017/2018 human rights and labour targets…………………………………………..…..31 4d. Our 2018/2019 human rights and labour targets…………………………………………..…. 32 5. Environment Principles………………………………………………………………………...….33 5a. Helping our clients……………………………………………………………………………..….38 5b. Organisations we have worked with……………………………………………………….……40 5c. Our 2017/2018 environment targets…………………………………………………………….41 5d. Our 2018/2019 environment targets…………………………………………………………….41 6. Anti-Corruption Principle…………………………………………………………………………..42 6a. Helping our clients………..……………………………………………………….………………43 6b. Our 2017/2018 anti-corruption targets………………………………………………………….44 6c. Our 2018/2019 anti-corruption targets………………………………………………………….44 2 1. Introduction to the United Nations Global Compact The United Nations Global Compact was launched in 2000 and is a call to companies to align strategies and operations with ten universal principles in the areas of and to undertake actions that advance societal goals. The United Nations Global Compact was launched in 2000 and is the world’s largest global corporate citizenship initiative. It aims to mobilise a global movement of sustainable companies and stakeholders to create the world we want. To achieve this it helps companies to:  do business responsibly by aligning their strategies and operations with ten principles on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption, and  take strategic actions to advance broader societal goals, such as the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, with an emphasis on collaboration and innovation. Signatories commit to and provide an annual report on progress, called a Communication on Progress, providing the opportunity for chief executives to re-commit to the ten principles and to report on progress and plans. Shoosmiths is a signatory of the Global Compact; is a member of the UK Network and participates in three of its working groups on Modern Slavery, the 2030 global Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and Diversity and Inclusion. Learning and sharing best practice with other members has enabled us to evaluate and improve our own approaches. Details of our approach to addressing the SDGs have been included in our annual CR Reports from 2015/2016 onwards, setting out our approach and relevant targets related to particular goals. United Nations Global Compact Principles Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and; Principle 2: Make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 3 Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should adopt a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 2. Chief Executive Officer and Chairman Statement of Support Welcome to our third annual Communication on Progress (COP) and re-affirmation that Shoosmiths LLP is a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact and continues to support the 10 principles related to Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Shoosmiths became a signatory 27 January 2016. Our vision is to be the leading national law firm famous for its client experience. This is underpinned by our Corporate Responsibility aspiration to be the leading national law firm famous for its positive contribution to society. Our approach to responsible business has continued to form an integral part of our three year business planning cycle, and as part of a strategic review undertaken during 2018 the partnership has also 4 determined the importance of defining its purpose which in setting out Shoosmiths’ raison d’être is based on enabling our people and clients to flourish. Looking to 2018/2019 we have an ambitious growth strategy to take a larger share of the UK legal market and we have chosen to build our practice organically through carefully planned expansion of our teams and services across locations, in response to client demand. Our approach is one of improving both efficiency and the client experience through innovative solutions. To deliver this we also remain committed to responsible business practices, addressing the global Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), collaborating with others and reporting against our progress and plans. This includes publication of our annual Communication on Progress (COP) as a member of the United Nations Global Compact. The bedrock for Shoosmiths’ success continues to be our people, culture and values which drive a collegiate approach to supporting clients and the delivery of our wider societal aspirations. We encourage everyone to play their collective part in order to deliver our marketplace, workplace, environment and community objectives and targets. During the last reporting period highlights included being awarded Gold status in the Law Society 2017 Diversity Charter Biennial Report, becoming re-accredited to Investors in People Gold status for the third consecutive time, being the first UK law firm to publish its gender pay gap data, becoming a member of the UK Stakeholders for Sustainable Development and enabling 36% of our staff to work in an agile manner. Our division and directorate heads recognise the leadership role they play in ensuring the Global Compact and its principles are considered across the firm as part of our strategy and that they are sufficiently embedded in our culture and our operational planning, controls and procedures such that we can demonstrate and report on progress. This statement is accessible through the United Nations Global Compact website, the Shoosmiths website and is communicated to our key stakeholders including partners and staff, clients and our local communities. Simon Boss Peter Duff Chief Executive Officer Chairman 5 3. Introduction to Shoosmiths and our approach to responsible business Shoosmiths LLP is a leading UK law firm. As at 2 January 2019 we had 185 partners and partner equivalents and 1,669 personnel working together as one team at 11 locations in England, Scotland and Northern Ireland namely Belfast, Birmingham, Edinburgh, Leeds, London, Manchester, Milton Keynes, Northampton, Nottingham, Solent and Thames Valley. We operate four business units known as divisions:  Business advisory which provides commercial, employment, pensions and risk and litigation services;  Corporate which provides banking, company secretarial, core corporate, restructuring and insolvency and tax advice;  Private client which provides wealth protection, court of protection, family and conveyancing, and specialist litigation teams advising on clinical negligence, personal injury, special education needs, residential landlord and tenant issues, contentious probate and other professional negligence; and  Real estate which provides construction, planning, property litigation, and core real estate advice. Directorates providing business support are business development and marketing, finance, HR and estates management, information support, quality and risk and strategic change. We have been delivering legal services to businesses and individuals since 1845. Clients include household name blue chip companies, leading financial institutions, public and private sector organisations and foreign owned corporates. The Private Client Division, which includes Access Legal Solicitors, is dedicated to helping individuals with their personal legal needs. We are accredited to the ISO 9001:2015 quality standard and ISO 27001:2013 information security system standard, are an Equal Opportunities Employer and were the first top 100 law firm to achieve Gold Standard Investors in People status. We are a member of the World Services Group working with partners to deliver international advice for our clients. Our vision to be the leading national law firm famous for its client experience is underpinned by our Corporate Responsibility aspiration to be the leading national law firm famous for its positive contribution to society. The Shoosmiths approach to corporate responsibility (CR) is based on our desire to Shine: Bright Ideas for Positive Change. Our ability to achieve an overall positive impact on society is determined not just by specific societal aspirations within our business planning cycle but also by our wider goals and the procedures we follow to run our business. We use our annual CR reports to track and report progress against our objectives and targets, to share with our internal and external stakeholders our approach and as a means of informing everyone at Shoosmiths that responsible business behaviours enable us to improve our performance in our marketplace, our workplace, our environment and our community. Our business plan reflects our priorities for the 2016/2019 period building on our existing success – great people, clients and locations to achieve further growth across our business. We will deliver our vision by:  a reputation for quality and a great client experience; 6  staying close to our clients, anticipating their needs and delivering collaborative solutions to their legal requirements;  showing strength in our diversity and being an employer of choice by offering a rewarding and opportunity filled environment for all our people; and  a strong national presence through our network of offices. Operating to the highest standards of business integrity governs our approach. To deliver Shine: Bright Ideas for Positive Change we provide the necessary tools and guidance to enable colleagues to think and say ‘this is how I shine. This is how I made a difference.’ We will achieve our CR strategy by setting and reviewing targets in four work programmes: Our marketplace Our environment Working collaboratively in the marketplace Demonstrating high standards of with our clients and suppliers to evidence environmental responsibility in all our best corporate responsibility practice operations and minimising the aligned with our vision to be the leading environmental impacts associated with our national law firm famous for its client activities, products and services. experience. Our workplace Our communities Attracting, developing and retaining the Building and maintaining sustainable best talent for reinforcing our values and community relationships. providing a stimulating and rewarding work environment. As a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact we have communicated the movement’s principles and work including via our website, twitter, our annual CR Report and our CR blog SHOUTback. This, our third annual Communication on Progress, covers the period January 2018 to January 2019 (although some of our activities and data cited relates to our last financial year 1 May 2017/30 April 2018, coinciding with our latest annual Corporate Responsibility Report). It includes a statement by our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman, a description of actions and relevant policies relating to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Targets with status against these and key performance indicators are provided in more detail in our web published annual corporate responsibility reports as part of our annual corporate responsibility reporting cycle. Much of our client work is confidential but this submission includes a number of examples where we have acted for clients on CR related matters and the clients have consented to the disclosure of their names. Other client resources include training, workshops, how-to guides, e-learning, legal updates and a quarterly legislative tracker entitled ‘Compendium’. This provides an overview of anticipated legal developments, timeframe for implementation and practical suggestions for steps that can be taken. FIND OUT MORE Shoosmiths website www.shoosmiths.co.uk Access Legal Solicitors website 7 https://www.accesslegalsolicitors.co.uk/ You can read our CR policies and annual CR and United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress (COP) reports on the CR section of our website www.shoosmiths.co.uk/about-us/corporate-responsibility-252.aspx Stay in touch with our latest CR news via our blog SHOUTback http://shoutback.shoosmiths.co.uk Follow us on twitter on www.twitter.com/shoosmiths www.twitter.com/access_legal www.twitter.com/shoosmithsgrads You can read our annual slavery and human trafficking statement on the landing page of our Shoosmiths and Access Legal Solicitors websites. http://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/slavery-and-human-trafficking-statement-11579.aspx https://www.accesslegalsolicitors.co.uk/slavery-and-human-trafficking-statement We would love to receive your feedback on our third Communication on Progress. Please send your comments, questions and suggestions to: Corporate.responsibility@shoosmiths.co.uk 4. Human Rights and Labour Principles 1 to 6 Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and; Principle 2: Make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 8 Our policies and commitments We are committed to the highest standards of business integrity and therefore our aspiration to be recognised by our stakeholders as an organisation which is a responsible corporate citizen in all our relationships. Our published responsible business policies include: Community investment policy Corporate responsibility policy Environment policy Health and safety policy Pro bono policy Supplier code of conduct Volunteering policy We are an equal opportunities employer and were the first top 100 law firm to achieve 'Gold Standard Investors in People' status. Our employee policies and procedures set out our requirements on such issues as disciplinary, grievance, equal opportunities, flexible working, harassment and bullying, home and mobile working and recruitment best practice. We expect all employees to conduct business with honesty and integrity and we have a zero tolerance approach to bribery and corruption with policies and regular training undertaken on this and other such issues as anti-money laundering, gifts and hospitality and counter terrorist financing. Our whistleblowing policy sets out the process for reporting any concerns about wrongdoing or breaches of policies including forced or compulsory labour or human trafficking. Modern Slavery Modern slavery is a crime where people are exploited and treated as commodities for commercial gain. It includes slavery, servitude, forced labour and human trafficking. It is a global problem and can exist in any supply chain and industry. The United Nations 2030 Sustainable Development Goals states within Goal 8 Decent Work and Economic Growth a target that includes a focus to ‘take immediate and effective measures to eradicate forced labour, end modern slavery and human trafficking…’ Shoosmiths is committed to playing its part to help effect change through an improved understanding of its operations, by raising stakeholder awareness and by identifying opportunities for collaboration and shared best practice. Our supply chain entails the purchasing of goods and services that support the operations of our offices and services to our clients. These include office supplies, marketing materials, digital agents, ICT hardware and software, estate services such as cleaning, waste management, office design, office fixtures and fittings during fit out, refurbishments and maintenance, uniforms and catering, hospitality services such as hotels for conferences and training events, security and couriers as well as recruitment agents and temporary staff provision. We purchase professional services and work with other law firms and experts including barristers, court services and enforcement, tracing agents, vehicle recovery agents, environmental consultants, 9 surveyors, planning consultants, medical professionals, financial advisors and title indemnity insurance policies from insurance companies and brokers. Our internally managed whistleblowing policy sets out the process for reporting any concerns about wrongdoing or breaches of policies including forced or compulsory labour or human trafficking. During the year no slavery or trafficking concerns were reported by staff. We expect our suppliers to share our commitments and approach and by collaborative working we believe we can jointly have a positive impact on society. Our supplier purchasing policy and guidelines underpins our supplier selection process and details a range of environmental, social and ethical issues including slavery and human trafficking for consideration as part of the supplier selection process. Our priority suppliers are invited to sign up to our Supplier Code of Conduct covering laws and regulations, under age and forced labour, freedom of association, discrimination, wages and benefits, working hours, healthy and safe working conditions, environment, business integrity, discipline and grievances. We updated our procedure on compliance with the Modern Slavery Act Duty to Notify Regulations in April 2018. Shoosmiths is a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact and a member of the UK Network. As a signatory we report annually on our progress against the 10 principles relating to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Since May 2016 we have also been a member of the United Nations Global Compact UK Network Modern Slavery Working Group. Members represent a number of industry sectors and share ideas, information and best practice. In April 2018 we took part for the second consecutive year in the annual peer review of member slavery and human trafficking statements. Shoosmiths is also a partner of the UK Stakeholders for Sustainable Development Network (UKSSD); its vision being that one day, everyone in the UK will have the chance of decent work in a prosperous economy within a fair and just society, living within the Earth’s limits. Our Corporate Responsibility Consultant acts as our lead anti-slavery champion responsible for guiding the business on best practice and raising staff awareness. Due diligence and risk assessment – employees Our employment strategy is based on attracting, developing and retaining the best talent by reinforcing our values and providing a stimulating and rewarding work environment. We recognise everyone is unique and has special contributions to make in delivering the Shoosmiths strategy. Employee engagement is at the heart of our approach and we want to inspire and empower our people to use their talents positively in our communities, whether that be locally, regionally, nationally or ultimately at a global level. Our recruitment and employment procedures include appropriate pre-employment screening of all staff to determine right to work in the UK where all our offices are based. All recruitment suppliers are based in the UK and to the best of our knowledge there are no suppliers using a third party within the process. We deal directly with each supplier who is tasked with delivering the relevant service. 10 Due diligence and risk assessment – suppliers A nominated individual in each division and directorate (10 in total) has been briefed on our updated Modern Slavery Act Duty to Notify procedure and this group of colleagues is responsible for leading on its delivery. The procedure details:  background to the scale of the problem globally, regulations and our legal requirements;  guidance on how to assess level of risk and therefore selection of priority suppliers for engagement on an annual basis or if a risk arises that requires investigation. Priority considerations can include: o sourcing from or operating in countries of high risk; o high risk sectors where cases are frequently reported; o slavery/trafficking issues in the UK; o labour intensive stages of supply chain where the end product is cheap; o sub contracted labour forces; o low skill employment used; o transaction risks; o significant values of spend or significant strategic value; o contracts coming up for renewal; o material change in the supplier’s business e.g. merger, acquisition, significant operational changes; o if an incident has occurred or a potential incident identified; and o previous responses warranting follow up.  invitation for priority suppliers to sign up to the Shoosmiths supplier code of conduct and to provide information on: o countries goods/services sourced from; o review of operations and supply chain during last twelve months; o any instances of slavery/human trafficking identified; o any remediation programme in place if instances found; o any third party accreditations in place to check slavery/human does not exist in supply chain; o details of supplier’s slavery and human trafficking statement if an obligated organisation; and o approaches to other high risk sustainability issues.  employee and employer procedure in the event of an incident of slavery or human trafficking identified and working with supplier to help victims and mitigate risk in the future. Within our estates management function Fisco UK Ltd works with Shoosmiths directly managing and taking ownership of all second tier Facility Management contracts relevant to mechanical and electrical, security, cleaning and vending operations. All new suppliers are vetted and an annual compliance review is undertaken to include pre-employment screening, training, health, safety, environmental and as above modern slavery compliance. Each priority supplier is also sent a slavery and trafficking survey asking it to provide details on:  countries that goods/services are sourced from;  any relevant due diligence standards adhered to;  if its operations/supply chain has been reviewed in the last twelve months for evidence of any instances, forced labour, or human trafficking;  if any affected goods or services have been identified;  remediation approach if any instances were to be found;  any collaborative initiatives or third party accreditations in place; and  annual statements that have been published. As at September 2018 156 suppliers have signed up to our supplier code of conduct and we have received 72 supplier responses to our 2018 slavery and trafficking supplier survey. 11 Goods and services sourced outside the UK include US datasite services; paper bags from Bulgaria; and power banks, USBs, folders, travel adaptors, webcam covers, vacuum bottles and stress balls from China. Divisions and directorates have not identified any internal business procedures that could make demands of suppliers or contractors that might lead them to violate human rights and we will keep this under review. Shoosmiths has not been informed of any incidents of slavery or trafficking during the year but will investigate any allegations should they arise and take appropriate action accordingly. Internal engagement  E learning training is made available to nominated individuals within each division and business directorate overseeing compliance with our slavery and human trafficking requirements. The e learning training covers four modules providing an introduction to modern slavery, what are the signs, action to take and an assessment of understanding. As at August 2018 66 employees (i.e. 87% of nominated staff) have completed the training.  We raise awareness amongst our staff about slavery and human trafficking which this year has included:  Information on our intranet which describes the scale of the problem, what Shoosmiths is doing and ways in which staff can help.  Inclusion in our quarterly induction programme for new joiners.  Following the launch by BT/Unseen of the Unseen App we have added the App to all new company iPhones and iPads ordered from mid-August 2018 onwards. The App helps to make it easier to report concerns to the free confidential helpline 08000 121 700, operated by Unseen 24 hours a day 365 days a year. The helpline can be used by victims, members of the public and businesses to get help, report a suspicion or seek advice. The helpline website also provides resources and directories of services and helpline providers.  An update on progress and plans to our national Employee Forum in September 2018.  In the run up to Anti-Slavery Day 18 October 2018 an intranet feature about the scale and challenges posed by slavery and trafficking included ways colleagues can get involved to raise awareness and support the work of organisations tackling the problem.  Firm wide briefings and articles on our external facing CR blog SHOUTback and inclusion in our annual CR Reports. External engagement In addition to our involvement with the United Nations Global Compact activities during the last twelve months have included:  Modern Slavery Act advice and training provided to clients by our regulatory, employment and commercial teams including board briefings, compliance checklists, amending and drafting contracts to include anti-slavery clauses, assisting with business deals clients are undertaking – considering if other parties involved are affected by the legislation, inserting anti-slavery clauses in agreements and s.54 transparency statements.  Our employment/immigration team also advise on illegal working policies and procedures, carrying out prevention of illegal working audits and provides training for staff undertaking checks on illegal working.  To find out more about the advice we provide click here. To find out more about our e-learning training click here. 12  In June 2018 we organised a workshop with the Law Society and the University of Nottingham. Law firms and the third sector explored challenges that victims and survivors of modern slavery face accessing legal justice and therefore opportunities for possible remedies.  In October 2018 we became a partner of the TISCreport which it describes as the largest Open Data register committed to ending modern slavery and supply chain abuses. The £1,500 subscription is split equally between the TISCreport register and the UK Modern Slavery helpline.  Briefing the pro bono clinics we operate in Reading and Northampton and liaising with LawWorks to find ways of raising awareness including the potential for non-specialist legal advisers to help clients complete applications for Exceptional Case Funding. Priorities for 2018/2019  undertake a third party modern slavery threat assessment to identify opportunities for improvement;  increase understanding of potential risk areas perceived by our priority suppliers within their supply chains;  explore opportunities for collaboration within the business sector and with third sector organisations involved in mitigating and preventing slavery and trafficking within the UK; and  continue to raise awareness amongst stakeholders. In conclusion, Shoosmiths is committed to better understanding its supply chains and collaborating with stakeholders who wish to improve transparency and address incidents of slavery or human trafficking. This applies not just to our own practices but also to the identification of opportunities in wider society where we might be able to make a difference. Our third annual slavery and human trafficking statement (as well as previous statements) is located on our Shoosmiths landing page here and our Access Legal Solicitors landing page here. Diversity and inclusion To thrive as a law firm, we need difference. Difference of thought and perspective, difference in perception and approach to challenges. Our diversity and inclusion mission aims to help attract and nurture a diverse group of staff and to create an environment and culture that is genuinely inclusive, where every member of staff feels valued for their contribution to the firm. In doing this we will ensure we have the best people, that they are happy and confident in developing great relationships and are capable of delivering fantastic results and a unique service to our clients. We have an excellent track record and have achieved significant recognition for encouraging diversity in the legal profession. As founding members of the Law Society Diversity and Inclusion Charter we are pleased to have achieved Gold standard status. We were the first law firm to publish its gender pay gap data in advance of the April 2018 legal deadline and have been working to advance equality both in the firm and the profession. During the year we participated in Law Society roundtable events focusing on women in law, both hosting events and a number of colleagues attending them. We have also used our LeanIn network to run our own roundtables. We have continued to partner and work with organisations such as the Law Society and Aspiring Solicitors and maintain affiliation to Disability Confident and Time to Change to advance work on equality, diversity and inclusion. 13 In October 2017 we published our first gender pay gap report and were the first UK law firm to do so. The report is a requirement of the Equality Act (2010) Gender Pay Gap Information Regulations 2017. Reporting requires six calculations to be carried out that show the difference between the average earnings of men and women in an organisation. Our median pay gap at 12.98% is largely the result of men being employed in more senior positions. Gender diversity is a complex issue with a combination of factors contributing to a lack of gender diversity in senior positions, both in the legal profession and more widely. Multiple contributing factors require multiple solutions. Our 2018/2019 diversity and inclusion priorities include addressing the gender imbalance in senior roles and to expand the data published beyond the legal requirement to include information on partners and ethnicity. We are committed to helping staff to position work in an appropriate place in their lives, enabling them to balance personal commitments and work demands. Our policies include:  agile working;  flexible holidays;  flexible working;  home and mobile working;  parental leave;  volunteering to encourage one day a year helping in the community; and  your time which provides the opportunity to ‘take back’ some time when life outside work has to take priority from time to time, to manage the needs of family and friends. In July 2018 Shoosmiths joined the United Nations Global Compact UK Working Group on Diversity and Inclusion. The purpose of the group is two-fold:  to bring participating members together to discuss with experts and peers the challenges faced in developing and implementing diversity and inclusion strategies; and  to share good practices and identify actions that companies, both individually and as a group, can take to make progress. The group provides access to a ‘safe space’ where participants can engage in frank discussions and share challenges and obstacles they are experiencing in a small, private forum made up of organisations from a wide range of sectors. The group also learns from expert guest speakers and peers from other industry sectors. Wellbeing We recognise the importance of wellbeing at work and the impact it can have on productivity. We also understand that wellbeing is subjective and determined by elements beyond the physical and emotional. Social, material and developmental elements are just as likely to impact on a person’s perception of wellbeing and it is important that we understood the needs of our colleagues if we are to create an inclusive culture that recognises the impact work can have on an individual’s wellbeing. During a series of employee engagement activities in the previous year 2016/2017, our people had told us they would like mental health to form a key part of our inclusion strategy and in January 2017 our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman had signed the Time to Change pledge, a commitment to ending the stigma surrounding mental health. During 2017/2018 wellbeing activities included: 14  a network of mental health champions trialled in three offices with initiatives undertaken in Manchester, Northampton and Nottingham; the network now exists in all offices.  introduction of Mindfulness training programme to all staff;  mental health training delivered to selected managers and staff in support of the Time to Change pledge;  wellbeing area of the intranet developed including links to mental health support;  all staff offered the opportunity to undertake a care and resilience survey which included the creation of a personal profile for those participating and signposting to relevant support. An anonymous cumulative profile for the firm was also created;  support and promotion of the national Work Life Week, an annual campaign to get both employers and employees talking about wellbeing at work and work life fit;  access to financial wellbeing resources to build knowledge and confidence;  the Employee Assistance Programme highlighted in a number of employee briefings; and  resilience sessions piloted in our Birmingham and Northampton offices. Our wellbeing priorities during 2018/2019 are to establish a mental health champion network across all offices (achieved) and to address the issues identified via the care and resilience index. These include resilience training for staff and team coaching as well as support and guidance for line managers. 4a. Helping our clients Shoosmiths is committed to the provision of legal advice on a pro bono basis in all areas of law that are practised across the business. The definition of pro bono used by the Law Society and Bar Council is: Legal advice or representation provided by lawyers in the public interest including to individuals, charities and community groups who cannot afford to pay for that advice or representation, and where public and alternative means of funding are not available. In deciding whether or not to take on pro bono work, the normal procedures apply in relation to due diligence, conflict search checks etc. and if the legal adviser has the capacity and capability to take on. We are a signatory of and abide by the requirements of the Joint Protocol for Pro Bono Legal Work which quality marks legal work by promoting and ensuring consistently high standards of pro bono work. It builds on the professional codes of conduct that set out the standards and requirements that all solicitors must achieve and observe. We are also a founding signatory of the Law Society Pro Bono Charter. Our pro bono policy statement highlights our commitment to support organisations and individuals better understand their rights and gain access to justice. This is underpinned by an internal practice note setting out our requirements for the taking on and reporting of pro bono work. Pro bono advice is undertaken as a consequence of approaches by organisations and individuals, via charity trustee roles, through legal adviser connections, by pre-appointment-based pro bono clinics and via brokered programmes managed by charities. Hours recorded by legal advisers are included with their ‘matter-related’ targets (targets relating to billable hours), meaning pro bono hours count towards achieving these targets. 1,502 pro bono hours were recorded during 2017/2018, representing a 34.2 % increase on the 1,119 hours recorded in 2016/2017. During 2018/2019, we will continue to encourage legal advisers to undertake appropriate work and publicise outcomes of support provided. 15 We work closely with a number of pro bono partners to provide free legal advice to those in need:  Basingstoke Citizens Advice: In 2017/2018, we supported four clinics advising on such issues as county court judgements, family law, property, tenancy and wills.  Business in the Community (BITC) ProHelp: We have supported BITC’s scheme in the West Midlands since 2006. This scheme secures free professional advice from companies for charities and social enterprises unable to afford advice. During 2017/2018 we provided client advice on using a shop unit as a community space, lease advice for a Community Investment Company (CIC), intellectual property advice for another CIC and health and safety advice for a social enterprise.  LawWorks: We support appointment-based pro bono clinics based on the LawWorks model in Thames Valley and Northampton. o CommuniCare Legal Advice Centre: Our Thames Valley office supports the East Reading-based CommuniCare Legal Advice Centre operated in conjunction with students from the University of Reading School of Law. Last year, Shoosmiths advised at 9 clinics supporting 30 clients on issues such as employment, consumer, landlord/tenant, personal injury, contract, claims, will and probate. o Northampton pro bono clinic: Our Northampton office supports the Northampton pro bono clinic operated in conjunction with Citizens Advice Central and East Northamptonshire and students from the University of Northampton School of Law. Last year, Shoosmiths advised 26 clients at 9 monthly advice clinics on matters such as family, probate, employment, landlord and tenant and general civil matters. o LawWorks Not-For-Profit Programme: We support the LawWorks Not-For-Profit Programme which delivers free legal advice to charities, voluntary and community organisations and social enterprises. During 2017/2018, real estate advice was provided to four charities advising on issues such as leases, property rights and securing long term occupancy. CITIZENS ADVICE DACORUM BENEFITS FROM THE LAWWORKS NOT-FOR-PROFIT PROGRAMME ‘Citizens Advice Dacorum, a small local charity in Dacorum, Hertfordshire, started receiving legal support from Shoosmiths‘ Birmingham office in December 2016, when our application to LawWorks for advice in respect of a lease for new premises was picked up by a solicitor at the firm. Although we moved to our new offices in December 2017, it has taken until June 2018 for all the ends to be tied up and throughout the process, everyone we‘ve dealt with has been helpful, friendly and professional, and the advice clear and comprehensive, with emails and calls responded to by return. The service provided could not have been better and we are so grateful to Shoosmiths, and in particular, Nicola Brain and Emma Pearce, for all their help and support throughout.’ Caroline Kahan, CEO Citizens Advice Dacorum  In our Manchester office our Family Law team provided monthly pro bono advice at the Manchester Free Legal Pro Bono Clinic at the Manchester Civil Justice Centre advising members of the public on family law issues and signposted to other services such as family mediation, social services, and domestic violence groups for example. Supervision was also provided to law students at the Manchester University Law Clinic. PRO BONO COST ORDER AWARDED TO THE ACCESS TO JUSTICE FOUNDATION In June 2017 the Access to Justice Foundation received payment of a pro bono cost order* of £1,350 from a developer. Shoosmiths had been instructed by a parent and campaigner of the Save the Judith Kerr Primary School Green Space Campaign. The campaign, with the assistance of Shoosmiths obtained planning permission for school use of the playgrounds which were threatened with development. The developer subsequently challenged the Friends’ planning permission by bringing a judicial review. Shoosmiths took conduct of the litigation, co-operated with the local authority, Southwark, and instructed Admas Habteslasie of Landmark Chambers as pro bono counsel. Two separate High Court judges refused (12 April 2017 and 16 May 2017) to grant permission for a judicial review and the pro bono cost order was made against the developer. 16 The school can now use the playing fields for sports, play, outdoor classrooms and extra-curricular activities until at least 2062. *Section 194 of the Legal Services Act 2007 enables the recovery of legal costs in cases where the party was represented for free. If a civil case is won with pro bono help, costs can be ordered by the court, or included in settlements. These costs cover any period when free representation was provided, and the amount is based on what a paying client would recover. HELPING INNOVATEHER BENEFIT FROM SHOOSMITHS’ PRO BONO ADVICE ‘InnovateHer is a movement dedicated to giving girls aged 12-16, the self-belief and skills needed to pursue a career in technology. Working primarily in disadvantaged areas, they use industry role models, events and schools-based Academies to reverse gender inequality, improve digital skills and invest in the future of our young people. Pro bono advice was given to InnovateHer to assist the organisation to protect its business and intellectual property rights arising through the services it commissions. Shoosmiths provided a precedent consultancy agreement which InnovateHer can use with the freelance industry tutors it engages with. The agreement ensures that all intellectual property rights created by freelance tutors in partnership with the team are assigned to InnovateHer on creation. ‘Our Creative Industries team supports businesses working in the creative, digital and tech sectors. It was great to be able to assist InnovateHer in this matter and contribute to their wider mission to make a positive difference to the tech sector and achieve more equality in society generally.’ Carol Isherwood, Associate, Shoosmiths LLP FIRST YEAR TRAINEES DELIVER SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS PRO BONO CHALLENGE ‘Every year we issue a CR challenge to our 1st year trainees and our 2017/2018 project was to instruct our trainees under appropriate supervision to provide legal advice to organisations that are addressing any of the global SDGs in the UK. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development is based on 17 global priorities for sustainable development to be achieved by 2030. Together the global goals set out an ambitious agenda for a better world by 2030 – fairer, safer, healthier, more prosperous and in better balance with nature. The 17 goals and 169 targets are interdependent. The goals are relevant to the UK and companies have a role to play, by tackling negative impacts, achieving positive good and collaborating with other organisations to leverage change. In addition to helping organisations unable to afford legal advice to progress their programmes the pro bono challenge aimed to:  set our trainees on a path of providing legal advice to those in need throughout their careers, making effective use of the lawyer’s unique skills;  find opportunities for legal advisers across the firm to collaborate on specific projects; and  further our efforts to raise awareness amongst staff of the goals, their relevance within UK society and the part the firm and individuals are able to play in the workplace and at home. During the challenge advice included:  researching for the Renewal Trust, a Nottingham charitable trust which aims to stimulate enterprise and develop communities to relieve poverty in economically and socially deprived inner city areas of the city. Research was undertaken concerning the legal framework, regulatory issues and risks regarding care initiatives that are destined to combat loneliness in the elderly of Nottingham; 17  advising a homeless focused charity that will provide a formal agreement between the charity and its clients residing at its property;  drafting articles of association for a non-profit organisation promoting ethical business practice;  producing a lease report on a charity’s property to outline continuing lease obligations under the lease and in the future;  commercial and intellectual property advice for a community interest company;  advice regarding a terminal schedule of dilapidations and landlord settlement advice;  advice on negotiating and agreeing a lease of woodland to be used by the charity for recreational/educational purposes; and  supporting existing pro bono clinics operated by Shoosmiths. Once again our first year trainee group have delivered a successful challenge, not just for the benefit of their own development, but for the development of others, for the benefit of the firm and our clients. We continually strive to develop the skills and qualities of our solicitors, whilst doing ‘good’ and this has been a great challenge to achieve all those goals.’ Sam Hope, Graduate Recruitment Manager, Shoosmiths During 2018 we published 189 legal updates on our Shoosmiths website and articles relevant to the human rights and labour agenda covered such issues as: Absence management policies: https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legalupdates/break-down-handbook-absence-management-policies-13991.aspx CCTV: https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legal-updates/covert-cctv-at-work-isthis-ever-possible-13815.aspx Dignity at work: https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legal-updates/breaking-downthe-handbook-dignity-at-work-policy-14393.aspx Disability discrimination: https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legalupdates/disability-discrimination-be-aware-of-hidden-disability-13733.aspx https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legal-updates/landmark-disabilitydiscrimination-decision-14183.aspx Disciplinary and grievance procedures: https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legalupdates/disciplinary-and-grievance-procedures-13825.aspx Dismissing employees due to right to work issues: https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/clientresources/legal-updates/dismissing-employees-due-to-right-to-work-issues-13746.aspx Drug and alcohol policies: https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legal-updates/drugand-alcohol-policies.aspx Email, internet and social media policies: https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legalupdates/breaking-down-handbook-email-internet-social-policies-14180.aspx Employee handbooks: https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legal-updates/makingsure-your-handbook-is-fit-for-purpose-13781.aspx 18 Fathers and the workplace: https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legalupdates/fathers-workplace-difficulties-continue-14302.aspx Flexible working: https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legal-updates/the-continuedspotlight-on-flexible-working-14574.aspx https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legal-updates/focus-on-flexible-workingpolicies-14596.aspx Gender pay gap reporting: https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legalupdates/gender-pay-gap-so-you-missed-the-deadline-what-now-14013.aspx Gender Recognition Certificates: https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legalupdates/gender-recognition-certificates-a-simplified-process.aspx General Data Protection Regulation: https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legalupdates/gdpr-100-days-are-you-ready-13784.aspx https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legal-updates/ico-publishes-draft-dataprotection-fees-guidance-13818.aspx https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legal-updates/data-retention-impact-gdpremployers-13847.aspx https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legal-updates/consent-progression-legalbases-processing-14019.aspx https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legal-updates/happy-gdpr-day-14157.aspx https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legal-updates/three-eras-sunset-500k-dawnof-gdpr-and-brexit-14629.aspx https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legal-updates/gdpr-what-next-14670.aspx https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legal-updates/gdpr-five-months-on-icoguidance-update.aspx Law Commission commonhold system consultation: https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/clientresources/legal-updates/can-commonhold-be-reinvigorated.aspx Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender Action Plan: https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/clientresources/legal-updates/action-stations-everyone-lgbt-action-plan-is-here-or-is-it-14588.aspx LGBT History Month: https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legal-updates/lgbthistory-month-lest-us-forget-13777.aspx Maternity pay: https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legal-updates/pay-riseincrease-rate-maternity-pay-13767.aspx #metoo: https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legal-updates/metoo-despite-theheadlines-the-vast-majority-of-workplaces-are-unaffected.aspx Migrant workers: https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legal-updates/sponsorshipmanagement-tips-licence-holders-part-one-14383.aspx National minimum wage: https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legal-updates/sportsclubs-playing-fair-with-national-minimum-wage-14482.aspx 19 Redundancy consultation: https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legalupdates/collective-consultation-when-is-the-duty-triggered-14016.aspx https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legal-updates/individual-redundancyconsultation-how-should-be-done-14345.aspx https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legal-updates/collective-redundancyconsultation-how-should-be-done-14488.aspx Refund scheme launched for fees paid to the Office of the Public Guardian: https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legal-updates/refund-scheme-for-fees-paidto-office-public-guardian-13772.aspx Residential tenants: https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legal-updates/help-forresidential-tenants-13840.aspx Sexual harassment allegations: https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legalupdates/ensuring-your-workplace-is-equipped-to-deal-with-sexual-harassmentallegations.aspx Time off work policies: https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legal-updates/breakingdown-the-handbook-time-off-work-policies.aspx Whistleblowing policies: https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legalupdates/employers-need-to-know-about-whistleblowing-policies-14264.aspx Working time regulations and rest breaks: https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legalupdates/working-time-regulations-and-rest-breaks-13915.aspx We also provide e learning courses on a range of topics including: Data protection and GDPR compliance: http://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/dataprotection-10023.aspx Equality and diversity: http://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/equality-and-diversity10044.aspx Modern slavery transparency in supply chains: http://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/clientresources/modern-slavery-transparency-in-supply-chains-10718.aspx Prevention of illegal working: http://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/prevention-ofillegal-working-13187.aspx Recruiting fairly: http://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/recruiting-fairly-10019.aspx In addition 65 news updates were published in 2018 on our Access Legal Solicitors website including articles relevant to the human rights agenda at https://www.accesslegalsolicitors.co.uk/news 20 On this site our knowledgeable expert lawyers keep you informed about the latest developments in the law as it affects individuals and their families. News articles that clarify and explain the story behind the headlines or highlight areas of interest and how the law works. Whether you’re looking for advice on personal injury, medical negligence, industrial disease, education or protecting the interests of vulnerable people, here is where you will find informed commentary by acknowledged experts written in plain English on the legal problems or issues that matter most to you. The Access Legal Solicitors websites also features case studies and client stories and during the year relevant case studies included: https://www.accesslegalsolicitors.co.uk/personal-injury/personal-injury-case-studies/cosmesisscarring-improves-quality-life-rehab-recovery https://www.accesslegalsolicitors.co.uk/personal-injury/personal-injury-case-studies/amputeecompensation-rehabilitation-rta-accident https://www.accesslegalsolicitors.co.uk/personal-injury/personal-injury-case-studies/150000-awardinjured-cyclist-suffered-post-traumatic-amnesia https://www.accesslegalsolicitors.co.uk/personal-injury/personal-injury-case-studies/right-formulasuccessful-cycle-accident-claim https://www.accesslegalsolicitors.co.uk/serious-injury/serious-injury-case-studies/837000-gbpcompensation-cycle-accident-personal-injury https://www.accesslegalsolicitors.co.uk/personal-injury/personal-injury-case-studies/200000-gbpcompensation-work-accident https://www.accesslegalsolicitors.co.uk/medical-negligence/medical-negligence-casestudies/negligently-performed-biopsy-curtailed-firefighter-career https://www.accesslegalsolicitors.co.uk/medical-negligence/medical-negligence-casestudies/compensation-failure-recognise-treat-fractured-hip https://www.accesslegalsolicitors.co.uk/medical-negligence/medical-negligence-casestudies/misreporting-cervical-smear-test-tragic-consequences https://www.accesslegalsolicitors.co.uk/medical-negligence/medical-negligence-case-studies/basicmistakes-before-operation-led-to-life-changing-injuries https://www.accesslegalsolicitors.co.uk/medical-negligence/medical-negligence-casestudies/settlement-delay-diagnosing-malignant-breast-tumour-cancer https://www.accesslegalsolicitors.co.uk/medical-negligence/medical-negligence-case-studies/lackinformed-consent-led-inappropriate-ineffective-surgery-tvt-mesh https://www.accesslegalsolicitors.co.uk/medical-negligence/medical-negligence-casestudies/compensation-delayed-diagnosis-testicular-torsion https://www.accesslegalsolicitors.co.uk/medical-negligence/medical-negligence-case-studies/fatalinjury-during-surgery-coventry-mother-family-compensation https://www.accesslegalsolicitors.co.uk/medical-negligence/medical-negligence-case-studies/nerveinjury-dominant-arm-routine-surgery https://www.accesslegalsolicitors.co.uk/medical-negligence/medical-negligence-casestudies/gallstone-surgery-complications-compensation https://www.accesslegalsolicitors.co.uk/medical-negligence/medical-negligence-case-studies/anklearthrodesis-fusion-surgery-compensation https://www.accesslegalsolicitors.co.uk/medical-negligence/medical-negligence-case-studies/dentalsurgery-injury-compensation-oac https://www.accesslegalsolicitors.co.uk/medical-negligence/medical-negligence-casestudies/substantial-damages-award-negligent-treatment-glaucoma 21 https://www.accesslegalsolicitors.co.uk/medical-negligence/medical-negligence-casestudies/helping-parents-get-truth-stillbirth https://www.accesslegalsolicitors.co.uk/medical-negligence/medical-negligence-casestudies/questions-remain-why-youngster-died-meningitis-b https://www.accesslegalsolicitors.co.uk/children-and-vulnerable-adults/children-and-vulnerableadults-case-studies/vulnerable-adult-mistreated-care-home https://www.accesslegalsolicitors.co.uk/children-and-vulnerable-adults/children-and-vulnerableadults-case-studies/failings-care-home-results-death-elderly-resident https://www.accesslegalsolicitors.co.uk/children-and-vulnerable-adults/children-and-vulnerableadults-case-studies/avoidable-pressure-sores-led-to-elderly-resident-death https://www.accesslegalsolicitors.co.uk/other-legal-services/other-legal-services-case-studies/ehcpsen-education-fighting-oscar-gerring-future https://www.accesslegalsolicitors.co.uk/other-legal-services/other-legal-services-casestudies/assuring-inheritance-cohabitee Guides published included: https://www.accesslegalsolicitors.co.uk/personal-injury/personal-injury-guides/specialists-cycleaccident-injury-claims https://www.accesslegalsolicitors.co.uk/personal-injury/personal-injury-guides/guide-what-to-doafter-cycle-accident https://www.accesslegalsolicitors.co.uk/personal-injury/personal-injury-guides/guide-residentialcare-home-vulnerable-elderly-nursing https://www.accesslegalsolicitors.co.uk/medical-negligence/medical-negligence-guides/guidesymptoms-meningitis https://www.accesslegalsolicitors.co.uk/other-legal-services/other-legal-services-guides/whathappens-when-care-home-closes 4b. Organisations we have worked with In addition to fundraising during the year for a number of organisations focused on aspects of human rights or labour we also participated in: Organisation Activity/Outcome for organisation Active Working CIC’s focus is to reduce Via our office health and safety teams we excessive and prolonged sitting in the shared the benefits of change of posture workplace. It runs for example Get and movement and highlighted the Get Standing™ campaigns in the UK and other Britain Standing campaign in April 2018. countries. Aspiring Solicitors is an organisation Shoosmiths has been a partner of Aspiring committed to ensuring that the most Solicitors since November 2016. talented candidates with the greatest potential as lawyers maximise their chances of success. Birmingham Black Lawyers (BBL) is about Our Birmingham office hosted an insight embracing diversity within the Birmingham event in February 2018 for BBL’s student legal community. members, with a view to encouraging a higher number of applications for the firm’s vacation scheme and training contracts from 22 BAME candidates. Several short work experience days were subsequently offered to students following the event. Brainwave is a charity concerned with Our Manchester office took part in the cerebral palsy, autism and developmental annual corporate duck race at Spinningfields delay in children. Former Shoosmiths Easter Duck Race in April 2018 donating national charity partner. £250. British Red Cross helps millions of people in Tragic events in Manchester and London led the UK and around the world get the to several offices raising funds for the support they need if crisis strikes. British Red Cross Manchester and UK wide appeals and a firm contribution. £3,702.86 was raised and donated. Business in the Community (BITC) is the We are a corporate member of BITC, a Prince’s Responsible Business Network. member of the East Midlands Advisory Members work together to tackle a range of Board and support the West Midlands issues that are essential to building a fairer ProHelp programme. Supported events society and a more sustainable future. included speaking at and hosting a slavery and human trafficking workshop in Nottingham and hosting BITC meetings in several offices. Campaign for Learning charity works The national Learning at Work Week has towards social inclusion through learning. been organised by the charity as an annual event in May since 1999 aiming to put a spotlight on the importance and benefits of learning and development at work. Central and East Northamptonshire Citizens Our Northampton office has provided pro Advice provides advice to people on a wide bono services since November 2011 via a range of problems. monthly appointment based pro bono clinic operated in conjunction with the University of Northampton School of Law. Children in Need charity raises funds to Our Solent and Thames Valley offices raised relieve need, hardship, sickness, handicap £216.11 in November 2017. and distress amongst children and young persons. Citizens Advice Basingstoke and Tadley In 2017/2018 our Basingstoke office provides professional advice to local people continued to provide support for pro bono and families. clinics with attendance at four clinics. Citizenship Foundation enables a greater Our Birmingham office hosted a mock trial number of young citizens to participate conference in November 2017. actively in society by equipping children and young people to make a positive difference to the society in which they live – locally, nationally and globally. City Legal Sector Diversity and Inclusion We participate in the network to share best Forum provides an opportunity to share practice across the sector. good practice across the sector. 23 CommuniCare is a support centre in East Our Thames Valley office has provided pro Reading that provides advice on a range of bono services since November 2009 and issues. holds a monthly legal clinic operated in conjunction with the University of Reading School of Law. Disaster Emergency Committee is an A £300 firm donation was made in May umbrella organisation which launches and 2017 to the East Africa Appeal launched to co-ordinates responses to major disasters help 19 million people urgently needing overseas. food, water, or medical treatment. Emmanuel House has supported homeless Our Nottingham office organised a Reverse and vulnerable adults in Nottingham for Advent Calendar in December 2018 with over forty years. It also provides support seven festive boxes delivered to the centre. services, including tenancies, benefits, mental health support, training and workshops, drug and alcohol support, a daily nurse and a programme of social activities. Ethical Reading is a not for profit social Shoosmiths helped to sponsor the launch enterprise with a mission to help embed event in January 2018 and became a ethics into the way people live and work in founding partner in February 2018. We Reading. have also provided pro bono corporate and commercial legal advice. Forces in the Community is a Nottingham Our Northampton office selected Forces in based charity which supports ex-service the Community as its office charity partner personnel and their families to reach their in November 2017 raising and donating full potential. It delivers tailored £634.80. employment guidance, housing advice, mental health support and provides a supportive environment in which to develop. The charity supports clients and their families who are often disadvantaged and at a point of crisis in their lives. Framework is a charity and housing Our Nottingham office raised £140 in association dedicated to helping homeless February 2018 by organising a ‘Shoo-p’ people, preventing homelessness and Kitchen fundraiser. promoting opportunities for vulnerable and excluded people throughout the East Midlands. The charity helps more than 11,000 people every year. GambleAware aims to promote GambleAware hosted a talk and training responsibility in gambling. It provides session for staff in November 2017 to information to help people make informed recognise signs of gambling addiction decisions about gambling, and where to go during customer calls as well as advice on for further information, help and support. places customers can be signposted to for help and advice. The Girls’ Network aims to inspire and 13 Solent colleagues completed mentoring empower girls by connecting them with a students from Horndean Technology College network of positive role models. It believes during the 2017/2018 academic year, 24 all girls have a right to be able to access the providing guidance and support at monthly best opportunities available and should not office sessions on CV writing and confidence be limited by their gender or where they building skills. come from. High Close School Wokingham is a day and Our Thames Valley office donated more residential school supporting and educating than 50 Christmas toy donations in children with learning and behavioural December 2017. challenges and those with special needs. International Women’s Day is a global day Offices celebrated the day including a celebrating the social, economic, cultural number of LeanIn events in our and political achievements of women. It Birmingham, London, Northampton, takes place on March 8. Nottingham, Solent and Thames Valley offices. Activities included coffee morning fundraising for the Nottingham Women’s Centre charity, discussions on equality issues and exploring ideas for future events. Investors in People reflects the very best in Shoosmiths was re-accredited to Gold people management excellence and is Standard status in August 2017. based on nine indicators underpinned by the three themes Leading, Improving and Supporting. Launchpad charity helps some of Reading’s Our Thames Valley office selected most vulnerable and disadvantaged people Launchpad as its office charity partner and to turn their lives around and fulfil their beneficiary of Pennies from Heaven coin potential. It provides three services; collection scheme and firm-wide silent housing with support, preventing auction in 2017/2018 raising and donating homelessness and a drop-in service. £8,444.03. LawCare promotes and supports good The work of the charity and how it can help mental health and wellbeing in the legal was highlighted to staff during National community. Work Life Week in October 2017 and Time to Talk Day 1 February 2018. LawWorks works in England and Wales to Shoosmiths has been a member of connect volunteer lawyers with people in LawWorks since 2009. We support pro bono need of legal advice. clinics operating to LawWorks clinics models. Our Real Estate Division supports the LawWorks Not-For-Profit Programme whereby small not-for-profit organisations are provided with legal advice on a pro bono basis. The Law Society is the representative body Founding signatory 2009 of the Diversity for solicitors in England and Wales. and Inclusion Charter. Founding signatory November 2016 of the Pro Bono Charter. London Legal Support Trust raises funds for Our Thames Valley office took part in the free legal advice services in London and the Reading Legal Walk September 2017 raising South East. £50. The Mental Health Foundation is committed In July 2017 we partnered with the Mental to good mental health for all and believes Health Foundation’s mindfulness 25 the social challenge of our time is to reverse programme and provided staff with the the growing level of mental ill health. opportunity to access an online course produced by Wellmind Media in conjunction with the Mental Health Foundation. The course is part of the Be Mindful initiative to raise public awareness of mindfulness and improve the availability of mindfulness training. We also provided a dedicated mindfulness page on our intranet for staff to access other useful resources. Midland Legal Support Trust aims to Northampton colleagues took part in the improve access to justice for the most Northampton Legal Walk April 2018. £250 vulnerable in society. raised and donated. Milton Keynes Community Foundation is the In May 2010, the Shoosmiths Fund was leading grant-making charity in Milton established by the Milton Keynes office with Keynes. It connects people and resources to the Milton Keynes Community Foundation. projects and ideas to create positive change The Foundation was also a beneficiary of in the community. the Pennies from Heaven scheme and the firm-wide silent auction. We contributed to a number of projects totalling £5,027 in 2017/2018: MK Gallery: £4,000 was donated to MK Gallery on 17th October 2017 to fund Art and Us, a new programme of stimulating and enjoyable art activities for families with children aged five plus with complex needs. Funding helped to develop the expertise, confidence and capacity of the MK Gallery learning team and Associate Artists to deliver a stimulating, challenging and enjoyable programme of art explorations and activities engaging families with a child or children with a physical or learning disability. Awake to Know Africa: £477.00 was donated to Awake to Know Africa on 22 January 2018 towards an event to showcase the talents of local young people to connect communities, sharing and celebrating different cultures, creating important opportunity for people to meet and make lasting connections. Truby’s Garden Tea Room: £550.00 was donated towards the Great Get Together Iftaar on 17 April 2018, which invited people from a variety of backgrounds together for the opening of the fast during Ramadan, promoting dialogue across faith and cultural groups to build trust and 26 cohesion within the Milton Keynes community. Mind, the mental health charity won’t give Shoosmiths has been a supporter of Time to up until everyone experiencing a mental Change since January 2017. The campaign health problem gets support and respect. is an anti-discrimination initiative founded by charities Mind and Rethink Mental Illness working to change the way we think and act about mental health. The Mustard Tree charity operates across Our Manchester office selected the Mustard Greater Manchester, providing food, Tree as its office charity partner and clothing, furniture and training for beneficiary of the Pennies from Heaven staff individuals in need. Its beneficiaries include coin collection scheme and firm-wide silent those experiencing or at risk of auction in 2017/2018 raising and donating homelessness, those recovering from £7,356.55. addictions, ex-offenders, refugees, asylum seekers and those with mental health issues. Mustard Tree’s programmes help people re-find their confidence, motivation and employment. National Institute of Conductive Education In October 2017, Access Legal Solicitors (NICE) improves health and social care attended and contributed to the charity’s through evidence-based guidance. ‘Red Boots Ball’ which raised £34,000 to help continue the work of teaching children and adults with neurological movement disorders to gain greater control of their bodies. Our Birmingham office hosted a reception on 28 February 2018 for the charity to highlight the work it has been undertaking during the past year. Access Legal Solicitors gave a talk highlighting cases where children and adults have benefited from intervention by NICE. Access Legal Solicitors also visited NICE on several occasions to deliver seminars to parents to better inform them of their legal rights. We were also able to help families more directly through individual instructions and secured placements at the expense of the council at the Red Boots School. £264.41 was also raised in July 2017. National Work Life Week took place 2 to 6 To support the week we published intranet October 2017 providing an opportunity for articles on the employee assistance employers and employees to focus on programme, support available via LawCare, wellbeing at work and work-life balance our policies to balance work-life, an while also raising awareness of some of the introduction to resilience and an interview initiatives already in place to support this. with a partner who explained his experience of shared parental leave. 27 Northampton and District Mind charity Our Northampton office selected offers support to anyone who faces mental Northampton and District Mind as its office health challenges, promoting and charity partner in February 2018 to coincide supporting good mental health within the wiith Time to Talk Day 1 February. The areas of Northampton, Brackley, Towcester, charity was also a recipient of Pennies from and South Northants. Heaven salary pennies during 2017/2018. £3,264.21 was raised and donated. Northampton Hope Centre works to relieve Our Northampton office donated £1,000 in poverty and tackle the causes of February 2018. homelessness in Northampton by giving people a hand up, not a hand out. Northamptonshire Association of Youth In March 2018 our Northampton office Clubs aims to help and educate young donated £300 towards its Emerging Leaders people to develop their physical, mental and project. The donation will enable three spiritual capacities that they may grow to young people from disadvantaged full maturity as individuals and as members backgrounds to take part in this course and of society. develop their skills. Northamptonshire County Council. Christmas gifts (via the Christmas Bauble Appeal) were donated by colleagues for distribution to disadvantaged children in the county. 460 Easter Eggs were also donated to the Easter Egg Challenge. Northamptonshire Phoenix Wheelchair Committee meetings are hosted at the Basketball Club is a member of British Northampton office. Wheelchair Basketball. Northants Street Angels is a collective of Our Northampton office donated £1,002 like-minded people offering a helping hand worth of goods in March 2018 which to those homeless and less fortunate in the included sleeping bags, tents, food, textiles, Northampton area. Supporters help by toiletries, thermal clothing and drinks. collecting donations from the public and redistributing them to those in need. Nottingham Women’s Centre is run by Our Nottingham office selected Nottingham women, for women. It aims to help all Women’s Centre as its office charity partner women gain the confidence and skills to and beneficiary of Pennies from Heaven achieve their potential and become stronger coin collection scheme and firm-wide silent and more independent. It provides a safe auction in 2016/2018 raising and donating and supportive environment in which £5,451.11 during 2017/2018. Other women can do this, either by taking part in activities included pro bono advice, training or activities, getting support and volunteering, providing use of meeting services, or campaigning and becoming rooms, donating furniture and stationery. active in bringing about change. PAPYRUS Prevention of Young Suicide exists Our Solent office made a £100 donation in to reduce the number of young people who March 2018. take their own lives by shattering the stigma about suicide and equipping young people and their communities with the skills to recognise and respond to suicidal behaviour. 28 ReachOut is a mentoring charity working Our London office selected ReachOut as its with young people in disadvantaged office charity partner and beneficiary of the communities to raise aspirations and help Pennies from Heaven staff coin collection them grow in character and attainment. scheme and firm-wide silent auction in 2017/2018 raising and donating £3,282.90. Rethink Mental Illness creates better lives Shoosmiths has been a supporter of Time to for people affected by mental health. Change since January 2017. The campaign is an anti-discrimination initiative founded by charities Mind and Rethink Mental Illness working to change the way we think and act about mental health. Romsey and District Young Carers Project Our Solent office made a £100 donation in supports young carers in Romsey and the March 2018. Southern Test Valley. Save the Children in the UK and around the Our Milton Keynes office took part in a world, gives children a healthy start in life, national Jumper Day 14 December 2017 the opportunity to learn and protection from raising 86.40. harm. Shelter believes everyone should have a 45 colleagues competed in the Vertical Rush home. It helps millions of people every year challenge at London’s Tower 42 in memory struggling with bad housing or of a dearly missed colleague. £32,345 homelessness through its advice, support raised and donated. A further £155.93 was and legal services. It also campaigns to raised from supporting activities. make sure that, one day, no one will have to turn to the charity for help. Smart Works charity offers a dressing and In April 2018 our Birmingham office interview preparation service for organised a collection of smart, interviewunemployed women who have a job appropriate, good quality work wear e.g. interview. suits, dresses, skirts, trousers, blouses, shoes, handbags etc. Colleagues also attended a fundraising evening in April 2018. The Social Mobility Commission monitors In June 2017 the Social Mobility Foundation progress towards improving social mobility and the Social Mobility Commission in in the UK, and promotes social mobility in partnership with the City of London England. It is an advisory non-departmental Corporation published the first annual Social public body sponsored by the Cabinet Office Mobility Index. The index ranked Britain’s and the Department for Education. employers for the first time on the actions they were taking to ensure they are open to accessing and progressing talent from all backgrounds and showcases progress towards social mobility. Shoosmiths completed the index and was ranked 62 out of 98 participating firms. The Social Mobility Foundation aims to In June 2017 the Social Mobility Foundation make a practical improvement in social and the Social Mobility Commission in mobility for young people from low-income partnership with the City of London backgrounds. Corporation published the first annual Social 29 Mobility Index. The index ranked Britain’s employers for the first time on the actions they were taking to ensure they are open to accessing and progressing talent from all backgrounds and showcases progress towards social mobility. Shoosmiths completed the index and was ranked 62 out of 98 participating firms. The Society of St James is a Hampshire Our Solent office selected the Society of St. based charity providing accommodation and James as its charity partner and beneficiary support to over 2,500 people each year. It of the Pennies from Heaven collection believes everyone has a right to a home, scheme and firm-wide silent auction in that people should be given the opportunity 2017/2018 raising and donating £4,534.73. to develop the skills they need to lead a fulfilling life. Sport Relief is a biennial charity event Our Northampton office selected Sport organised by Comic Relief in association Relief as its office charity partner in March with BBC Sport. It brings together the 2018 raising and donating £816.72. worlds of sport and entertainment to raise money to help vulnerable people both in the UK and the world’s poorest countries. Talk, Listen, Change charity offers a range Shoosmiths’ family team in our Manchester of services from counselling to family office sponsored the charity’s first mediation, parenting support and domestic anniversary ball 27 April 2018 helping the violence prevention. charity to raise £9,000. The Manchester office has also provided meeting room facilities for training activities. Time to Talk Day aims to get as many We used the day on 1 February 2018 to people as possible talking about mental remind staff that we want everyone to be health and is led by Mind and Rethink feel they can be open about their mental Illness with the goal of breaking the silence health and to ask for support if they need it. that often surrounds mental health and We highlighted the internal and external showing that this once taboo subject does confidential services available including an not need to be difficult to talk about. Employee Assistance Programme and the help that the charity LawCare provides. In our Manchester, Northampton and Nottingham offices information was circulated, the Nottingham office served a trolley of treats as a random act of kindness and in Northampton conversation starters were placed around the building and the charity Northampton and District Mind was supported as the February charity of the month. The UK Stakeholders for Sustainable Shoosmiths became a partner of UKSSD in Development (UKSSD) provides a space to July 2017. mobilise organisations so they can play their part to create a sustainable UK. 30 The United Nations Global Compact is a Shoosmiths has been a signatory since 27 voluntary initiative based on Chief Executive January 2016, has now produced three Officer commitments to implement universal annual Communications on Progress (COP) principles on human rights, labour, and is a member of the UK Network and environment and anti-corruption and to three UK working groups on Modern undertake actions that advance societal Slavery, Sustainable Development Goals goals. Reporting and Diversity and Inclusion. VoiceAbility supports people who face Our Northampton office selected disadvantage or discrimination to have a VoiceAbility as its office charity partner in voice that counts. It has pioneered new April 2018 raising and donating £675.25. ways of enabling people to be heard and have rights, ranging from the creation of local Parliaments run by people with learning disabilities to new statutory services supporting people with the highest support needs facing the most critical decisions. Warwick Academy Primary School. In June 2017 a Northampton team of volunteers renovated the Academy’s garden. Women’s Aid, Belfast provides confidential Our Belfast office donated £300 worth of support, information and emergency essentials such as towels and toiletries. accommodation for women and children affected by domestic violence. Working Families charity is the UK’s leading Shoosmiths took part in national Work Life work-life balance organisation. It helps Week 2 to 6 October 2017. The campaign working parents and carers and their co-ordinated by the charity aims to highlight employers find a better balance between the benefits of facilitating the wellbeing and responsibilities at home and work. Its sister work life balance for employees so that they organisation is Family Friendly Working are engaged, motivated and productive at Scotland. work. Wood Street Mission provides practical Our Manchester office, in December 2017, support for children and families living in collected five bags of items for the Wood Manchester and Salford that are affected by Street Mission Christmas Appeal which helps poverty. families struggling to make ends meet at what can be an especially difficult and expensive time of year. 4c. Our 2017/2018 human rights and labour targets Appendix 2 of our annual CR Reports includes key performance data from 2013/2014 onwards relating to number of partners, personnel by management grade, full and part time employees, number of promotions at each grade, work shadowing placements, employees by gender, ethnicity, sexual orientation, age, religion or belief, socio-economic background: school and higher education, pro bono and volunteering hours. Key: √ – achieved IP – in progress X – not achieved 31 Objective Attracting, developing and retaining the best talent by reinforcing our values and providing a stimulating and rewarding work environment. Achieve Investors in People platinum status Gold status achieved during reX during 2017 re-accreditation. accreditation in August 2017. Conduct regular engagement with staff on their Our 1st year trainee pro bono challenge. We √ contribution to the 2030 SDGs. also used Earth Hour Day 24 March 2018 to highlight SDG 13 and we have invited each office to adopt a SDG in 2018/2019. Conduct health and safety planning to the Ongoing long term project. IP planned OHSAS 45001 standard with the longterm view of integrating environmental management into an improved health and safety management system. Develop a wellbeing policy and raise awareness Completed. √ of mental health and appropriate support. Continue to develop our work on diversity and Completed. √ inclusion including addressing the gender imbalance in senior roles. 4d. Our 2018/2019 human rights and labour targets Key: √ – achieved IP – in progress X – not achieved Objective Attracting, developing and retaining the best talent by reinforcing our values and providing a stimulating and rewarding working environment. Conduct training and development of staff to ensure ongoing competency and provision of sound customer support and legal advice. Conduct regular engagement with staff on their contribution to the 2030 SDGs. Progress integration of environmental management into an improved health and safety management system. Establish a mental health champion network across all offices. Continue to develop our work on diversity and inclusion including addressing the gender imbalance in senior roles. Expand data published as part of gender pay gap reporting beyond the legal requirement, to include information on partners. 32 5. Environment Principles 7 to 9 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should adopt a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Shoosmiths is committed to protecting the environment by demonstrating high standards of environmental responsibility in all its operations and preventing or mitigating the environmental impacts associated with our activities, products and services. Continual improvement forms part of our approach in order that we can achieve an overall positive environmental impact as a result of the way we do business. Our published environmental policies are: Environment policy Energy policy Waste management policy Our environment programme for the period 2016/2019 concentrates on:  striving to achieve balance in the three pillars of sustainability – environment, society and the economy; and  working with our suppliers to improve our sustainability performance. The most material issues for our business are: procurement and resource use; energy consumption and carbon emissions associated with our buildings, IS systems and employee travel; and waste and recycling. Solutions lie in the management of our operations, investment in new, and alternative technologies, working with our suppliers and encouraging behavioural best practice across our teams. Our environmental management system Our environmental management system (EMS) is based on the ISO 14001:2015 standard. Our environmental policy statement defines our approach in striving to achieve balance in the three pillars of sustainability environment, society and the economy. Our procurement and supplier management policy sets out our approach to managing our indirect environmental and social impacts and we work with our suppliers to identify opportunities to reduce impacts. Shoosmiths operates an incident reporting system which includes environmental incidents. No environmental incidents were recorded during 2017/2018. We measure and minimise the environmental impacts associated with our use of resources (including energy use) and the waste we generate from our buildings and as a result of the services provided to clients. Our 12 offices in 11 locations include both single lease and multi-tenanted buildings. Our Birmingham office (multi-tenanted) at Colmore Square holds an ‘excellent’ BREEAM (Building Research Establishment 33 Environmental Assessment Methodology) rating as does the Manchester office in the X,Y,Z building in Spinningfields, occupied from June 2017. The Apex Plaza building (multi-tenanted), Thames Valley is ISO 14001:2015 certified and our Leeds office is EPC A rated. Where we have direct control of our offices, for example buildings where we are the sole tenant, we have a greater ability to influence change. Where we do not have direct control, we liaise with our landlords to identify opportunities, for example through tenant sustainability working groups. During 2017/2018, we undertook internal office environmental audits as part of our annual health, safety and environmental audits. This process is managed by our Health and Safety Manager. We also employed an external consultancy to conduct one-day site audits of our Edinburgh (multi-tenanted) and Nottingham (multi-tenanted) offices to assess environmental legislative and best practice compliance. Findings were that the sites were well managed, staff showed a good understanding of requirements and were committed to continual improvement. Minor improvement opportunities mainly related to administrative aspects of waste and refrigerants. Agile working Shoosmiths was one of the first major law firms to move to agile working following the trial of Shoosmiths Agile in our Thames Valley office in 2016. Greater flexibility in the working environment enables staff to work anywhere in the office or remotely and is reinforced by an enhanced IS infrastructure using the latest software and phone systems. By offering modern ways of working and recognising the value of agile working to staff wellbeing and collaborative working Shoosmiths is attractive as a preferred employer for the next generation of talent. The Manchester and Nottingham agile working roll outs were completed June 2017 and our Leeds office converted to agile working in February 2018. From September 2016, a refurbishment programme had commenced at the Lakes office in Northampton which was completed by March 2018. Refurbishment included heating, lighting and ventilation changes and trialling a new desk layout working environment in conveyancing. Environmental improvements included replacing our water-based air-conditioning system with a dry air-based system which is anticipated to reduce energy consumption by 30% and the elimination of business disruption due to potential flooding. During 2018/2019, we will move to new agile working offices in Solent and close our Victoria House, Northampton office with our IS team relocating to the Lakes office. By the end of April 2018 36% (versus 60% target) of our employees had transitioned to agile working and 45% (versus 50% target) of our offices converted to support task working. Resource management During 2017/2018 there was a continued focus on paper light working through the practical use of divisional protocols, which details how and when colleagues effectively use electronic and paper storage solutions. As a consequence, we saw our printed sheets consumption reduce by a further 1.8% to 27.5 million pages (versus 28 million sheets in 2016/2017). This was lower than was originally forecast due to the growth of the firm. However on a like for like basis, the printed sheet consumption per full time employee (fte) per month reduced from 1,633 to 1,429, a 12.5% reduction. 34 Stationery Our approach is to use recycled stationery where we can and copier paper, which is our highest usage paper is Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) certified. We will continue to investigate new opportunities during 2018/2019. During 2017/2018, Shoosmiths used 1,062 lines of stationery, of which 130 have a defined environmental benefit. Of these lines, 20 products have 100% recycled content and 109 partial recycled content. We used six FSC-certified paper products, which constituted about 91% of our paper spend. For the fifth consecutive year we reported paper consumption data to the Law Society’s Legal Sustainability Alliance (LSA), a collaborative network committed to environmental improvement. Donation of used IT equipment We work with partner organisations to ensure that equipment that can no longer be used within the business is re-used or recycled by others. Since 2008, Shoosmiths has donated redundant IT equipment to Computer Aid International, a charity that helps disadvantaged communities to access digital equipment that will improve their lives. Computer Aid takes the equipment, wipes the data from it and donates it to different programmes across the world. Our computers typically have a five-year life and by donating them in this way we can extend the life of our equipment by another three to four years. During 2017/2018, 446 IT assets were donated (3,313 kg) to Computer Aid. Of the 446 items donated 237 units were re-used (1,726 kg) and 209 (1,587 kg) were recycled with the re-used assets sent to one project in India, five projects in Africa and two in the UK. (34% to India, 22% to Togo, 16% to Burkina Faso, 12% to Ethiopia, 8% to Zambia, and 8% to the UK). No assets went to landfill as Computer Aid’s downstream partners operate a manual disassembly process, breaking down items to their constituent parts which are then sent to specialist refiners for re-use and recycling. Shoosmiths donates to computer projects in Africa, the UK and India London Computer Recycling, UK, India, Pakistan The company’s aim is to achieve as near to 100% re-use or recycling as possible. It has several community projects in India and Pakistan. Local distributors in these countries make use of re-usable computers by selling them at a subsidised cost to schools and individuals who otherwise would not be able to afford a computer. This benefits the local economy by providing a stable business for distributors and a low cost solution for young entrepreneurs who need a computer to start their businesses. It also helps local schools who cannot afford high-end equipment to access technology for their students. Atlantic Telecom, Togo Atlantic Telecom is a private West African telecom company. Its branch in Togo bought computers to build digital libraries all around the country through its CR department. It previously had one of Computer Aid’s ZubaBoxes in 2012 which travelled round the country with Miss Togo to raise awareness for Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) education. 35 The Association Evangelique d’Appui Development (AEAD), Burkino Faso AEAD is a West African non-governmental organisation that has operated in Burkina Faso for over 20 years. AEAD addresses the root causes of poverty by fully involving and empowering the local community. A core part of its programme is the provision of education opportunities. It runs and manages over 80 schools and literacy programmes. Rainbows4Children, Ethiopia Rainbows4Children provides education for children in Ethiopia, primarily the children of adults with disabilities. It has set up two schools, a training centre and an adult learning centre. Computer Aid International has been supporting the Nicolas Robinson School in Ethiopia since 2009 when it sent its first container of ICT equipment to its primary school. It has since grown to become the second best school in Tigray. The school was originally dedicated to disabled war veteran families, and as such, there is no selection process at the school. Ethiopian Knowledge and Technology Transfer Society (EKTTS) Computer Aid sent our used equipment to EKTTS, its Ethiopian partner hub which works with local government to set up ICT labs in primary and secondary schools across the country. Schoolnet, Zambia With SchoolNET Zambia, Computer Aid is running one of its eClasses projects to bring equipment and training to primary and secondary schools. SchoolNET promotes the integration and use of ICT in teaching and learning in educational institutions in Zambia by assisting them to set up their ICT. Evolve Housing, UK Evolve Housing is a leading homelessness charity in London providing supported housing for homeless people across eight London boroughs, working with 2,000 people each year. It provides a solution to homelessness through shelter, support and advice to over 700 people each day, who would otherwise be homeless. Computer Aid supplied the charity with Shoosmiths’ laptops for its beneficiaries. Milestone Community Training Centre, UK Milestone Community Centre (MCT) is an independent training provider established in 2015 which provides training for employers and individuals to learn and develop skills, with the view to encourage wider participation from hard to reach and disadvantaged individuals from any background. Improving skills is a priority for MCT, especially among those individuals who lack the basic skills for employability. Shoosmiths equipment has been donated for use in ICT training modules. ‘Shoosmiths’ generous donations of equipment help us to complete life-changing work around the world, we’re grateful that they continue to support our work and that they share our goal of re-use where possible.’ Alice Walker-Mitchell, Marketing Officer, Computer Aid International’ 36 Bottled water We use an on-site water purification system across our offices to provide freshly filtered water, both still and sparkling for our client and internal meetings. This has a lower carbon footprint than bottled mineral waters and because the bottles are re-used it reduces waste. Between May 2017 and April 2018, we consumed 40,218 litres of water and avoided 7.26 tonnes of glass. Energy Shoosmiths occupies sole and multi-tenanted buildings and consumes electricity and gas for heating, ventilation, air conditioning, lighting and IT equipment. We track electricity and gas consumption at our offices through monthly reporting. Our electricity consumption unfortunately increased by +23.51 % during 2017/2018 across the entire Shoosmiths estate with the increase particularly the effect of the space occupied by our Manchester office increasing from 20,239 ft² to 36,000 ft² when we moved offices in June 2017. At the sites where energy is controlled by Shoosmiths however (namely the two Northampton sites at the Lakes and Victoria House, Solent and Thames Valley) our electricity consumption fell by 11.28%. Our gas consumption decreased by 46.24 % (Belfast, the two Northampton offices and Solent). The reduction in gas consumption at sites under our control were particularly the result of the installation of the new heating and cooling system and boilers at our Lakes office. As our business continues to grow energy consumption must continue to be a focus, and new improvement opportunities identified. Smart travel Efficient driving techniques can help to reduce fuel use and associated emissions. Every driver who undertakes more than 5,000 business miles annually, carries out frequent business journeys or who is a newly qualified driver must complete online driver training every three years. We participate in the government’s Cycle to Work scheme. This initiative, co-ordinated on our behalf by the consultancy Gemelli Employee Benefits, seeks to encourage take-up of cycling as a more sustainable mode of transport that also improves general health and fitness. We publicise the scheme on our intranet and during induction training for new employees. During 2017/2018, 28 colleagues took part. Waste management FISco, our Estates Management provider, manages our office waste (general and recyclable) in two office locations (Northampton and Solent). Some waste streams at our Northampton office are managed on our behalf by a provider. At our other offices (Belfast, Birmingham, Edinburgh, Leeds, London, Manchester, Milton Keynes, Nottingham and Thames Valley), the landlords are responsible for managing waste contracts. Here we work with landlords alongside other tenants to identify ways of better managing our waste. We report data for waste produced in our Northampton, Nottingham and Solent offices as well as in our Basingstoke office until it closed in March 2018. In 2017/2018, these offices produced 63.84 tonnes of 37 general waste compared with 74.76 tonnes of waste produced in 2016/2017. Where we controlled such waste no waste was sent to landfill this year. FISco also manages confidential waste from all our offices, with the exception of Belfast, through a specialist company, Shred It, with 143.79 tonnes collected in 2017/2018. (Compared to 158.13 tonnes collected in 2016/2017). The waste was shredded and recycled into the approximate equivalent of 171.7 tonnes of recycled fibre – tissue and toilet paper. By recycling confidential waste 429.2 m³ of landfill space was avoided. We continue to focus effort to improve accuracy of recording waste. Water management Shoosmiths’ sites do not abstract or impound water and water management controls are within landlord controls and procedures. Shoosmiths ensures that relevant consents are in place and all conditions are complied with. Appendix 2 of our annual CR reports include data on our annual water consumption in buildings at locations under Shoosmiths’ control, namely Northampton (Lakes and Victoria House premises) and Solent. 5a. Helping our clients We published a number of environmental updates on such topics as: Asbestos risks in commercial properties: https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legalupdates/asbestos-risks-in-commercial-property-13807.aspx Business energy efficiency reporting: https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legalupdates/business-energy-efficiency-reporting-goodbye-crc-hello-secr.aspx Draft Tenant Fees Bill 2017: https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legal-updates/aban-on-unfair-lettings-fees-draft-tenant-fees-bill-2017-13691.aspx Energy Performance Certificates: https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legalupdates/government-consults-on-effectiveness-of-epcs-14585.aspx Japanese Knotweed: https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legal-updates/a-knottyproblem-strikes-again-14425.aspx Minimum Energy Efficiency Standards: https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legalupdates/change-proposed-mees-residential-property-13760.aspx https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legal-updates/mees-1-april-2018-is-just-thestart-13985.aspx https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legal-updates/registering-a-meesexemption-14569.aspx https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legal-updates/change-announced-to-howmees-affects-residential-landlords.aspx National Planning Policy Framework 2018: https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legalupdates/nppf-2018-introduction-13841.aspx 38 https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legal-updates/nppf-2018-starter-homes13874.aspx https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legal-updates/nppf-2018-upwardsextensions-13857.aspx https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legal-updates/nppf-2018-densities13861.aspx https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legal-updates/nppf-2018-high-level13864.aspx https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legal-updates/nppf-2018-housing-deliverytests-13852.aspx https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legal-updates/nppf-2018-common-ground13870.aspx https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legal-updates/nppf-2018-agent-of-change13867.aspx https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legal-updates/npff-2018-principle-changes13846.aspx https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legal-updates/nppf2-revised-nationalplanning-policy-guidance-14402.aspx https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legal-updates/nppf-viability-14422.aspx https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legal-updates/nppf-upward-extensions14408.aspx https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legal-updates/nppf-density-14405.aspx https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legal-updates/nppf-starter-homes14419.aspx https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legal-updates/joint-working-andstatements-of-common-ground-14451.aspx https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legal-updates/nppf-green-belt-14457.aspx https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legal-updates/nppf-the-agent-of-changeprinciple-14454.aspx https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legal-updates/nppf-heritage-assets14439.aspx https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legal-updates/nppf-climate-change14469.aspx The Planning (Scotland) Bill update: https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legalupdates/the-planning-scotland-bill-update-13718.aspx Twenty five year environment plan: https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legalupdates/a-green-future-13712.aspx Waste: https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legal-updates/imminent-changeswaste-rules-13950.aspx https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legal-updates/landowners-liability-foroccupiers-abandoned-waste-14166.aspx https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legal-updates/when-an-occupiers-wastebecomes-a-landowners-problem.aspx 39 5b. Organisations we have worked with In addition to donations to environmental focused organisations we also participated in: Organisation Activity/Outcome for organisation Camp Mohawk is a day centre in Wargrave, Colleagues in our Thames Valley office Berkshire for children with special needs. volunteered in October 2017. Citizens:MK is an alliance of community Our Milton Keynes office partnered with groups working together for a fairer Milton Summerfield Primary School to support the Keynes. Redways Campaign as part of a city-wide bid to improve the Redways cycle paths. This culminated in staff volunteering alongside pupils from the school to clear litter near the school. Computer Aid International charity takes In 2017/2018, 237 items were sent to India, used IT equipment and sends it to Africa and the UK for re-use and 209 items disadvantaged communities across the were recycled. world. The Legal Sustainability Alliance (LSA) is an Pioneer member in December 2008, inclusive movement of law firms and related signatory to the seven climate change organisations committed to working principles and submission provided to the collaboratively to take action to improve the 2018 Carbon Report. environmental sustainability of their operations and activities. RSPCA, Solent Branch runs the Stubbington Our Solent office made a £100 donation in Ark Animal Shelter and Rehoming Centre. March 2018. The UK Stakeholders for Sustainable Shoosmiths became a partner of UKSSD in Development (UKSSD) provides a space to July 2017. mobilise organisations so they can play their part to create a sustainable UK. The Wildlife Trusts: Bedfordshire, Our Northampton office selected the Wildlife Cambridgeshire and Northamptonshire has Trusts: Bedfordshire, Cambridgeshire and as its mission to conserve local wildlife, Northamptonshire as its office charity inspire others to take action for wildlife and partner in June 2017 raising and donating to inform people by offering advice and £731.85. sharing knowledge. WWF UK is a charity that aims to stop the Our offices supported the Earth Hour degradation of the planet’s natural campaign on Saturday 24 March 2018 by environment. highlighting the impact climate change has on our wildlife and planet and the relevance of the global SDG 13. We switched off unnecessary lights and equipment and we organised a staff awareness competition asking colleagues to pledges changes to their everyday work practices. 40 5c. Our 2017/2018 environment targets Appendix 2 of our annual CR Reports include key performance data from 2013/2014 onwards relating to carbon footprint, electricity and gas consumption, waste and water consumption. Key: √ – achieved IP – in progress X – not achieved Objective Demonstrating high standards of environmental responsibility in all our operations and minimising the environmental impacts associated with our activities, products and services. At sites where we control building energy use -11.28% decrease in electricity √ reduce electricity consumption by 3% in consumption at sites we controlled. 2017/2018 versus 2016/2017. Where we do (+23.15% increase in electricity not control the building liaise with the landlord consumption across the estate). to identify opportunities to reduce electricity consumption. At sites where we control building energy use -46.24% decrease in gas consumption at √ reduce gas consumption by 3% in 2017/2018 sites we controlled. versus 2016/2017. Where we do not control the building, liaise with the landlord to identify opportunities to reduce gas consumption. By the end of April 2018, transition 60% of our 36% of employees were agile working by X employees to agile working and convert 50% the end of April 2018 and 45% of our of our offices to support task working. offices had converted. Reduce printed page volumes by 5% -1.8% achieved which was lower than IP 2017/2018 versus 2016/2017. originally forecast due to the growth of the firm. However on a like for like basis, the printed sheet consumption per fte per month reduced from 1,633 to 1,429, a 12.5% reduction. Using an external organisation undertake a Completed with site audits undertaken at √ second party audit of two offices to assess our Edinburgh and Nottingham offices. legislative and best practice compliance, identifying opportunities for improvement. 5d. Our 2018/2019 environment targets Objective Demonstrating high standards of environmental responsibility in all our operations and minimising the environmental impacts associated with our activities, products and services. At sites where we control building energy use, reduce electricity consumption by 3% in 2018/2019 versus 2017/2018. Where we do not control the building, liaise with the landlord to identify opportunities to reduce electricity consumption. 41 At sites where we control building energy use, reduce gas consumption by 3% in 2018/2019 versus 2017/2018. Where we do not control the building, liaise with the landlord to identify opportunities to reduce gas consumption. Review potential to source electricity from renewable sources at sites under Shoosmiths’ control subject to pricing objectives being satisfied. By the end of April 2019, transition 80% of our employees to agile working and convert 60% of our offices to support task working. Using an external organisation, conduct a second party audit of two offices to assess legislative and best practice compliance, identifying opportunities for improvement. Trial introduction of office environmental champions to evaluate opportunities for local environmental attention and improvement including office recycling, single use plastic and client facing refreshments. 6. Anti-Corruption Principle Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. We are committed to the highest standards of business integrity. Shoosmiths is fully compliant with the UK Bribery Act 2010 and during the last 12 months has not been subject to any investigation, legal claim or criminal action. We have defined policies, processes, practices and control structures by which we ensure appropriate behaviour and consistent standards across the firm. Our compliance monitoring officers (within our Quality and Risk team) review compliance with those policies, systems and controls and report the results through our governance framework. The independent internal auditor who reports to the Chairman/Compliance Officer for Legal Practice (COLP) ensures that the second line of defence operates effectively. Our management systems are accredited to the quality management system ISO 9001:2015 (accredited since 1995) and the information security system ISO 27001:2013 (accredited since 2010) and are based on the health and safety management system OHSAS 18001:2007, the environmental management system ISO 14001:2015 and the guidance on social responsibility ISO 26001:2010. Business conduct We are committed to conducting our business with honesty and integrity and we expect all partners/directors and staff to maintain high standards. All colleagues are expected to behave as ambassadors of the firm and we have clear procedures in place for how to do this, which are communicated and reviewed on an annual basis. We take pride in being an ethical, transparent firm which acts with integrity at all times. We have a zerotolerance approach to bribery and corruption and comply with our other statutory obligations. 42 Our policies cover such issues as anti-money laundering, data protection/General Data Protection Regulation, information security, anti-bribery and corruption, gifts and hospitality, quality and risk management, Criminal Finances Act 2017 and supplier management procedures. All colleagues complete regular training on these issues to ensure they are fully aware of their obligations. This includes a requirement for all new starters to complete our anti-bribery course during induction plus anti-money laundering and data protection courses as well as a number of other courses. We have revised our Anti Money Laundering and Counter Terrorist Financing (CTF) policy to reflect the Money Laundering, Terrorist Financing and Transfer of Funds (Information on the Payer) Regulations 2017 Regulations. Our supplier code of conduct sets out our supplier expectations regarding under age and forced labour, freedom of association, discrimination, wages and benefits, working hours, healthy and safe working conditions, environment, business integrity, discipline and grievances. Whistleblowing We have a clear whistleblowing policy which sets out the process for reporting any concerns about wrongdoing or breaches of policies. This takes account of the requirements set out in chapter 10 of the SRA Code of Conduct and the requirements set out in the FCA’s Senior Management Arrangements, Systems and Controls (SYSC) 18, in relation to the Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998. Staff are encouraged to report suspected wrongdoing or dangers in relation to activities including criminal activity, miscarriages of justice, danger to health and safety, damage to environment, forced or compulsory labour or human trafficking, bribery, failure to comply with any professional obligations, financial fraud or mismanagement and any breach of the SRA Handbook, SRA Accounts Rules, FCA Handbook, the Law Society of Scotland Rules, or the Law Society of Northern Ireland rules, unauthorised disclosure of confidential information and deliberate concealment of any of the above matters. 6a. Helping our clients We have published a number of anti-corruption legal updates during 2018: Directors to get better protection from fraud: https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legalupdates/directors-to-get-better-protection-from-fraud-13904.aspx Estate agents under Competition and Markets Authority scrutiny for collusion: https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legal-updates/estate-agents-under-cmascrutiny-for-collusion-13881.aspx Overseas companies owning UK property will have to provide details of their owners: https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legal-updates/oversea-companies-ukproperty-provide-details-owners-13743.aspx https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legal-updates/register-of-overseascompanies-owning-uk-properties-14050.aspx https://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/legal-updates/publication-draft-regulatingentities-owning-land-uk-14552.aspx We also provide an e learning course on anti-corruption: 43 http://www.shoosmiths.co.uk/client-resources/anti-corruption-10052.aspx 6b. Our 2017/2018 anti-corruption targets As a firm of solicitors regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority, the Law Society of Scotland, the Law Society of Northern Ireland and the Financial Conduct Authority, not only must we comply with anti-bribery legislation but we must ensure that we have robust systems and controls in place to satisfy our regulators that we are compliant with our legal and regulatory obligations. Shoosmiths has a zero tolerance policy to bribery and corruption. All gifts and hospitality in excess of certain minimum levels must be reported to the Quality and Risk team in accordance with the gifts and hospitality policy and employees are reminded of their obligations. We continue to remind employees of these requirements. If there are concerns about a proposed gift or hospitality the Quality and Risk team will discuss these with the employee and the relevant partner. The new Quality and Risk intranet pages were launched during 2018, the policies and procedures are much easier to find and have greater visibility as a result. It is proposed to include a gift and hospitality reporting form in the near future. Key: √ – achieved IP – in progress X – not achieved Objective Committed to the highest standards of business integrity Raise internal awareness of anti-bribery and Launched in July 2018 with anti-bribery √ corruption by launching new intranet site. policies and assessment in a separate section. Raise internal awareness of all policies and All policies and procedures are now in √ procedures. alphabetical order on a separate and easily accessible page on the intranet site. 6c. Our 2018/2019 anti-corruption targets Objective Committed to the highest standards of business integrity Include a gift and hospitality reporting form on the Quality and Risk intranet page. Require all employees to undertake mandatory refresher anti bribery training. January 2019 44
