CSR REPORT 2019 Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements Contents Contents / Editorial Policy 1 Customer Satisfaction Diversity 49 Message from the President 3 and Product Safety 35 Supporting Womenʼs Achieving Top-Tier Quality Career Advancement 50 Special Feature and Reliability 36 Utilizing Employee Konica Minolta Social Innovation 5 Creating New Quality Value 38 Experiences Gained Outside the Company and Abroad 52 Corporate Social Responsibility Responsible Supply Chain 39 Employment of Persons at Konica Minolta 11 with Disabilities 53 CSR Procurement 40 Responding to the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Addressing Conflict Essential Requirements to Disclosures (TCFD) 13 Mineral Issues 41 Fulfill CSR 54 CSR Management 17 Data 58 Human Capital 43 CSR Targets and Results 21 Expert Opinion of Work-Style Reform 44 Konica Minoltaʼs CSR Report 62 Environment 25 Developing Human Capital 45 External Assurance 63 Green Products 28 Occupational Safety and Health 47 Overview of Green Factory Activities 30 Improving Employee Health 48 the Konica Minolta Group 64 Green Marketing 33 Editorial Policy Communication Tools The Konica Minolta CSR Report is published to inform all CSR Information stakeholders about the Groupʼs corporate social responsibility initiatives. Konica Minolta has identified the priority issues which have social significance and substantial impact on its business. The company sets targets for these issues and reports on specific initiatives and progress. This report has been prepared in accordance with the CSR Report (this publication) Environmental Report Global Reporting Initiative Standards: Core Option. Reporting on targets and Compiling information on To facilitate communication with stakeholders around specific initiatives for environmental activities from priority issues the website in booklet format the world, the report is published in two languages: Japanese in PDF and English. Report Boundary This report covers Konica Minolta, Inc. and its consolidated CSR (social/environmental activities) website subsidiaries. When data is given on a specific subset of companies, https://www.konicaminolta.com/about/csr the boundary is separately indicated. Reporting comprehensive information on Note: In this report, “Konica Minolta” refers to the Konica Minolta Group. Konica Minoltaʼs CSR activities Reporting Period In principle, the report covers activities from April 1, 2018 to March IR Information Shareholder Newsletter Integrated Report 31, 2019. Some sections may include information on earlier initiatives Securities Report (in Japanese) or more recent activities. In this report, “fiscal 2018” refers to the fiscal year that started April 1, 2018 and ended March 31, 2019. Publication Date The documents below are available for download at: August 2019 (Next report: scheduled for August 2020; previous https://www.konicaminolta.com/us-en/corporate/ report: August 2018) document-download.html Disclaimer ● Company Brochure ● CSR Report ●Environmental Report In addition to facts about past or present circumstances, this report contains ● Integrated Report ● Intellectual Property Report descriptions of the Groupʼs current plans and projections for the future. These descriptions are based on information that is currently available and have been The CSR report, which consists of the printed pamphlet and the deemed reasonable based on the Groupʼs current status. The Groupʼs actual web-based information, is prepared in accordance with the Global performance could differ from its predictions due to future changes in the Reporting Initiative Standards: Core Option. business environment. Note: Indicators that have been assured by KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. are marked with ★. Web GRI / ISO 26000 / United Nations Global Compact Content Indices Navigation All pages have category tabs to make navigation easier. Category Tabs Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Move to the pages Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements on the applicable report category. 1 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2019 Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements New Value for a Sustainable World Konica Minoltaʼs mission is “The Creation of New Value.” The company exists for this very purpose: to use creative ideas to deliver tangible new value in order to resolve the challenges faced by customers and the broader society. In order for companies to be sustainable in the times ahead, they will have to contribute to the resolution of social challenges while continuing to grow. In other words, they will be required to create value for both the company and society. In cooperation with its stakeholders around the globe, Konica Minolta aims to establish itself as a company that is vital to society by continuing to create new value that brings innovation to the world. Our Philosophy Our Vision The Creation of A global company that is vital to society New Value Possessing a mindset that drives us to best serve and improve the quality of society in all our activities, we are determined to become a company that is vital to the global society by providing excitement that 6 Values exceeds the expectations of all. Our 6 Values are the essence of An innovative company our innermost beliefs, our that is robust and inherited DNA, and define how constantly evolving we go about our business and We are committed to becoming act towards all our partners. an innovative company that They articulate what we stand for stands tall in difficult times with and direct our decision making. a solid and quality business base, ensuring we remain courageous to provide new value in the face of any challenge. Open and honest Passionate We are convinced that only by acting Being passionate, strong-willed and with integrity and communicating determined is essential to making with all our partners in an open and a meaningful contribution to our honest way can we create customersʼ businesses and society long-lasting partnerships of mutual as a whole. trust and true significance. Brand Proposition Inclusive and collaborative Customer-centric We believe that the power of We exist solely for our customers; inclusiveness and collaboration with It is our pledge to bring the ideas always thinking on their behalf, customers, partners and each other of customers and society to life undertaking challenges together is the best way to come up with through innovation and with them, and working tirelessly to game-changing ideas that provide bring them success and provide ultimate benefits. contribute to the creation of excitement that exceeds expectations a high-quality society. both now and in the future. Accountable Not only must we be individually Innovative and collectively responsible and Innovation is what drives us. We accountable for what we do, all our constantly strive to develop actions should contribute to the ground-breaking ideas that will form creation of a sustainable society and the basis of everything we do going Konica Minolta. forward, every step of the way. 2 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2019 Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements Contributing to the Evolution of Society by Transforming into a Digital Company with Insight into Implicit Challenges Becoming a Leader in a Time of Transformation Creating New Value Under the Concept of Since our companyʼs management integration in 2003, “B to B to P for P” Konica Minolta has conducted business under the philosoKonica Minolta is a B-to-B enterprise serving some two phy, “The Creation of New Value.” I view this concept as the million companies worldwide. But the value we provide is creation of economic value through business activities, actually intended for the professionals working on the front while simultaneously creating social value by providing lines in those companies. Our immediate goal is to raise the innovative solutions that help solve the myriad challenges productivity and quality of operations by helping revoluour world is facing. tionize the workflow of professionals working in manufacWith the massive advancement of digital technology, turing, medicine, nursing, and other professional settings. including AI, robotics, and IoT, the world has entered a time The result, however, contributes to the richness of human of great transformation. The business landscape is also life for consumers and end users. This is the social value that changing drastically and at an unprecedented pace, we create, the value that leads to evolution of society. Our demanding innovation in all industries. Transformative Care Support Solutions (→P. 6), for example, reduce the times such as these are a major opportunity for Konica workload of staff members at nursing care facilities, allowMinolta. That is why we have our sights set on becoming a ing them to concentrate on nursing care service, which in company that provides new value to the world by spearturn helps improve their patientsʼ quality of life. heading innovations, instead of following in the wake of Backcasting is key to creating this kind of business. changes in the competitive environment. First, we identify latent issues in various segments of With our current Medium Term Business Plan, society and envision the kind of world we want to see 10 “SHINKA 2019,” we have set the goal of transforming into “a and 20 years down the road. Then, we work backwards to digital company that provides solutions with insight into determine what needs to be done. The United Nationʼs implicit challenges.” We are determined to contribute to Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are also important the evolution of society by working with our customers to challenges for our company to consider. Envisioning a create solutions not only to the challenges that are already better world, the Konica Minolta Group is working to obvious, but also to the more latent ones. We believe that create value that will help achieve these goals by the target this type of approach will allow businesses to be sustainable year, 2030. into the future. 3 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2019 Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements Concept of B to B to P for P B to B to P for P Working Professionals ● Business people Craftsmanship professionals Person Konica Client ● Supports ● Printing professionals Richness ● End users Minolta workflow companies of life ● Designers (product planning) ● Consumers transformation ● Patients ● Nursing care workers (nurses, child care workers) ● Physicians and technicians Pursuing “Carbon Minus” Status by Applying individuals thrive, and to establish systems of innovation, in Backcasting to Global Environmental Challenges a two-pronged approach to driving greater innovation. Addressing climate change is a challenge shared by all of To further strengthen the skills and abilities of Konica humanity. We recognize that a companyʼs environmental Minolta Group employees, we are promoting diversity, efforts affect its corporate competitiveness. For example, reforming work styles, investing heavily in young employreducing energy and resource usage not only reduces ees, and working on health and wellness initiatives. In April environmental impact, it also translates into cost savings. 2019, we changed the name of the Corporate Diversity As a guideline to tackle global environmental issues Office to the Corporate Diversity & Inclusion Office. We feel head on, we established the Eco Vision 2050, our long-term that this change is in line with our efforts to promote environmental vision, which we conceived by backcasting inclusion and our belief that the diversity of our employees from 2050. As part of that vision, we set the goal of achievis one of our greatest strengths. We are also considering the ing “Carbon Minus” status. This means that in addition to introduction of a personnel system that rewards employees reducing Konica Minoltaʼs own CO2 emissions, we intend to who go above and beyond to generate innovation. deliver carbon reductions above and beyond Konica MinolOne way we are driving innovation as an organization taʼs own emissions̶by sharing our accumulated environis through our five Business Innovation Centers (BICs), mental technologies and expertise, and the knowledge which are located across the globe. Our BICs serve as obtained through our endeavors with business partners organizations dedicated to the creation of new businesses. and customers to help them reduce their CO2 emissions. We have also established open R&D sites in the cities of Konica Minolta is also a signatory to and participates in Hachioji and Takatsuki in Japan, and developed a system international initiatives to address environmental issues. In that enables collaboration with partner companies in a wide July 2018, we declared our support for the final recommenrange of fields. dations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial I believe that my most important mission as chief Disclosures (TCFD). In January 2019, we joined RE100, executive is to continually drive innovation by leveraging through which we will contribute to the achievement of a the strengths of Konica Minolta employees. I will continue decarbonized society with the goal of sourcing 100% of to find new ways to drive “The Creation of New Value” in Konica Minoltaʼs electricity consumption from renewable collaboration with Konica Minolta Group employees sources by 2050. around the world while doing my utmost to strengthen our management foundation from an ESG perspective. Human Capital: The Source of Our Ability to Create New Value Konica Minoltaʼs purpose is to continue creating new value that helps resolve the challenges our world faces. The source of that ability is the approximately 40,000 people working at the Konica Minolta Group worldwide. After all, the innovation that drives the creation of value is generated by none other than our employees, as they work together with customers Shoei Yamana and take action. That is why Konica Minolta is working to President and CEO strengthen the abilities of its employees, ensuring that Konica Minolta, Inc. 4 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2019 Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements Special Feature Konica Minolta Social Innovation: Solving the Challenges Facing the World The recent worldwide emergence of social concerns such as climate change, resources and energy, a declining birthrate, and an aging population has spurred calls for innovation that can help solve these issues. Konica Minolta is integrating the strengths A company that continues to developed in its business over the decades with the create new value to SHINKA (evolve) latest digital technologies to provide high value-added business and human societies products and services to different types of customers in various industries. By doing so, Konica Minolta aspires to contribute to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) while also helping business and human societies to evolve. Contribute to achieving the SDGs Providing high value-added Commercial and services to different types of industrial customers in various industries printing Value provision Productivity Nursing care improvement Mobile object Prediction and Operation forecasting efficiency enhancement support One Konica Minolta DecisionCreativity making improvement support Medical Office Optimization Manufacturing Retail and distribution Business Domains Industrial Business Office Business Our Philosophy The Creation of New Value Healthcare Professional Business Print Business 5 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2019 Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements CASE Care Support Solutions 01 Providing Nursing Care Solutions to Address the Issues of a Super-Aged Society Related SDGs Transforming Nursing Care Staff Workflow and determine the best response after grasping the situation Helping to Eliminate Chronic Nursing Care Staff and enables information sharing among staff in real time, Shortages greatly improving the efficiency of work. One facility where With the number of people needing nursing care in Japan this solution was introduced reported an average efficiency increasing in recent years, the shortage of care workers has improvement of 30% for nursing care staff. The extra time become a social issue. To address the situation, Konica saved can now be used to enhance resident self-sufficiency, Minolta developed and offers Care Support Solutions that such as through rehabilitation assistance, and for education transform nursing care workflows. and training for nursing staff. This, in turn, enables provision This solution detects certain resident behaviors using of higher quality care, which has improved the satisfaction near-infrared cameras installed on the ceiling along with of residents and their families as well as nursing staff and sensors that detect movement, and then notifies nursing facility administrators. care staff through their smartphones. It helps the staff to Care Support Solutions Transformation of Expected Outcomes Nursing Staff Workflow System ● Room visiting flow Higher satisfaction Access point ● Night round flow of residents Behavior analysis ● Fall response flow receiving care sensor • Residents receive ● Record inputting flow excellent nursing ● Information sharing flow care • Residentsʼ families ● Independence enhancement flow are reassured System control server Resident Smartphone Information Higher satisfaction sharing Efficiency of nursing care room improvement of administrators Writing around 30% • Lower staff turnover nursing records • Differentiation from Main Functions other facilities Preparing 1 Resident video, to check the situation before taking action 4 Creates on-the-spot care records for room visits 5 Lower social 2 Safety confirmation Instant and reliable based on awareness of security costs for information sharing national and local tiny chest movements Nursing care governments; local community 3 6 Records evidence Remote microphone in cases of falling encourages resident revitalization or toppling independence 6 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2019 Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements CASE Care Support Solutions 01 Moving toward Greater Use of IT in Nursing Care Settings Pioneering the Future of Nursing Care in Japan through Diverse Partnerships Masanori Miura President and Representative Director Konica Minolta QOL Solutions, Inc. Dispatching Care Directors to Nursing Care Gathering Colleagues Who Share Our Facilities to Propose Workflow Improvements Philosophy and Strategy and Recommending Care workers often need further training to master the Use of IT in the Nursing Care Industry use of IT devices on the job. This is the key to transformThe Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare ing the frontlines of nursing care using IoT, and also the estimates that in 2025, there will be a shortage of 340,000 reason Konica Minolta developed Care Support Solutions. nursing care staff members. This shortage is a social issue that Accordingly, we dispatch Care Directors to nursing care Japan cannot afford to put off addressing. At this rate, supply facilities to provide on-site training in system use. and demand will go out of balance, and we could end up with Care Directors also analyze data accumulated by the a society where people cannot receive adequate nursing care. system to produce various reports and propose workflow Out of awareness of this problem, Konica Minolta started improvements. For instance, our data analysis showed that a social business collaborative effort̶the Care Philosophy night rounds actually disturb residentsʼ sleep. So, we tested Partners Conference (CPPC)̶with care providers, IT service what would happen if night rounds were stopped. The companies specialized in nursing care, and others. Around 50 number of times residents got out of bed decreased and companies have joined so far. Among them, Konica Minolta they got better sleep as a result. Fewer times getting out of has built especially strong collaborative relationships with bed also lowers the risk of falls. Moreover, the nursing staffʼs Welmo, Inc.,*1 BI Brid Co., Ltd.,*2 and Zenkoukai.*3 The thing workload was also decreased by reducing the number of that each company has in common is a shared philosophy and times they visit rooms at night. strategy to “achieve a world of harmonious co-existence that Making use of data in this way should also allow the increases quality of life in the form of greater independence care needed by individual residents to be predicted in the for seniors and greater job satisfaction for caregivers.” While future, changing the way the nursing staff works and they each have a high degree of specialization, the companies increasing the quality of care. do not take an individual-company approach but rather leverage their individual strengths combined, sharing the same philosophy and strategy, in an effort to solve issues faced Test Result of Stopping Night Rounds by the nursing care industry. (1) Reduction in nursing staffʼs (2) Increase in residentsʼ Additionally, Konica Minolta carries out demonstration workload at night (index when quality of life (sleep) due to testing in collaboration with universities and business operathe number of nighttime room (1) (index when number of tors to improve frontline efficiency in nursing care. We hope to visits before test is 100) times getting out of bed use the results to make recommendations to the Council on before test is 100) Investments for the Future*4 regarding improvements to 100 100 staffing standards for nursing care facilities based on use of IT. 80 *1 Welmo, Inc.: Provides a regional care information platform to professionals. It has also developed an AI system to support the production of care plans requiring medical and nursing knowledge. *2 BI Brid Co., Ltd.: Operates an IT help desk/support business specializing in 33 the nursing care, welfare, and medical fields, an IT consulting business, and a business supporting product development for the nursing care field. *3 Social Welfare Corporation Zenkoukai: Business includes operation of special nursing homes and group homes for people with dementia. Actively Before test After test Before test After test adopts various kinds of technology with the aim of visualizing operations and practicing scientific nursing care. *4 Council on Investments for the Future: A council, chaired by Japanʼs Prime Minister, that convenes with the purpose of accelerating growth strategies and structural reform aimed at expanding investment in future economic growth fields. 7 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2019 Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements CASE Care Support Solutions 01 Coverage Including the Home Care/Nursing Solving Social Issues with Corporate Social Collaboration Field under the Concept of “Connected Care” We believe that behavioral record data on seniors can be utilized not only in nursing care facilities but also in home care and preventive care. In home care, for example, we think that sensible care plans can be made as much as possible without changing peopleʼs lifestyles by gathering and analyzing data on the behavioral patterns not only of Harmonious co-existence for seniors and caregivers seniors but also their families. Our Care Support Solutions are based primarily on acquisition of data in bedrooms, but in the future, we plan to provide new value by sharing, interconnecting, and analyzing data held by companies that have joined CPPC. I Operations support through collaboration between IT and people call this “connected care.” The goal is to work with various Universities Credit unions stakeholders to create a mechanism that allows the same Professional City banks level of care to be received at home as in a facility. training schools Schools Banks In preparation for such an era of scientific nursing care, Local governments Builders Systems Real estate integrators we are developing an educational program using our Care Local companies/governments Support Solutions in nursing care schools. By creating New partners opportunities for people hoping to go into nursing care to be exposed to IT, we intend to train care workers who have a strong command of IT. Corporate social collaboration . C KO IN N IC A M NS, INOLTA QOL SOLUTIO Voice of a Corporate Social Collaborator Using IT to Co-create a Standard of Nursing Care Kouhei Takeshita President, BI Brid Co., Ltd. The introduction of IT in nursing care facilities is still in system providers about making products that will be the early phases. It is still the common practice to write useful in nursing care settings and also gives advice out care records on paper by hand, and being up to and support to care staff so that they can make the oneʼs neck with such production of records is a most of those products. burden. In some cases, that is the reason people leave I hope that Konica Minolta will produce best their jobs. The truth of the matter is that care staff practices in IT adoption in nursing care settings across members in many frontline care settings do not feel the country through Care Support Solutions. I hope that the need to adopt IT and are unfamiliar with computit will become the standard for nursing care operation. ers. The IT system provider, on the other hand, has The issues faced on the frontlines of nursing care hardly any products that match the IT skills of users, as are a problem that will impact the future of this it does not know the nursing care industry or frontline country ̶ the future of each of us. I believe this is a needs. This unfortunately results in many cases where matter that can no longer be addressed by individual IT has been introduced but then goes unused. companies; it must be tackled by lots of companies In other words, just introducing IT is not enough. It working together. I hope to take advantage of this is only when IT is used properly that it leads to improved corporate social collaboration with Konica Minolta to efficiency. Thus, it cannot be achieved without suitable leverage IT to change the future of nursing care. support for users. That is why BI Brid gives advice to 8 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2019 Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements CASE Workplace Hub 02 Supporting Corporate Work-Style Reform All business sites nowadays have a rising need to utilize digital innovation to generate greater efficiency and productivity. However, many small and medium-size enterprises face challenges in making use of IT due to issues such as a shortage of IT personnel and administrative burdens. Konica Minoltaʼs Workplace Hub, which is being rolled out globally after its launch in Europe and the US in fiscal 2018, is an all-in-one IT service package that is customizable to corporate clientsʼ business challenges. It combines IT infrastructure/services, multi-functional peripherals (MFPs), and maintenance/management. Workplace Hub provides an IT environment safeguarded by world-class security, setting clients free from the massive burden of IT management work and thereby enabling them to focus on higher productivity and more creative work. Workplace Hub, a workflow transformer CASE Precision Medicine 03 Supporting Drug Discovery as Well as Accurate and Efficient Cancer Diagnosis The significant side effects and ballooning costs of cancer treatment have become social issues. Precision medicine, in which medications are chosen for patients who have been grouped according to their physiological characteristics as analyzed based on genes and proteins, is gaining attention as a solution. Konica Minolta makes accurate and efficient cancer diagnosis a reality by combining its original technology for making visible specific proteins such as those found in cancer cells with technologies of two Konica Minolta Group companies in the US. In July 2018, Konica Minolta established Konica Minolta Precision Medicine Japan, Inc., a new company that will provide services in the field of precision medicine in Japan. The new company will move forward with the full-scale provision of services to pharmaceutical companies, academia, and medical institutions. Original technology differentiates cancer cells CASE Gas Monitoring Solution 04 Contributing to Safety and Security as Well as Environmental Performance by Making Gas Leaks Visible In recent years, rising risks due to deterioration of plants in Japan, such as gas leakage accidents and fires, have become an issue. At the same time, there are fewer skilled maintenance personnel as the workforce is shrinking due to a declining birthrate and aging population. This has created a need for regular monitoring not dependent on staff and a need to ensure the safety of restoration work. Konica Minolta provides a solution that enables early discovery and handling of abnormalities via continuous plant monitoring. Using optical and image processing technology to make visible the location and concentration of gas leaks makes appropriate maintenance possible without skilled maintenance personnel. Additionally, in North America, Konica Minolta is planning to roll this solution out to petroleum and natural gas mining facilities as well to facilities seeking to reduce leaks of greenhouse gases. This solution will also contribute to a more sustainable world by Gas monitoring solution makes gas leaks helping to improve the workflow of data management required by laws and regulations. visible 9 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2019 Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements CASE Remote Healthcare Using Portable Medical Devices 05 Addressing Medical Challenges in Emerging Countries with Remote Healthcare In Bangladesh, lifestyle-related diseases are skyrocketing, and quickly responding to patient needs is a critical issue in the healthcare field. In rural areas, where 60% and more of the population lives, there is a shortage of medical facilities, equipment, and doctors. In order to receive medical treatment, patients must travel considerable distances to urban areas. To address this challenge, Konica Minolta devised a remote diagnostic system that allows a rural clinic to take patient X-rays using portable equipment and upload the imaging data to the cloud, allowing doctors in the city to view the X-rays and make the appropriate diagnosis. After conducting a diagnostic pilot in 2017, a paid medical examination trial was begun in September 2018 in the capital of Dacca and the surrounding region, in a project adopted by the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA). Going forward, Konica X-ray exam using mobile imaging Minolta will increase the number of examination sites and also work to reduce the cost of equipment diagnostic services by analyzing collected data and introducing AI-based screening. CASE Digital Inkjet Printer AccurioJet KM-1 06 Using Digital Technology to Reduce the Environmental Impact of Commercial Printing Rising environmental awareness is driving demands for the field of commercial and industrial printing to break away from conventional methods where large amounts are printed and surplus is discarded. In the world of marketing, meanwhile, labels and packages for each event are being produced in small lots, and product/marketing strategies targeting individual consumers, such as including specific peopleʼs names, is gaining ground. Konica Minoltaʼs digital inkjet printer AccurioJet KM-1 produces high image quality comparable to that of conventional offset printing and can handle a wide range of printing papers. It enables production of printed matter in just the quantity needed, at the time needed, to suit the customerʼs exact needs. This, in turn, reduces environmental impact by minimizing waste. This solution also helps to reduce the labor-hours needed in the printing process due to its user-friendly operability, even for unskilled workers. Digital inkjet printer AccurioJet KM-1 CASE WoundAide Automatic Wound Measurement System for Medical Institutions 07 Improving Workflow in Medical Settings Konica Minolta operates Business Innovation Centers (BICs) in the five major regions of the world―Japan, Asia Pacific, China, Europe, and North America―with the goal of generating new thinking and creating innovative businesses. The BICs are carrying out about 100 projects, in which they collaborate with universities and venture firms and employ diverse innovative perspectives. In 2018, based on the work of the BICs, BIC Asia Pacific commercialized WoundAide, an automatic wound measurement system for medical institutions, and began marketing it in Singapore. This system enables instantaneous measurement of wounds, which is conventionally done by hand, through diagnostic imaging, as well as digitization of the results. This helps to improve the workflow of clinicians and nurses. Moreover, WoundAide Automatic measurement using WoundAide can be expected to improve patientsʼ quality of life because it assists with more appropriate wound monitoring and treatment by enabling accurate and consistent measurement. 10 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2019 Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements Message from the Sustainability Officer Leveraging Sustainability Concepts to Create Innovation Takenori Takahashi Group Executive and General Manager, Corporate Sustainability Division Konica Minolta, Inc. Growing Business While Contributing sustainable society that continues to advance through innovato the Creation of a Sustainable Society tion, together with our customers. We continue to create new We aspire to be a digital company that provides solutions value for the environment and human society and take up with insight into implicit challenges. This means that we will the challenge of innovation that drives business growth. become a company that contributes to the realization of a Pursuing a sustainable society also leads to enhanced sustainability for companies. Our sustainability strategy is based on this kind of awareness. If society breaks down due Our Sustainability Strategy to environmental destruction, it will affect the economy, as well. I am convinced that resolving environmental and social issues will create growth opportunities for Konica Minolta. Economic Econturbulence omy Konica Minolta “G” Integrating Management Strategy Solving social issues with Environmental and Social Management Social unrest Society and global “S” environmental issues The environment and society are closely linked in many ways. An integrated approach, rather than thinking of them as separate entities, is crucial. Based on this approach, in April Global 2018 we consolidated the departments responsible for our environmental Environment environmental and social performance, forming the Corpodestruction “E” rate Sustainability Division, which also includes the strategic planning function. This is intended to strengthen integrated management in tandem with business management. Earning positive recognition from the global community In fiscal 2019, we will devise a sustainability strategy and attracting talented employees and capital linked to our next management plan. We look ahead to our vision for the environment and society in 2030 and beyond, Sustainable growth and then backcast from there to determine what we should do now and where to set the significant milestones. 11 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2019 Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements Evolving as a Digital Company That Provides produced by our business activities by 2050, in cooperation Solutions with Insight into Implicit Challenges with stakeholders. The Corporate Sustainability Division works closely togethTo achieve our “Carbon Minus” target, we have er and collaborates with business divisions to align our pursued activities̶together with stakeholders, including sustainability strategy with our business. customers, business partners̶designed to raise both We believe that social innovation is one of our material environmental value and corporate value, based on our issues, and we have created Care Support Solutions, WorkMedium-Term Environmental Plan. At present, we are place Hub and gas monitoring solutions, which utilize promoting our Environmental Digital Platform, which aims Konica Minoltaʼs core technologies and innovation to help to digitize the environmental expertise we have offered on resolve social issues (→P. 5). We must resolve environmenan individual basis thus far, to make even more substantial tal and social issues with an eye on the future based on contributions to the environment. By having more stakebusiness strategies in order to continue contributing to a holders participate in this platform and accumulating more sustainable society and grow sustainably as a company. To technology and expertise for mutual use, we think we can this end, the related divisions will collaborate with divisions help achieve significant reductions in societyʼs overall working on technology strategies, management planning environmental impact. and sustainability promotion to discuss issues and policies, Konica Minolta has joined the Task Force on Climateand establish mediumand long-term management plans related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and RE100, internafrom 2020. tional recommendations and initiatives related to climate change and energy (→P. 16). We have to be careful to secure our procurement of energy and raw materials in consideration of impact on climate change, and we believe Comprehensively Addressing the Worldʼs that it is important to disclose this information to investors Environmental Issues and Sharing Joy and other stakeholders. For example, we think that a with Our Stakeholders society that uses all renewable energy will arrive by 2050, or The efforts of one company alone are not enough to create even as early as 2030. Operating a business that is aligned a sustainable society. We believe that opening up the core to this kind of society is a prerequisite for sustainable technology and expertise that Konica Minolta has built up growth. Moreover, if Konica Minolta can contribute to the and allowing customers, business partners and local resolution of these social issues by utilizing its technologies in communities to use it will be meaningful in our efforts to fields such as materials, imaging, and edge IoT, it will create help resolve environmental, energy and other global business opportunities. The mediumand long-term social issues. business plan that we are currently considering clarifies the Konica Minolta has established its Eco Vision 2050, a risks and financial impact of climate change as well as long-term environmental vision looking ahead to 2050, and countermeasures, and we will disclose these in an integratset a “Carbon Minus” target. This is a commitment to ed report. achieve a CO2 reduction effect that exceeds CO2 emissions I am confident that incorporating a sustainability perspective in management and business will create a positive cycle for the company overall. Konica Minolta Creating Value by Integrating Business creates innovation as a digital company that provides and Sustainability solutions with insight into implicit challenges and helps Creating economic to create a sustainable society. Creating social value value Creating businesses that help resolve environmental and social issues Mediumand long-term management plan Business strategy Technology Sustainability strategy strategy 12 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2019 Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements Responding to the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) The Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures operations and actively disclosing information to investors (TCFD), established by the G20 Financial Stability Board and a wide range of other stakeholders is essential for a (FSB), released its final report, entitled “Recommendations company capable of sustainable growth. Being one of the of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures,” supporters of the TCFD, Konica Minolta agreed to support in June 2017. the final report. As its first action based on the recommenKonica Minolta believes that accurately assessing the dations, Konica Minolta will begin using the TCFDʼs framerisks and opportunities related to climate in its business work when disclosing its climate change initiatives. Items Description of activities Point of reference Konica Minolta recognizes that global warming is a serious risk for companies and, as a Eco Vision 2050 (P. 25) result, in 2008 the Board of Directors approved Eco Vision 2050, the companyʼs Medium-Term long-term environmental vision. This plan sets the ambitious target of reducing CO2 Environmental Plan 2019 emissions throughout the product lifecycle by 80% by 2050, compared to fiscal 2005 (PP. 26–27) levels. Konica Minolta views climate change as an opportunity, and with this approach, Corporate Governance in 2017 the company made a new commitment to becoming “Carbon Minus,” in other (P. 54) words helping to reduce societyʼs overall CO2 emissions through its business activities. Environmental Corporate management Konica Minolta is pursuing programs across its supply chain to achieve this goal. Governance (Environmental Report) The President and CEO, who has the ultimate responsibility for as well as authority over climate change issues, appoints the Director of Environmental Management from among the executive officers. The Director of Environmental Management prepares the Medium-Term Environmental Plan, which is approved by the Board of Directors as the companyʼs overall management plan. The Director of Environmental Management reports to the President every month on the progress made in pursuing environmental management. The President and CEO reports to the Board of Directors on operations every month. As climate change becomes more apparent, it will create social problems and economic Participation in impacts, resulting in both risks and opportunities for Konica Minoltaʼs business. International Initiatives In the manufacturing industry in particular, it will be essential over the long term to (P. 16) find alternatives for fossil resources, pursue the optimal energy efficiency for producCSR Targets and Results tion and products, and take mitigation and adaptation initiatives to fight climate (PP. 21–22) change. In the short and medium terms, Konica Minolta anticipates rising prices for Eco Vision 2050 (P. 25) fossil resources, demand for energy savings, interruptions in the supply chain due to Medium-Term weather abnormalities, and a shift to a paperless system in industry. If steps are not Environmental Plan 2019 taken to address these challenges, it will lead to substantial capital investments and (PP. 26–27) higher costs, and a loss of business opportunities. This is why Konica Minolta is transforming itself into a digital company that provides solutions with insight into implicit challenges, creating solutions that help to solve social issues by actively incorporating cutting-edge technology into products and integrating them with digital input and output technology, which is Konica Minoltaʼs strength. The Strategy company is also working to address environmental issues such as climate change, the depletion of resources, and waste, all as integral parts of its mediumand long-term business strategy. Companies in the manufacturing industry can reduce their environmental impact by decreasing production volumes, transport, inventory and waste. Konica Minolta is helping to resolve these issues, for example, by providing on-demand equipment for industrial printing for packages, labels and textiles. To reduce the consumption of paper in offices, Konica Minolta provides digital workplace solutions that foster the shift to a paperless system while improving the efficiency of operational flows. Addressing the problem of the massive amount of energy data centers use to analyze big data, Konica Minoltaʼs edge-computing technology helps minimize energy consumption by enabling as much data analysis as possible to be done on-site. In all these ways and more, Konica Minolta is integrating business growth with its efforts to redress environmental issues and views environmental management as a key business strategy (refer to page 15 for details on risks and opportunities). 13 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2019 Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements Items Description of activities Point of reference Konica Minolta views environmental risk, including climate change, as one of its CSR Targets and Results management risks. These risks are addressed by the Risk Management Committee, (PP. 21–22) chaired by an executive officer appointed by the Board of Directors. Eco Vision 2050 (P. 25) Risk This Committee conducts risk assessment on corporate activities, and confirms Medium-Term Management the risks thus identified as well as countermeasures, while also checking that the risk Environmental Plan 2019 management system is functioning effectively and making changes as necessary. The (PP. 26–27) Risk Management Committee regularly reports to the Audit Committee, which consists Corporate Governance of directors who are not also executive officers. (P. 54) Konica Minolta has established its Eco Vision 2050, which aims to reduce CO2 emissions CSR Targets and Results over the product lifecycle and bring carbon emissions to negative levels, as its metric for (PP. 21–22) managing the risks and opportunities posed by climate change. Results are reported Eco Vision 2050 (P. 25) every year. Medium-Term The goal for reducing CO2 emissions across the product lifecycle includes all of Environmental Plan Scopes 1 and 2 (CO2 emissions generated during the production stage and the sales 2019 (PP. 26–27) and service stage) and the main components of Scope 3 (CO2 emissions generated Green Products during the procurement stage, transportation and distribution stage, and product use (PP. 28–29) stage). In the long term, Konica Minolta aims to reduce CO2 emissions by 60% by 2030 Green Factory Activities and by 80% by 2050, and in the short term, the company aims to cut emissions by 50% (PP. 30–32) by 2019, all compared to fiscal 2005 levels. In fiscal 2018, emissions were down 49.6% Environmental Data (refer to the graph below for the targets and results). Summary (PP. 58–59) The Medium-Term Environmental Plan, which designates 2019 as the target year, sets the target for the companyʼs Green Factory activities of reducing CO2 emissions in the production stage by 19,000 tons and also sets cost-cutting targets. In fiscal 2018, Metrics and Konica Minolta succeeded in reducing CO2 by 26,500 tons and also achieved its Targets cost-cutting targets. In its Green Products initiative, Konica Minolta has set targets of reducing CO2 emissions in the product use stage by 17,200 tons in fiscal 2019 and generating 770 billion yen in sales of Certified Sustainable Green Products. In fiscal 2018, Konica Minolta reduced CO2 by 15,000 tons and recorded sales of Sustainable Green Products amounting to 778.5 billion yen. “Carbon Minus” refers to Konica Minoltaʼs commitment that its business will have a net minus impact on the overall CO2 emissions of society. If the company can reduce its CO2 emissions throughout the product lifecycle by 80% by 2050, the remaining 20% will be approximately 400,000 tons. Accordingly, the companyʼs Carbon Minus goal is to reduce the CO2 emissions of society by at least 400,000 tons by 2050. There are limits to what a single company can do on its own to achieve Carbon Minus status, so Konica Minolta is expanding its activities to include business partners and customers, with the aim of more broadly reducing CO2 emissions. Konica Minolta expects this effort not only to boost its contributions to the environment across the entire supply chain, but also to reduce costs and increase sales. CO2 Emissions Reduction and Carbon Minus Targets The emissions amount is estimated for cases in which environmental Medium-Term Science 2,067 conservation activities did not Environmental Based Eco Vision thousand tons start in fiscal 2017. Plan 2019 Targets (SBT) 2050 Procurement Production 50％ 60％ 80％ reduction reduction reduction Business Distribution activities 1,104 1,125 Sales and 1,081 1,046 1,038 1,041 CO2 emissions throughout service product lifecycle Product use 1,033 2005 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2030 2050 Activities to reduce CO2 emissions from customers, suppliers, and society Actual Targets 14 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2019 Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements Konica Minoltaʼs Climate-Related Risks create opportunities by taking action sooner. For example, and Opportunities Konica Minoltaʼs proprietary IoT technology, such as edge The Paris Agreement provides a framework for the world to computing, which does not require large-capacity servers, move more quickly and ambitiously to build a low-carbon goes far in reducing energy load and reducing greenhouse global society. At the same time, there are concerns that the gas emissions. Environmental issues could be an opportunineeded changes will not happen fast enough and climate ty for higher demand for this kind of technology and stronger change will have a harsh impact on the world. sales. As part of its ongoing energy conservation activities, If Konica Minolta does not take measures to address Konica Minolta not only reduces costs at its own factories, climate change, it faces a risk of higher costs and loss of but also strives to create new business initiatives by collabobusiness opportunities. Konica Minolta recognizes that it can rating with suppliers and business partners. Climate-related Risks and Opportunities along the Supply Chain Risks Opportunities Impact on Impact on Impact on product procurement direct operations and service demand Higher procurement and Increase in product development costs manufacturing costs ● New regulations on product energy efficiency ● Higher prices for fossil resources and the market in line with measures to and fossil fuels mitigate impact of climate change ● Response to emissions regulations and laws in ● Decline in product competitiveness due to line with measures to mitigate impact of unsustainable use of resources and climate change non-reusable design ● Temporary suspension of production due to restrictions on electric power supply Transition risks and opportunities Reduction in procurement and Higher sales manufacturing costs ● Edge computing, which does not require ● Manufacturing and supply chain a data center development that achieves sustainable use ● Digital workplace to support a paperless society of energy and resources ● Technology for upgrading recycled plastics ● Digital on-demand printing Lower revenue due to a reduction in Higher sales production capacity ● IoT solutions to improve farm employeesʼ Physical risks ● Supply chain interruptions following and food productivity large-scale natural disasters opportunities ● Depletion of water resources and restrictions on water intake 15 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2019 Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements Participation in International Initiatives Participation in RE100, Which Aims to Run Businesses with 100% Renewable Energy In January 2019, Konica Minolta joined RE100, 15%*1 of power usage, and beginning in a global leadership initiative that brings togethJanuary 2019, it also switched the source of the er businesses committed to sourcing 100% remaining power to power purchased with renewable energy for their operations. green power certificates.*2 As a result, the Konica Minolta aims to procure 100% of manufacturing site now sources 100% of its the power used in its own business activities energy from renewable sources. from renewable energy sources by 2050. By Konica Minolta will adopt the optimal doing so, Konica Minolta will accelerate its method for each world region, starting with efforts to achieve Eco Vision 2050 while also manufacturing sites such as the aforemenhelping to reduce global CO2 emissions by tioned site in China, in order to strengthen its expanding the use of renewable energy. efforts to expand energy procurement from At Konica Minolta Business Technologies renewable sources. (Dongguan) Co., Ltd., one of Konica Minoltaʼs *1 Achievements from March 2018 to February 2019 MFP production sites in China, 100% of the *2 I-REC certification that can be used domestically in China energy consumed has come from renewable (International Renewable Energy Certificate) energy sources since 2019. In November 2017, the company installed a solar power generating system (25,000 m2 footprint, 1.8 MW power generating capacity), accounting for about Konica Minolta Business Technologies Solar power panels installed (Dongguan) Co., Ltd. on the roof Medium-Term Goals for CO2 Reductions Approved by SBT Initiative When formulating the Medium-Term Environmental Plan 2019, Konica Minolta backcasted from Eco Vision 2050 to set a medium-term goal for the year 2030, to reduce CO2 emissions by 60% from fiscal 2005 levels. The goal was approved by the international SBT Initiative* as a target with a scientific basis. *SBT Initiative: Jointly established in 2015 by the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), the United Nations Global Compact, the World Resource Institute (WRI), and the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF). The SBT Initiativeʼs aim is to promote the achievement of science-based targets (SBTs) for greenhouse gas emissions reduction, in order to keep the increase in global average temperature to well below 2 C above pre-industrial levels. 16 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2019 Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements CSR Management Basic Approach Konica Minolta aims to establish itself as an innovative company that is constantly evolving. Under its management CSR-Related Principles, Charters, and Norms philosophy, “The Creation of New Value,” Konica Minolta That Konica Minolta Observes works to remain vital to society. This is why the Group strives ● Universal Declaration of Human Rights to contribute to the resolution of global challenges by ● Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) creating value that improves the quality of society through its ● United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and business endeavors. Human Rights Konica Minolta practices CSR, guided by its manage● OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises ment philosophy and vision, which are based on the Konica ● ISO 26000 Minolta Group Charter of Corporate Behavior. The Konica ● The Japan Business Federationʼs Charter of Minolta Group Guidance for the Charter of Corporate Corporate Behavior Behavior is shared globally and illustrates desirable behavior in each of the categories included in the Charter as a basis for CSR-Related Organizations in Which Konica understanding and practicing Minolta Participates or Is a Signatory desired behavior. The Group Guidance articulates Konica ● United Nations Global Compact Minoltaʼs respect for interna● Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) ● Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI) tional social norms such as the ● Japan Electronics and Information Technology United Nations Global Compact, to which Konica Minolta, Inc. is a Industries Association (JEITA), Responsible Minerals signatory, and its commitment Trade Working Group, Conflict-Free Sourcing to acting in compliance with Working Group those ideals. CSR Management System At Konica Minolta, Inc., the executive officer responsible for ment executive meeting and the management council CSR, who is appointed by the Board of Directors, carries out meeting, which addresses important matters as approprithe duties and authorities concerning the entire Groupʼs ate, and also reports to the Board of Directors once a year. CSR activities. Directly reporting to the officer is the Since fiscal 2017, CSR has been positioned as an integral Corporate Sustainability Division, which sees to the implepart of business management, and non-financial performentation of CSR management for the entire Group. mance indicators such as criteria related to the environOn a weekly basis, the division reports initiative ment, society, and governance (ESG) are being used to progress to the officer, while also reviewing measures and evaluate executive officers. making proposals. The officer consults with the manageBoard of Directors Appointment Reports Appointment Reports Executive Officers Executive Officer Responsible for CSR Decision-making on each divisionʼs strategy, Decision-making related to CSR, Coordination commitment to goal achievement commitment to goal achievement Communication of policy Reports Communication of policy Reports Corporate Planning and Management Divisions and CSR Promotion Division Related Departments Monitors each divisionʼs Coordination Goal setting and progress management goal setting and progress Daily dialogue Stakeholders Disclosure of CSR information ● Customers ● Employees ● Local and global communities ● Business partners ● Shareholders/investors 17 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2019 Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements Process for Identifying Material Issues The companies of today must address a wide range of social “impact on the Groupʼs business” (materiality to the compaissues, including human rights, labor ethics, and environnyʼs business), to verify their materiality. Outside experts were mental challenges such as climate change and resource asked for their opinions in order to incorporate objectivity into depletion. In light of the changing social landscape and the decisions on the materiality of each issue, which were business environment, Konica Minolta identifies material validated by a meeting attended by executive officers, thereby issues to address with priority, with the aim of ensuring that completing the process for identifying material issues. its initiatives function with a balance between social issues Targets and action plans will be established in accorand business objectives. dance with these material issues, and action will be taken. To identify material issues, first a comprehensive list of This approach will help to ensure that Konica Minolta contribissues was created with reference to international guidelines. utes to the resolution of social challenges, thereby enhancing These issues were given a quantitative rating for two aspects, its competitiveness as a company. “stakeholder interest” (materiality to stakeholders) and Process for Identifying Material Issues Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4 Issue awareness Assessment of issues Assessment of Validation and from stakeholdersʼ materiality identification perspectives for Konica Minolta and prioritization Make an extensive list of Quantitatively assess the Quantitatively assess the Validate and identify material environmental, social, and materiality of issues based on materiality of issues based issues at a meeting attended economic issues with reference publicly available sustainability on their impact on the by executive officers while to GRI guidelines, the UNGC, information and interviews Groupʼs business and incorporating the opinions of ISO 26000, and the SDGs with outside experts, etc. prioritize the issues outside experts Identification of Material Issues Material Issues Boundary Corresponding GRI Standards ● Group ● Materials 1 Environment ● Business partners ● Energy ● Emissions to Air ● Supplier Environmental Assessment ● Customers Higher 2 Social Innovation ● Group − Materiality to Customer Satisfaction 3 and Product Safety ● Group ● Customer Health and Safety stakeholder Responsible ● Group Higher Materiality to 4 Supply Chain ● Business ● Supplier Social Assessment the companyʼs business partners ● Employment 5 Human Capital ● Group ● Occupational Health and Safety ● Training and Education 6 Diversity ● Group ● Diversity and Equal Opportunity 18 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2019 Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements Stakeholder Engagement Konica Minolta believes that dialogue with diverse while disclosing information using various communication stakeholders including customers, employees, the local and tools to help people understand Konica Minoltaʼs approach. global communities, business partners, shareholders and The opinions acquired from conversations with investors is essential to create both social and business stakeholders are reviewed and urgent concerns are reportvalue. Therefore, each division in charge engages in daily ed to management, facilitating improvements in managedialogue, and the company also proactively creates opporment, products and services. tunities for communication, including at the executive level, Stakeholder Engagement Activities Incorporation of Feedback Tools and Opportunities for Stakeholders Main Issues into Management, Products Communication and Services Customers ● Providing customer service via websites ● Increasing customer ● Improving product and Konica Minolta does business and call centers satisfaction by service quality based on ● Providing product information via providing top-tier results of customer around the world. The major customers of Konica Minoltaʼs websites and newsletters quality and reliability satisfaction surveys main business operations are ● Conducting customer satisfaction from the customerʼs ● Solving customersʼ issues corporations, government surveys perspective ● Exchanging information via visits to agencies, and hospitals. customers ● Exchanging information at showrooms and trade shows ● Holding seminars Employees ● Interactive intranet ● Enhancing human ● Establishing environments Konica Minolta employs 44,360 ● Group journal capital̶the source of that spark innovation to people worldwide. Of those, ● Employee engagement survey value creation̶based create value ● Dialogue with labor unions on health ● Implementing various 25.4% are in Japan, 25.4% are in ● Internal help line systems Europe, 20.9% are in the U.S., management human resources ● Discussion during inspection tours of ● Enhancing human development programs and 28.3% are in China and ● Improving lifestyle habits by elsewhere in Asia and other production sites by senior staff capital so that ● Video messages from the CEO individuals thrive by presenting future disease locations. (Figures are based on total regular employees of fostering a culture that risk for each individual consolidated companies, as of increases productivity, March 31, 2019.) creativity, and job satisfaction Local and global ● Activities that contribute to local ● Communicating with ● Enhancing information communities communities local communities and disclosed in a timely ● Community briefings and invitational disclosing corporate manner via international Throughout its global operations, Konica Minolta acts events information in a timely publications and websites ● Sending speakers to lectures and places and fair manner ● Planning activities that as a responsible member of every community where it of education ● Existing in harmony contribute to local ● Industry group activities with local communities communities operates. ● Environmental reports and websites ● Developing the next ● Global public relations activities through generation of international publications and websites employees Business partners ● Holding suppliersʼ meetings ● Co-creation of shared ● Strengthening relationships Konica Minolta procures raw ● Procurement Collaboration System value by business by sharing information with ● Conducting CSR surveys partners, customers, business partners materials, parts and components from many (self-assessment questionnaires) and Konica Minolta ● Visiting suppliers to exchange ● CSR in the supply chain suppliers for each of the Groupʼs businesses. The information majority of these suppliers are located in Japan, China, and elsewhere in Asia. Shareholders and investors ● Shareholdersʼ meetings ● Sustainable growth ● Increasing management Since Konica Minolta, Inc. has ● Briefings for investors and increasing quality through constructive relatively high ownership by ● Visits to investors corporate value dialogue with shareholders institutional and foreign ● Briefings for business analysts and through constructive and investors shareholders, the company is institutional investors dialogue ● Integrated reports expected to proactively take part ● IR website in IR initiatives on a global basis. 19 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2019 Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements Taking the Podium at Seminars for Institutional Investors In recent years, ESG investment, which considers corporate approaches to environmental sustainability, social responsibility, and governance in addition to their financial performance, has been growing rapidly. Konica Minolta proactively disseminates information in response to the interests of such investors. In February 2018, Shoei Yamana, President and CEO of Konica Minolta, Inc., took the podium at a seminar for finance executives organized by a major Japanese telecommunications company. He conveyed Konica Minoltaʼs ESG initiatives by delivering a keynote speech and participating in a panel discussion at this seminar, which was attended by top executives of financial institutions. Keynote speech at a seminar for finance executives ESG Evaluation by External Parties Konica Minolta has earned high praise internationally. (Information is as of June 2019) Inclusion in Prominent Investment Indices ● Inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index since 2012, and as an Industry Leader for two consecutive years ● Inclusion in the MSCI ESG Leaders Indexes (formerly the MSCI Global SRI) since 2010 ● Inclusion in the FTSE4Good Index Series since 2003 ● Inclusion in all three investment indicators adopted by the Government Pension Investment Fund (GPIF), Japan: FTSE Blossom Japan Index, MSCI Japan ESG Select Leaders Index, and MSCI Japan Empowering Women Index from the beginning of its establishment in 2017 Evaluations by International ESG Rating Agencies ● Ranked Gold Class for two consecutive years by RobecoSAM, a world-leading research and rating company in the ESG field ● Certified as a Supplier Engagement Leader for two consecutive years by CDP, an international NGO that works to achieve sustainable economies ● Inclusion in the 2019 Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations in the World ranking by Canada-based Corporate Knights ● Awarded Prime Status as a global electronics industry leader by ISS-oekom since 2011 Recognition in Japan ● Ranked first place in the overall manufacturing sector in the 22nd Environmental Management Survey by Nikkei Inc. ● Included in the Health and Productivity Stock Selection, a joint initiative by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and the Tokyo Stock Exchange ● Awarded the top position overall in the tenth Quality Management Level Research 20 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2019 Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements CSR Targets and Results Medium-Term Environmental Plan 2019, fiscal 2018 targets and results Medium-Term Environmental Plan 2019 Material Issue Key Action Priority Issue Business Value Environmental Value Environment Green Products (1) Creation of Sustainable Sales ● CO 2 emissions reduction (planning and Green Products (SGPs) ● Sustainable Green during product use: sought by customers Products sales: 17.2 thousand tons development) and society 770 billion yen ● CO 2 emissions reduction in (sales ratio: 70%) the procurement stage: Cost reductions 45.9 thousand tons ● Effective resource utilization: ● Resource-saving cost reduction 11.3 thousand tons ● Control emissions + Social issue solutions based on SDGs (2) Complying with Sales ● Reduce environmental government ● Eliminate lost sales impact through compliance procurement standards opportunities with standards and environmental label requirements (3) Dependably complying Risk avoidance ● Reduce hazardous chemical with product-related ● Eliminate effect on sales substance risk by conforming laws and regulations to laws and regulations Green Factory (1) Excellent Green Cost reductions ● CO 2 emissions reduction in (procurement and Factory activities ● Energy and resource production activities: cost reduction 19 thousand tons production) ● Effective resource utilization: 2.8 thousand tons ● Water consumption reduction: 220 thousand m3 (2) Expansion of Green Cost reductions ● CO 2 emissions reduction Supplier activities ● Supplier cost reductions at suppliers: 5 thousand tons ● Effective resource utilization Sales ● Measures and expertise at suppliers: database creation, and 0.25 thousand tons knowledge + Social issue solutions based commercialization on SDGs (3) Expanded adoption Sales ● Renewable energy ratio: 1% of renewable energy ● Eliminate lost sales + Social issue solutions based opportunities on SDGs (4) Supply chain Risk avoidance ● Environmental impact reduction risk response ● Eliminate environmental through standards compliance impact from procurement, production, and sales Green Marketing (1) Strengthening Sales ● Reduce customersʼ relationships with ● Acquire sales opportunities environmental impact (distribution, sales and service, customers globally + Social issue solutions based on SDGs and collection and recycling) (2) Optimizing the supply Cost reductions ● CO 2 emissions reduction chain and linking ● Reduce cost of distribution in distribution: environmental and packaging 0.3 thousand tons ● Effective resource utilization: initiatives 0.04 thousand tons (3) Complying with Risk avoidance ● Resource recycling through laws on collection ● Eliminate effect collection and recycling of and recycling of on sales used products used products Note: Fiscal 2018 CO2 emissions throughout the product lifecycle totaled about 1.04 million tons, representing a 49.6% reduction, compared to fiscal 2005 levels. Under Eco Vision 2050, Konica Minoltaʼs long-term goal is to achieve an 80% reduction by 2050. 21 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2019 Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements Self-assessment of performance 100% or above: 〇 80% or above, less than 100%: △ Less than 80%: ● Preventing global warming ● Supporting a recycling-oriented society ● Reducing chemical substance risks ● Environment overall ● Restoring and preserving biodiversity Fiscal 2018 Targets Fiscal 2018 Results Business Value Environmental Value Business Value Environmental Value Green Sales ● CO 2 emissions reduction Sales ○ ● CO 2 emissions reduction ○ ● Sustainable Green during product use: ● Sustainable Green during product use: Products Products sales: 13.2 thousand tons Products sales: 15.0 thousand tons (1) 700 billion yen ● CO 2 emissions reduction in 778.5 billion yen ● CO 2 emissions reduction in (sales ratio: 65%) the procurement stage: (sales ratio: 74%) the procurement stage: Cost reductions 39.8 thousand tons Cost reductions 41.8 thousand tons ● Effective resource utilization: ● Effective resource utilization: ● Resource-saving ● Resource-saving cost reduction 10.4 thousand tons cost reduction 12.6 thousand tons (2) Sales ● Reduce environmental Sales ○ ● Reduced environmental ○ ● Eliminate lost sales impact through compliance ● Eliminated lost sales impact through compliance opportunities with standards opportunities with standards (3) Risk avoidance ● Reduce hazardous chemical Risk avoidance ○ ● Reduced hazardous chemical ○ ● Eliminate effect substance risk by conforming ● Eliminated effect substance risk by conforming on sales to laws and regulations on sales to laws and regulations Green Cost reductions ● CO 2 emissions reduction in Cost reductions ○ ● CO 2 emissions reduction in ○ Factory ● Energy and resource production activities: ● Energy and resource production activities: cost reduction 23.4 thousand tons cost reduction 26.5 thousand tons (1) ● Effective resource utilization: ● Effective resource utilization: 4.8 thousand tons 7.1 thousand tons ● Water consumption ● Water consumption reduction: 213 thousand m3 reduction: 274 thousand m3 (2) Cost reductions ● CO 2 emissions reduction Cost reductions ○ ● CO 2 emissions reduction ○ ● Supplier cost at suppliers: ● Supplier cost at suppliers: reductions 5.4 thousand tons reductions 9.1 thousand tons ● Effective resource utilization ● Effective resource utilization at suppliers: at suppliers: 0.35 thousand tons 0.63 thousand tons (3) Sales ● Renewable energy ratio: Sales ○ ● Renewable energy ratio: ○ ● Eliminate lost sales 0.6% ● Eliminated lost sales 1.5% opportunities opportunities (4) Risk avoidance ● Environmental impact Risk avoidance ○ ● Environmental impact ○ ● Eliminate reduction through ● Eliminated reduction through environmental impact standards compliance environmental impact standards compliance from procurement, from procurement, production, and sales production, and sales Green Sales ● Reduce customersʼ Sales ○ ● Reduced customersʼ ○ Marketing ● Acquire sales environmental impact ● Acquired sales environmental impact opportunities opportunities (1) (2) Cost reductions ● CO 2 emissions reduction Cost reductions ○ ● CO 2 emissions reduction in ○ ● Reduce cost of in distribution: ● Reduced cost of distribution: distribution and 0.4 thousand tons distribution and 0.6 thousand tons packaging ● Effective resource utilization: packaging ● Effective resource utilization: 0.02 thousand tons 0.03 thousand tons (3) Risk avoidance ● Resource recycling through Risk avoidance ○ ● Resource recycling through ○ ● Eliminate effect collection and recycling of ● Eliminated effect collection and recycling of on sales used products on sales used products 22 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2019 Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements Targets and Results Regarding Social Impact Material Issue Key Action Fiscal 2018 Targets and Plans Business development ● Promote new business development through core technologies and open Social Innovation innovation that contributes solutions ● Promote business development at the companyʼs five Business Innovation Centers to social issues (BICs) ● Continue to survey nursing care staff about satisfaction with Care Support Solutions and implement improvements for any issues identified Achieving top-tier quality Number of serious product-related accidents*1: 0 Customer Satisfaction ● ● Number of serious security incidents*2 in the service business area: 0 and Product Safety and reliability Creating new ● Continue conducting satisfaction surveys and implement improvements based on the results quality value ● Construct verification processes for customer value creation using design thinking Promoting CSR CSR procurement (FY2017 to FY2019) Responsible ● Request that suppliers carry out CSR activities: 100% implementation Supply Chain in the supply chain ● CSR assessment: Complete assessments of all Group production sites and approximately 120 important suppliers ● CSR audit: Complete audits of two important Group production sites and two important suppliers Response to conflict mineral issues (FY2017 to FY2019) ● Supplier response rate to conflict mineral surveys: Maintaining 95% or higher ● Respond to customersʼ requests for surveys: 100% Work-style reform ● Prepare operational and workplace environments Human Capital ● Reform operational processes ● Make the most of diverse talent ● Expand systems ● Clarify roles and authorities ● Enhance efficiency using RPA*3: Save approximately 19,000 hours Developing ● Accelerate the development of high-potential human resources, and foster global human capital human resources development for executives ● Promote an overseas training program for young employees in Japan ● Develop entrepreneurs who can create new businesses based on customer needs ● Develop human resources who can establish IoT business models Occupational safety ● Serious accidents*4: 0 and health ● Frequency rate of accidents causing absence from work*5 (FY2017 to FY2019): 0.1 or less ● Improve health and safety management capability using Konica Minoltaʼs original indicator Unsafety Marks*6 ● Advance comprehensive risk management that broadly minimizes equipment, materials, operation and work environment risks ● Enhance the safety culture: Top management involvement in safety promotion, workplace safety management, and individual safety awareness improvement Improving employee ● Curb the number of absences due to illness health ● Reduce the number of employees with health risks (1) People with high physical health risk: Reduced by 4.5% from fiscal 2017 (2) Persons needing specified health guidance (persons needing active support): Reduced by 3% from fiscal 2017 Supporting womenʼs ● Foster awareness and a culture supportive of diversity, with a focus on promoting Diversity participation by women career advancement ● Consider ways of supporting life events affecting both men and women, such as childbirth, child-rearing and caretaking, and consider work styles tailored to these life events ● Appoint female managers (target for fiscal 2019: Women hold 7% of all management positions) ● Raise the percentage of women among new graduate hires (30% or more) Utilizing employee ● Active recruitment of mid-career human resources and personnel from outside of Japan experiences gained ● Provide opportunities to gain experience and knowledge outside of the company outside the company ● Promote exchanges among employees globally and provide venues for innovation and abroad creation where diverse employees can inspire and learn from each other *1 Serious product-related accidents refer to those accidents that cause serious harm to the product userʼs life and/or body and accidents that cause serious damage to assets other than the product. *2 Serious security incidents refer to those product-security incidents that cause serious and significant harm to the product userʼs business. *3 RPA (Robotic Process Automation): Automating routine business processes on a personal computer 23 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2019 Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements Fiscal 2018 Results Fiscal 2019 Targets and Plans ● Began marketing of WoundAide, an automatic wound measurement ● Promote new business development through core technologies and open system for medical institutions in Singapore (BIC Asia Pacific) innovation ● Conducted surveys of nursing care staff about their satisfaction with Care ● Promote business development at the companyʼs five Business Innovation Support Solutions and addressed issues Centers (BICs) ● Increase customer satisfaction with Care Support Solutions by using data to address issues ● Number of serious product-related accidents*1: 0 ● Number of serious product-related accidents*1: 0 ● Number of serious security incidents*2 in the service business area: 0 ● Number of serious security incidents*2 in the service business area: 0 ● Customer satisfaction surveys conducted according to the characteristics of ● Continue conducting satisfaction surveys and implement improvements each business area and improvements made on issues based on the results ● Built the framework of verification processes for customer value creation ● Construct verification processes for customer value creation using design thinking CSR procurement CSR procurement ● Requested that suppliers carry out CSR activities: 100% implementation ● Request that suppliers carry out CSR activities: 100% implementation ● CSR assessment: Completed assessment of 18 Group production sites and ● CSR assessment: Complete assessments of 60 important suppliers 15 important suppliers ● CSR audit: Complete audits of an important supplier ● CSR audit: Confirmed improvements in areas indicated in CSR audits at two Group production sites Response to conflict mineral issues Response to conflict mineral issues ● Supplier response rate to conflict mineral surveys: 98% ● Supplier response rate to conflict mineral surveys: Maintaining 95% or higher ● Responded to customersʼ requests for surveys: 100% ● Respond to customersʼ requests for surveys: 100% ● Used system allowing second job or concurrent working: About 30 people ● Prepare operational and workplace environments ● Liberalized office dress code ● Make the most of diverse human resources ● Introduced a new hourly leave system ● Enhance efficiency using RPA*3: Save approximately 33,000 hours ● Enhanced efficiency using RPA*3: Saved approximately 19,000 hours ● Implemented Global e-Juku (16 participants) ● Expand pool of executive candidates to globally lead transformation into a ● Offered overseas training program for young employees in Japan: 31 digital company with insight into implicit challenges and accelerate their participants development (Global e-Juku, overseas training program for young ● Implemented 9th business producers development program (Challenge employees) Gijutsusha Forum (CGF)): 20 participants ● Establish a culture and system for creating organizations full of business ● Enhanced internal training program in line with educational system needed athletes who can win out globally (KIZUKI Workshops) to develop data scientists (DS) and KM product owners (KMPO): 254 DSs certified and 168 KMPOs registered ● Serious accidents*4: 1 ● Serious accidents*4: 0 ● Frequency rate of accidents causing absence from work*5: Japan, 0.25; ● Frequency rate of accidents causing absence from work*5 (FY2017 to Overseas, 0.20 FY2019): 0.1 or less ● According to Konica Minoltaʼs original safety management indicator ● Improve health and safety management capability using Konica Minoltaʼs Unsafety Marks*6, a 20% reduction was maintained for the yearly average original indicator Unsafety Marks*6 for fiscal 2014–2016 ● Advance comprehensive risk management that broadly minimizes ● Provided e-Learning to increase safety awareness to 12,000 people a month equipment, materials, operation and work environment risks (all employees of Konica Minolta, Inc. and employees of Group companies ● Enhance the safety culture: Top management involvement in safety promotion, in Japan), with about 90% taking the training workplace safety management, and individual safety awareness improvement ● Curbed the number of absences due to illness (Konica Minolta, Inc.) ● Curb the number of absences due to illness (Konica Minolta, Inc.) Number of absences due to illnesses: 28 (as of April 1, 2019) Number of absences due to illnesses: 25 (as of April 1, 2020) ● Reduced the number of employees with health risks (Konica Minolta, Inc.) ● Reduce the number of employees with health risks (Konica Minolta, Inc.) (1) Employees with physical health risks: Down 22.3% from FY2017 (1) Employees with physical health risks: Reduced by 5% from FY2018 (2) Employees needing specified health guidance (persons needing active (2) Employees needing specified health guidance (persons needing active support): Down 3.7% from FY2017 support): Reduced by 3% from FY2018 ● Launched Diversity Advocates ● Foster awareness and a culture supportive of diversity, with a focus on ● Held workshops for key personnel groups (top management, general promoting participation by women managers, managers, and all women employees) ● Consider ways of supporting life events affecting both men and women, ● Held lectures to prepare for and alleviate worries about caregiving such as childbirth, child-rearing and caretaking, and consider work styles ● Women held 6.2% of all management positions (as of April 2019) tailored to these life events ● Percentage of women among new graduate hires: 31% (as of April 2019) ● Target for appointing female managers: Women hold 7% of all management positions ● Raise the percentage of women among new graduate hires (30% or more) ● Percentage of non-Japanese nationals among new employees hired by ● Active recruitment of mid-career human resources and personnel from Konica Minolta, Inc.: 19% (April 2019) outside of Japan ● Percentage of mid-career hires among total recruitment: 53% (Konica ● Provide opportunities to gain experience and knowledge outside of the Minolta, Inc.) company ● Promote exchanges among employees globally and provide venues for innovation creation where diverse employees can inspire and learn from each other *4 Serious accidents: (1) Death, disease requiring a long recovery period (or the possibility thereof), an injury resulting in a disability (or the possibility thereof), or a specific contagious disease; (2) an accident resulting in the death or injury of three or more workers during work at one point or the contraction of a disease (including accidents not accompanied by lost worktime) *5 Frequency rate of accidents causing absence from work: The number of persons absent from work per one million total actual working hours for current employees *6 Unsafety Marks: Numerical values obtained by assigning points based on the number, type and severity of accidents that occur in a workplace 24 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2019 Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements Environment Customer Satisfaction Responsible Supply Chain Human Capital Diversity and Product Safety Material Issue Environment Related SDGs Our Concept “Carbon Minus” by 2050: The Evolution of the Long-Term Environmental Target Eco Vision 2050 Given the urgency of global environmental issues, global commitment to achieve a CO2 emissions reduction effect that businesses have a great responsibility to help build a more exceeds the CO2 emissions produced by Konica Minoltaʼs sustainable society by reducing environmental impact. business activities in cooperation with stakeholders such as With Eco Vision 2050, Konica Minolta exemplifies its business partners, customers and local communities. determination to fulfill its long-term environmental responIf the company can reduce its CO2 emissions by 80% by sibilities. The company is taking a series of actions to 2050, the remaining 20% will be approximately 400,000 achieve “Carbon Minus” status. tons. By helping stakeholders utilize Konica Minoltaʼs With Eco Vision 2050, Konica Minolta aims to reduce technologies and expertise to reduce their own CO2 the CO2 emissions from its products throughout their emissions by 400,000 tons or more, the net outcome will be entire lifecycle by 80% compared to fiscal 2005 levels by that societyʼs overall CO2 emissions resulting from Konica 2050. The addition of “Carbon Minus” is Konica Minoltaʼs Minoltaʼs activities will be negative. CO2 Emissions Reduction and Carbon Minus Targets 2,067 Medium-Term Medium-Term thousand Eco Vision 2050 tons Environmental Plan 2016 Environmental Plan 2019 Science Based Targets (SBT) Eco Vision 2050 Procurement 1.Reduce CO2 emissions throughout the product lifecycle by 80% by 2050, compared to fiscal 40％ 50％ 60％ 80％ Production reduction reduction reduction reduction 2005 levels. Also through cooperation with Distribution achieved stakeholders, achieve CO2 emission reductions Sales and service greater than product lifecycle emissions, and Product use realize Carbon Minus status. Business activities 2.Promote recycling and effective use of Earthʼs CO2 emissions limited resources. throughout product lifecycle 3.Work to promote restoration and preservation of 2005 2016 2019 2030 2050 biodiversity. Activities to reduce CO2 emissions from customers, suppliers, and society 25 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2019 Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements Environment Customer Satisfaction Responsible Supply Chain Human Capital Diversity and Product Safety Medium-Term Environmental Plan 2019 Greater Business Contribution Creation of Shared Value with Stakeholders by Helping to Solve Environmental Issues to Realize “Carbon Minus” Status Under its management vision, Konica Minolta aims to be a When working to overcome environmental challenges on a global company that is vital to society. To realize this vision, global scale, there is a limit to what can be achieved by just it is necessary to identify social challenges as business one company. This is why it is essential to expand the impact opportunities and generate innovative solutions, which in of environmental efforts by working with stakeholders such turn will drive Konica Minoltaʼs own sustainable growth. as suppliers, customers, and local communities. The Medium-Term Environmental Plan 2019, launched Under its Medium-Term Environmental Plan 2019, the in fiscal 2017, is an integrated environmental and business company is working toward the Carbon Minus goal indicated plan. The aim is to grow the business, including sales and in Eco Vision 2050. The aim is to reduce the environmental profits, by helping to solve environmental challenges. impact of society as a whole by collaborating with stakeholders, including business partners and customers. Furthermore, the company has been developing an Medium-Term Environmental Plan 2019 Concept environmental digital platform (→P. 34) since fiscal 2018 as a measure to collaborate with more companies. 2021 For example, by creating a database of energy-saving Business methods used internally and sharing it with business partners, creation Konica Minolta can help suppliers to devise and implement Environmental their own energy-saving measures. By sharing these activities value with customers and expanding the circle of cooperation Solving 2019 Business growth globally, Konica Minolta believes that it can make a dramatic environmental issues (sales and profit) contribution to solving global environmental problems. 2016 Combining environmental issue solutions and business contribution Business value Direct contribution to sales and profit (cost reduction) Medium-Term Approach to Environmental Activities Past Present Future Alone With stakeholders With society broadly Cocreation Konica Minolta Konica Minolta + Customers & Connected digitally Business Partners Connected through core technologies 26 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2019 Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements Environment Customer Satisfaction Responsible Supply Chain Human Capital Diversity and Product Safety Measures to Achieve “Carbon Minus” Status 1 Solutions for customer environmental challenges: Customer CO2 emissions reduction, resource saving, and sales contribution 2 Environmental support for suppliers: Supplier CO2 emissions reduction, resource saving, and cost reduction 3 Circular economy (recycled materials): CO 2 emissions reduction for society, waste problem solutions, and creation of new businesses and employment 1 Customers (China) 1 Customers (France) • Sharing measures and expertise of • Sharing CSR activity expertise Konica Minolta factories through the Konica Minolta sales • Solving environmental problems company and factory in China • Promoting symbiosis with nature • Collaboration with the government Konica Minolta ２ Business partners (China) 1 Customers (Japan) • Database of measures and expertise • Digital workflow proposals utilizing • Energy-saving diagnostics Konica Konica Konica Minoltaʼs environmental Minolta Minolta digitalization database • Collaboration with Digital Manufacturing 3 Circular economy (Malaysia) 3 3 Circular economy (Mexico) • Expanding recycled materials globally • Expanding recycled materials globally • Creating small businesses for resource • Creating small businesses for resource Konica recycling recycling Minolta 2 Business partners (ASEAN) • Database of measures and expertise • Energy-saving diagnostics digitalization • Collaboration with Digital Manufacturing Identifying Material Issues from Both Risks reviews each material issue annually to ensure the issues and Opportunities selected and related plans are appropriate. When formulating the medium-term environmental plan, Through this process, goals for reinforcing the Konica Minolta identifies various environmental factors business are matched with environmental targets. The related to its business in terms of both risks and opportuniplan then becomes a commitment for both top manageties. Based on these findings, material issues are selected ment and the entire organization, resulting in effective where solutions can lead to business growth. The company environmental management. Materiality Analysis (Opportunities) Materiality Analysis (Risks) Creating businesses by digitalizing environmental knowledge and expertise Collaborating with suppliers and pursuing mutual growth by solving CSR and environmental issues Tightening of Earning trust by helping Creating products, chemical substance regulations customers solve services, Depletion of resources Renewable energy environmental and businesses (water resources) Adopting renewable energy challenges that help solve environmental Energy/climate that can contribute to business Ecosystem destruction Soil pollution change problems Materiality to stakeholders challenges Materiality to stakeholders (forests) Production Reducing cost by Depletion of stoppage due to business Reducing cost by improving resource improving energy efficiency partners lagging behind in resources utilization efficiency environmental stewardship (petroleum-based Air pollution resources) Developing Responding to Product environmental Obtaining environmental Environmental requests Obtaining support Water pollution recycling from customers technologies support from needs of customers from stakeholders to help solve stakeholders by helping environmental by sharing Environment protection Depletion of resources protect biodiversity problems in local environmental around factories (rare metals) communities activity achievements Lagging behind in Management of environmentally friendly waste laws compliance business practices Non-financial Lagging behind in government information disclosure procurement standards Materiality to business Materiality to business 27 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2019 Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements Environment Customer Satisfaction Responsible Supply Chain Human Capital Diversity and Product Safety Key Action 1 Green Products Background and Issues Vision Key Measures and KPIs Given the widespread awareness While working to develop Creating Sustainable Green of environmental and social products that help reduce the Products sought by customers challenges faced by the world environmental impact of and society today, the value that people seek customers and society, Konica ● Sustainable Green Products is shifting from material wealth Minolta also aims to encourage sales: ¥770.0 billion to improvements of the quality of the widespread adoption of (sales ratio: 70%) society. By understanding the these products by broadly ● CO2 emissions reduction during evolving values of society and promoting their value. Through product use: 17.2 thousand tons contributing solutions, Konica initiatives like these, while ● Effective resource utilization: Minolta is able to continue to helping to realize the develop competitive products Sustainable Development Goals 11.3 thousand tons which enhance its profitability. (SDGs), Konica Minolta strives to help build a sustainable society, earn social confidence, and achieve sustainable growth alongside the broader society as a company of choice. Product Initiatives Sustainable Green Products Certification System Konica Minolta introduced its original Green Products Sustainable Green Products Certification System Certification System in fiscal 2011 to drive the creation of Certification standards environmental value that matches business and product Environment SDGs characteristics. The goal is to reduce the environmental • Environmental impact Sustainable reduction not possible impact of customers and society, while also raising profitGreen Products with conventional products ability. The company has developed many Green Products Prime • Unique technology since the programʼs launch. (SGP Prime) • Management contribution Under the Medium-Term Environmental Plan 2019, Helping to solve launched in fiscal 2017, Konica Minolta is combining optical, • Products with social issues while Sustainable industry-top or image processing, measurement, and other technologies Green Products industry-first clearly presenting with its strengths in digital technology to create products Plus environmental each productʼs level (SGP Plus) performance of contribution to and services that can help provide solutions to environmenthe SDGs tal and social challenges based on the SDGs. In order to accelerate these efforts, Konica Minolta launched a • Products that offer Sustainable Green Products Certification System in fiscal Sustainable industry top-level Green Products environmental 2017, by expanding its original Green Products Certification (SGP) performance System to include standards for resolving social issues. The company aims to increase sales of Sustainable Green Products to 770 billion yen (70% of the Groupʼs total sales) by fiscal 2019. 28 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2019 Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements Environment Customer Satisfaction Responsible Supply Chain Human Capital Diversity and Product Safety Fiscal 2018 Activity Results In fiscal 2018, Konica Minolta placed 144 new models of Due to improved environmental performance, these certified Sustainable Green Products on the market, bringSustainable Green Products also had a CO2 emissions ing the total to 380. Sales of Sustainable Green Products in reduction effect during product use of 15.0 thousand fiscal 2018 came to 778.5 billion yen, or 74% of the Groupʼs tons and represented 12.6 thousand tons of effectively total sales. used resources. CO2 Emissions Reduction Effect Sustainable Green Product Sales During Product Use Effective Resource Utilization Sales Percentage of total sales (Billion yen) （％） (Thousand tons) (Thousand tons) 900 80 20 20 74 70 17.2 800 64 60 15 15.0 15 778.5 770.0 12.6 11.3 700 40 10 10.9 10 10.3 657.6 600 20 5 5 0 0 0 0 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 2017 2018 2019 (FY) (target) (target) (target) Close Up Example of a Certified Sustainable Green Product Full Color MFPs: bizhub C360i Series Related SDGs Environmental and social benefits ● Exterior body and internal parts containing recycled PC/PET, a composite material made from used plastic bottles and recycled polycarbonate (PC) and ABS resin; at least 25% by weight recycled material out of total plastic, the industryʼs top percentage for an A3 machine ● At least 20% reduction in typical electricity consumption (TEC) for one week compared to a conventional product thanks to newly developed toner and fusing unit ● Introduced new system of resource recycling, support for sustainable economic growth, and new job creation by developing new recycling technology for used materials and global waste collection and transportation methods Related SDGs CM-26d Spectrophotometer Environmental and social benefits ● Improved customersʼ productivity and yield rates while also enhancing resource utilization at production sites thanks to achievement of efficient color management of exterior parts such as plastic and color cards 29 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2019 Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements Environment Customer Satisfaction Responsible Supply Chain Human Capital Diversity and Product Safety Key Action 2 Green Factory Activities Background and Issues Vision Key Measures and KPIs Todayʼs increasingly urgent Konica Minolta engages in Green Green Factory activities environmental challenges Factory activities to reduce both ● Achieve Excellent Green Factory require society to use energy environmental impact and Certification at major and resources more efficiently. operating costs. This includes production sites worldwide by There is a limit to the degree of improving efficiency in its fiscal 2019 environmental impact reduction production processes, and the ● CO2 emissions reduction in that can be achieved solely by development and enhancement production activities: one company. Leading global of production technology. 19 thousand tons companies should increase their The company also promotes ● Effective resource utilization: positive contribution to global Green Supplier activities to environmental preservation by further reduce environmental 2.8 thousand tons expanding the focus of their impact. The aim is to make an Green Supplier activities activities to suppliers of parts immense environmental ● CO2 emissions reduction at and materials, throughout the contribution across the compaentire supply chain. nyʼs supply chain as the company suppliers: 5 thousand tons shares its own environmental ● Effective resource utilization at technologies and expertise and suppliers: 0.25 thousand tons works closely with suppliers. Initiatives in Production Excellent Green Factory Certification Konica Minoltaʼs Green Factory Certification System aims to environmental technologies and expertise with external reduce both environmental impact and operating costs. All stakeholders with the aim of reducing CO2 emissions from production sites had achieved the highest standard (Level external sources by an amount exceeding the CO2 2) by fiscal 2015. Moving forward, the company launched emissions reductions in its own business activities. its Excellent Green Factory Certification System in fiscal 2016. An Excellent Green Factory is a site that has achieved Excellent Green Factory Certification System the systemʼs certification standard of reducing CO2 emissions from external sources by an amount equivalent Carbon neutral Sustainable (Transforming society) to 10% of its own emissions by working in unison with Environmental impact reduction greater than suppliers, customers, and communities. This is in addition Green the impact of the companyʼs own factories, to complying with the previous certification standards for Factory utilizing cutting-edge environmental technology and expertise reducing environmental impacts from internal sources. The aim is for Konica Minolta to achieve the standards at all of its Reduction outside the Group Excellent (Social contribution) major production sites worldwide by fiscal 2019. Konica Green Substantially reducing the environmental Minolta is also working to meet its own standards for Factory impact of suppliers, customers, and local communities Sustainable Green Factory Certification by sharing its Excellent Green Factory Certification Standards • CO2 emissions 8% reduction on a performance basis Excellent Sustainable • External discharge volume 8% reduction on Business Green Factory Green Factory a performance basis activities 8% 8% • Water usage 8% reduction on reduction reduction a performance basis • Reducing the CO2 emissions of customers, suppliers, and CO2 emissions 10% Reduction reduction reduction exceeds that the broader society by an amount equivalent to 10% of beyond of Konica the CO2 emissions of Konica Minoltaʼs own factories the company Minolta 30 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2019 Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements Environment Customer Satisfaction Responsible Supply Chain Human Capital Diversity and Product Safety Fiscal 2018 Green Factories Activity Results In the first half of fiscal 2018, Konica Minolta Business environmental impact reduction measures. This support Technologies (Dongguan) Co., Ltd. (BMDG), a site in China contributed to the reduction of CO2 emissions from that produces MFPs, achieved Excellent Green Factory external sources. status nearly two years ahead of schedule. In addition to its In fiscal 2018, as a result of these activities in the producown environmental activities, BMDG shared its improvetion stage, 105 thousand tons of CO2 emissions and 18 ment measures with business partners and customers thousand tons of waste were eliminated compared to fiscal through factory tours and environmental seminars. It also 2005, and a total cost reduction of 6.1 billion yen was achieved. visited their plants to jointly consider and implement CO2 Emissions Reduction Effect during Production Waste Reduction Effect during Production (Thousand tons) (Thousand tons) 400 40 387 CO2 emissions Waste reduction*: reduction*: 300 105 thousand tons 30 18 thousand tons 273 26.5 200 Cost reduction: 20 Cost reduction: 3.0 billion yen 10 16.3 3.1 billion yen 100 0 0 2005 2018 (FY) 2005 2018 (FY) *The amount of reduction is calculated by subtracting the actual fiscal 2018 emissions amount from the estimated amount of emissions that would be produced if environmental conservation activities had not been implemented since fiscal 2005. Initiatives in Procurement Green Supplier Activities Konica Minolta conducts Green Supplier activities to reduce Konica Minoltaʼs environmental experts visit supplier both environmental impact and operating costs by providproduction sites and propose suggestions for improvement, ing suppliers with environmental technologies and experoutlining cost reduction benefits, investment rationale, and tise that it has developed via its Green Factory activities. other information. They then cooperate with suppliers as they take action to reduce their environmental impact. Green Supplier Activity Targets Issue Management Index Target Konica Minolta Konica Minolta (2.5 years after activity launch) Business Technologies (Wuxi) environmental 5% reduction manufacturing CO2 emissions (compared to the last year Providing Green experts Prevention before activity launch) Factory expertise of global warming 5% reduction Konica Minolta 3 suppliers Energy costs (compared to the last year Business Technologies before activity launch) (Dongguan) Visiting supplier sites 12.5% reduction Konica Minolta 5 suppliers and providing environmental External discharge (compared to the last year Business Technologies quantity before activity launch) techniques and (Malaysia) expertise Waste 6 suppliers reduction Material / waste costs Cost reduction greater than waste expenses •Energy-saving support program Final disposal rate 0.5% or less •Resource saving and waste reduction Reduction of Reduction of Compliance with chemical chemical risk chemical risk substance guidelines 31 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2019 Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements Environment Customer Satisfaction Responsible Supply Chain Human Capital Diversity and Product Safety Fiscal 2018 Green Supplier Activity Results Working to Continue the Expansion In fiscal 2018, Green Supplier activities were initiated with of Green Supplier Activities three new companies, bringing the total number of Under the Medium-Term Environmental Plan 2019, Konica companies Konica Minolta is working with to 17. By the Minolta is continuing the expansion of its Green Supplier end of fiscal 2018, a total of six companies had achieved activities. Until now, Konica Minolta has been promoting its their Green Supplier activity targets, which are equivalent efforts by sending environmental experts to visit suppliers. to the level of the Green Factory Certification Standards. With this approach, however, the number of improvement cases was limited. To increase the impact, the company is now using its energy-saving diagnosis method via a digital Companies That Achieved Green Supplier environmental platform (→P. 34) and accumulating and Activity Targets sharing environmental expertise. As a result, suppliers can Achievement Company Activity now identify their own areas for improvement and take Date Launch action to improve their practices and cost-effectiveness. This Mar. 2016 Shenzhen Changhong Technology FY2014 database is expected to have a broad impact and result in an Co., Ltd. Toyo Communication Technology even greater contribution to environmental sustainability. Mar. 2017 (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd. FY2014 Mar. 2017 Allied Technologies (Saigon) FY2015 Co., Ltd. Aug. 2017 Szepak Precision (Wuxi) Co., Ltd. FY2015 Aug. 2017 Catthai Manufacturing & Trading FY2016 Co., Ltd. (CATHACO., Ltd.) Mar. 2018 Well King Plastic Manufacturing FY2015 Co., Ltd. Voice of a Supplier We view environmental conservation as an extremely important initiative in the context of Chinaʼs recent pursuit of rapid economic growth and the advancement of its manufacturing industry. Konica Minoltaʼs Eco Vision 2050 is aimed at sustainable growth, which is an approach that matches the course we wish to follow. In the manufacturing industry, resource and energy consumption increase with business expansion and rises in production. This is why I believe that the “waste elimination activities” we worked on as part of the Green Supplier activities are essential for a growing manufacturing industry. Moreover, Konica Minoltaʼs sharing of its environmental expertise enabled us to Well King Plastic Manufacturing Co., Ltd. was recognized for achieving reduce our environmental impact while increasing its Green Supplier activity targets. our performance, giving us the experience of simultaneously contributing to the environment and supplying competitive products. We will continue to practice environmental conservation and energy reduction activities and will do our best to pursue sustainable development in collaboration with Konica Minolta. Happy Tsai President An executive officer of Konica Minolta, Inc. (second from right) listens WELLMEI HOLDING CO., LTD. to an explanation of production process measures. 32 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2019 Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements Environment Customer Satisfaction Responsible Supply Chain Human Capital Diversity and Product Safety Key Action 3 Green Marketing Background and Issues Vision Key Measures Environmental issues such as global Konica Minolta seeks to make a Strengthening warming and resource depletion substantial contribution to the relationships and helping cannot be solved by the efforts of entire value chain by sharing its customers solve their just one company. All companies expertise and experience with environmental challenges need to raise their level of contribucustomers to help resolve their ● Reduce customersʼ tion to global environment preservaenvironmental challenges. The environmental impact tion throughout the value chain. This goal is to strengthen relationships ● Generate sales can be achieved by going beyond the with customers and continually opportunities companyʼs immediate range of create shared value, building on activities, and creating shared value the foundation of trust they have with customers, communities and with Konica Minolta. other stakeholders. Initiatives in Sales and Service Green Marketing Activities advice to visitors from 239 companies. Along with providThe solutions provided by Konica Minolta include not only ing the environmental expertise practiced by Konica products and services, but also environmental expertise Minolta over the years, Konica Minolta representatives also that is useful to customers. Through Green Marketing visited some of the consultation recipients after the event to activities that provide the proven environmental expertise talk about environmental performance. the company already possesses, Konica Minolta seeks to In China, where environmental laws and regulations build corporate relationships by working with customers have been substantially tightened, Konica Minolta exhibitwho appreciate its approach to environmental manageed at the China International Environmental Protection ment to help them solve environmental issues. The aim of Exhibition & Conference (CIEPEC 2018) held in June 2018. these efforts is to become the business partner of choice for Over 200 people attended an environmental management companies around the world. seminar given by Konica Minolta at the exhibition, and 101 customers visited its booth to ask about the environment. Fiscal 2018 Activity Results The company also held a total of six environmental exchange Konica Minolta provided environmental seminars, lectures meetings at two of its factories. A total of 145 people from and factory tours in Japan to a total of 800 people from 415 93 companies toured the frontlines, gaining from the companies to introduce Konica Minoltaʼs approach to expertise developed at Konica Minolta production sites in environmental management, including practical examples. China. In some cases, expertise was mutually shared At EcoPro 2018 held in December in Tokyo, visitors were concerning a wide range of fields in addition to environintroduced to Konica Minoltaʼs environmental managemental performance, such as quality, production technoloment approach to solving environmental issues linked with gy, and human resources development. There are also a business plan, and the response was very favorable. The ongoing exchanges now being carried out between Konica companyʼs environmental consultation corner offered Minolta sites and other factories. Konica Minolta booth at EcoPro 2018 in Tokyo Konica Minoltaʼs environmental management seminar at the 16th China International Environmental Protection Exhibition & Conference 33 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2019 Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements Environment Customer Satisfaction Responsible Supply Chain Human Capital Diversity and Product Safety Voice of a Customer Toyoda Gosei is conducting environmental activities in I hope to enhance our efforts through the sharing of line with our TG 2050 Environmental Challenge, which energy-saving expertise and practical examples, and look aims to minimize our environmental impact, including forward to continued cooperation with Konica Minolta. CO2 emissions and waste reduction, by 2050. To push these activities forward, we hold an annual environmenKazuhiko Nagao tal lecture. This year, we had a lecture about environmenGeneral Manager, Environment Division tal management given by Takenori Takahashi, General TOYODA GOSEI CO., LTD. Manager of the Corporate Sustainability Division at Konica Minolta, a leading company in environmental activities. The lecture was attended by 193 people, including the president and other executives, representatives from each department, and representatives from affiliate companies in Japan. It was very motivating to learn about another companyʼs initiatives. Indeed, the feedback I heard included, “I learned that environmental activities actually tie into sales and profits,” and “There were improvement examples that sounded like things we could do, and so I took it in a positive way.” Members of Toyoda Gosei listening to an environmental lecture Building a Digital Environmental Platform environmental management support content and an Konica Minolta is in the process of building the framework energy-saving diagnostics tool. The platform will grow by for a digital environmental platform with the aim of creating accumulating Konica Minoltaʼs environmental expertise value by sharing environmental expertise. In order to and the knowledge of other participating companies. achieve “Carbon Minus” status, Konica Minolta must help Konica Minolta believes that this will support long-term external organizations reduce their environmental impact, environmental sustainability efforts. in addition to its internal efforts. It is believed that sharing Konica Minolta introduced this concept to customers at knowledge and expertise about sustainability and technolEcoPro 2018 and received positive feedback. Referencing ogy throughout the industry is necessary to pass down customersʼ opinions, the company will compile environinformation to the next generation of employees. mental knowledge, information, and expertise and make it Konica Minoltaʼs solution is to digitize and provide fit for practical use. environmental expertise, including in a biz-Library of Digital Environmental Platform Digital environmental platform Accumulation of advanced expertise (platform grows) Participating Registration and use fee company Environmental knowledge, information and expertise Providing Environmental Product Factory Office Utilizing expertise Konica Minolta management measure measure measures expertise Global Participating warming Chemical Resources Biodiversity companies Energy substances conservation Providing Konica expertise Minolta Companyʼs own environmental expertise (paid content) Biz-Library (video and Tools for diagnosing Konica Minolta written document) energy conservation (applications) Providing Providing expertise expertise Participating Own Own Own Own companies expertise expertise expertise expertise 10,000 Revenue from expertise companies 34 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2019 Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements Environment Customer Satisfaction Responsible Supply Chain Human Capital Diversity and Product Safety Material Issue Customer Satisfaction and Product Safety Related SDGs Our Concept Aiming to Become No. 1 in Customer Satisfaction Based on the Medium-Term Quality Plan 2019 Konica Minolta is helping to solve social issues by becomwith a high degree of reliability. By creating new quality ing a digital company that provides solutions with insight value, the company aims to become No. 1 in customer into implicit challenges facing society, which is the main quality satisfaction by improving customer engagement. goal set under Konica Minoltaʼs Medium Term Business Plan In order to realize highly reliable quality, the company “SHINKA 2019.” Based on the belief that developing solutions is working to transition from quality assurance for products to challenges faced by professionals in the workplace to include quality assurance for services while continuously ultimately benefits society by helping to resolve social issues, enhancing quality assurance and endeavoring to reduce it is important for the company to take the customerʼs quality risk in all service business areas. perspective in all of its actions, which means providing Meanwhile, in order to create new quality value, Konica assurance of the quality of its products and services. Minolta is enhancing its initiatives at the customerʼs To guide this new approach, Konica Minolta has recently frontline. By analyzing customer feedback, identifying implemented its Medium-Term Quality Plan 2019 based on latent challenges, and then helping to solve them, Konica the concept of shifting focus from quality from the manufacMinolta is striving to achieve a new level of engagement turerʼs perspective to quality from the customerʼs perspective. above and beyond customer expectations. Under this plan, Konica Minolta is striving to provide customers with safety and security by achieving quality Customer Safety Security Trust Engagement Becoming No. 1 Konica Achieving Creating in customer Minolta top-tier quality and reliability new quality value satisfaction 35 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2019 Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements Environment Customer Satisfaction Responsible Supply Chain Human Capital Diversity and Product Safety Key Action 1 Achieving Top-Tier Quality and Reliability Background and Issues Vision Key Measures and KPIs Ensuring product safety and To deliver value to customers, ● Enhancing product risk assesssecurity is essential for delivering Konica Minolta continually seeks to ments and improving quality consistently high quality. It goes enhance its products and services, awareness: Number of serious without saying that Konica incorporating cutting-edge product-related accidents*1 in Minolta strives to improve the technologies. Simultaneously, fiscal 2019: 0 quality of and ensure the safety the Group is raising awareness ● Reducing quality risk in the of the hardware it provides. With among employees about service business area: Number the advancement of IoT, Konica addressing quality from the of serious security incidents*2: 0 Minolta also recognizes that a customerʼs perspective, while more robust approach to IT continuously enhancing quality threats is crucial to sustainable assurance activities. The aim is to growth, as they can cause serious provide customers with products damage to customer operations. and services that offer even greater convenience, safety and peace of mind. *1 Serious product-related accidents refer to those accidents that cause serious harm to the product userʼs life and/or body and accidents that cause serious damage to assets other than the product. *2 Serious security incidents refer to product-security incidents that cause serious and significant harm to the product userʼs business. Main Initiatives in Fiscal 2018 Risk Assessment, Education, and Sharing Enhancing Secure Product Development Technology to Ensure Product Safety and Operation In order to deliver safe products to customers, the Konica Today, preparing for security incidents that involve Minolta Group carries out risk assessment in the product exploitation of product vulnerabilities, such as unauthorized commercialization stage, then follows with a safety design intrusion and data tampering, is a necessity. Information based on these results and detailed safety checks. regarding the vulnerability of products is being centrally At the development stage in particular, the Group managed group-wide. Along with promoting the necessary closely evaluates each product part in order to thoroughly measures, the company launched KM-PSIRT* as a group-wide reduce risk and ensure product safety. organization to collaborate with external public organizaIn fiscal 2018, a working group which crossed business tions in fiscal 2017, and has been engaged with this process domains was launched and began to share and standardize since then. Additionally, Konica Minolta has established accident prevention technologies. Further, basic product security guidelines spanning the entire product lifecycle safety training, including risk assessment exercises, was from product planning and development to product use. provided to engineers. The The Group is also running mechanisms to ensure that Group is also working hard secure products are provided to the market, and to respond Number of serious to foster a safety-oriented product-related and report promptly when incidents occur. mindset, enhance skillsets, accidents in fiscal 2018 Additionally, in fiscal 2018, the Group regularly 0 and ensure product safety conducted drills based on security incident scenarios to by holding workshops on ensure that the appropriate protocol is followed. These drills technologies for preventwere also conducted at affiliated companies outside Japan. ing product accidents. *KM-PSIRT: Konica Minoltaʼs Product Security Incident Response Team, a product vulnerability response organization 36 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2019 Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements Environment Customer Satisfaction Responsible Supply Chain Human Capital Diversity and Product Safety Creating a Quality Assurance System Quality Issues and Steps to Grow Service Business Areas in Service Business Areas in the IoT Era In service business areas, the company believes it must shift Product business Service business from product quality assurance to service quality assurance (marketing products) (marketing services) and establish the most innovative processes. Services are different from manufactured products as they lack physical A change in the approach to quality form, their quality cannot be checked in advance, and they is necessary highlight the importance of process in addition to results. Consequently, it is a challenge to predict and manage Step 1 Step 2 highly reliable quality. Create mechanisms Enhance quality Based on this shift, the company is working to build a that can guarantee assurance in the service commercialization process. This will include estabservice quality service business lishing quality standards suited to the features of products • Build a service • Create a system to in this area as well as creating management guidelines. This commercialization enhance quality effort aims to create a mechanism for quality assurance in process assurance from a global • Develop human perspective the upstream stage of the service business. It also provides resources skilled in training on skills needed in the IoT service business to managing processes develop human resources skilled in process management. Konica Minolta is developing service businesses in proximity to its customers, with sites all around the world. A global outlook is crucial for creating a mechanism that ensures strong quality assurance worldwide. Close Up This reflects a high evaluation of the companyʼs JUSE Awards Konica Minolta Top establishment of a Quality Management Headquarters Position in Quality Management to solve quality issues shared companywide and its Level Research efforts to establish an IoT-based production system independent of people and place. Konica Minolta, Inc. was awarded the top position in the tenth Quality Management Level Research in November 2018 by the Union of Japanese Scientists and Engineers (JUSE). This research evaluates initiatives to maintain and improve the quality of products and services in terms of six factors and then creates a ranking based on the sum of points for each factor. Konica Minolta, Inc. was #1 in “capability to cooperate across divisions” and among the top three in “top management commitment,” “development of human resources to ensure quality management,” and “establishment and compliance of processes.” Award ceremony 37 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2019 Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements Environment Customer Satisfaction Responsible Supply Chain Human Capital Diversity and Product Safety Key Action 2 Creating New Quality Value Background and Issues Vision Key Measures Long-term customer relationKonica Minolta uses customer ● Continue conducting satisfacships are essential to the success feedback to improve its products tion surveys and implementaof Konica Minoltaʼs businesses in and services. The company tion of improvements based on office equipment, medical devices, strives to strengthen its relationthese results measuring instruments, and ships by helping customers ● Improving the accuracy of other products. In order for achieve their unique goals. verification processes for Konica Minolta to remain Konica Minolta aims to continucustomer value creation using irreplaceable in an era when ally improve customer satisfacdesign thinking* customer needs are becoming tion and form strong relationmore sophisticated and diverse, ships that result in a positive the ability to anticipate potential reputation and new customer challenges is required. referrals. Furthermore, it will Consequently, Konica Minolta continue to create value for understands the importance of customers and contribute to the visiting customer sites in order to identification and solution of build trusting relationships, social issues. foster collaboration, and provide solutions to problems. *Design thinking: A mindset and method for discovering the value that customers need. It helps create ways to realize value by applying rapid cycles of observation, understanding, issue definition, idea generation, prototyping, and verification. Main Initiatives in Fiscal 2018 Strengthening Customer Relationships Enhancing Quality Improvement Activities Konica Minolta strives to continuously improve customer from the Customerʼs Perspective satisfaction at all Group companies worldwide, and continThe staff of Konica Minoltaʼs sales companies are in daily ues to see the positive effects of using customer satisfaction contact with customers. As part of the companyʼs effort surveys in each business domain. Furthermore, the compato improve quality from the customerʼs perspective, ny is focusing on NPS* as an indicator of the level of customsales company staff participate in sales company joint er engagement. The company has globally developed its evaluations and take part in evaluating quality in the own scientific approach that adds NPS to worldwide customdevelopment stage. In addition, since fiscal 2017, er satisfaction surveys and uses the results to improve C-PIUZ* activities have been conducted to obtain the product and service quality. candid opinions of customers regarding quality. These On the NPS survey in the mainstay Business Technoloactivities allow staff from the quality assurance and gies Business, the fiscal 2018 score was unchanged from development departments to visit customers together fiscal 2017 and nine points higher than in fiscal 2014. In with sales company staff. Through this activity, employaddition to the annual survey, Konica Minolta gives the NPS ees gauge customer feedback and make use of this survey to customers immediately following transactions information to improve products and services. where the customer contact was flagged by the sales compaAdditionally, Konica Minolta uses design thinking to ny. The company has also introduced an analytical tool that uncover the value that customers are truly seeking. In shows results in an accessible visual format immediately fiscal 2018, it established processes and methods for following a survey. By ascertaining requests and satisfachypothesis verification in the development stage, and to tion levels in real time, the company can improve quickly. determine whether the value is actually recognized by *NPS (Net Promoter Score): An indicator that measures the percentage of the customer once the product is on the market. The customers who recommend the company, its products and services to others results are applied to the development of products and services from customer perspectives. *C-PIUZ: Customer-Problem In Using to Zero, a unique Konica Minolta initiative to reduce quality problems that occur when customers are using the product. 38 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2019 Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements Environment Customer Satisfaction Responsible Supply Chain Human Capital Diversity and Product Safety Material Issue Responsible Supply Chain Related SDGs Our Concept Solving Social Issues with Suppliers through Business Activities Konica Minolta promotes CSR procurement throughout its standards such as the Universal Declaration of Human supply chain, helping to create sustainable societies that Rights*2 and ILO International Labour Standards*3 and respect human rights. works in cooperation with member companies under the The company believes that corporations are not only RBA framework. responsible for their products, but also socially responsible *1 Responsible Business Alliance (RBA): Organization that promotes CSR in to improve conditions of labor (human rights), ethics, the the supply chain environment, safety and health, throughout the supply chain *2 Universal Declaration of Human Rights: Basic human rights to be recognized by all people and countries, adopted in 1948 by the United Nations that delivers products to customers. Konica Minolta practices General Assembly CSR procurement in order to realize these improvements at *3 ILO International Labour Standards: Standards on human rights and labor its manufacturing sites and works closely with the suppliers adopted by the general assembly of the International Labour Organization (ILO) who supply raw materials and parts for its products. To further facilitate these efforts, Konica Minolta has joined the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA),*1 which conducts activities according to internationally recognized Konica Minoltaʼs Approach to CSR Procurement in the Supply Chain Customers Improvement of customer satisfaction ■ Purchasing of products made with a commitment to CSR Konica Minolta Suppliers Improvement of corporate value Improvement of corporate value Creation of ■ Expansion of sales opportunities ■ Expansion of sales opportunities shared value ■ Enhancement of brand power ■ Enhancement of brand power ■ Improvement of employee satisfaction ■ Improvement of employee satisfaction Sustainable society 39 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2019 Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements Environment Customer Satisfaction Responsible Supply Chain Human Capital Diversity and Product Safety Key Action 1 CSR Procurement Background and Issues Vision Key Measures and KPIs The Konica Minolta Group Konica Minolta addresses social FY2017 to FY2019 recognizes that, around the issues, seeking to contribute to ● Request that suppliers carry world, many people are forced to the creation of sustainable out CSR activities: 100% work with no respect for their societies. To achieve this, Konica implementation rights or in deplorable condiMinolta is working to solve social ● CSR assessment: Complete tions, and that children and challenges through its business assessments of all Group foreign/migrant workers are activities, including procureproduction sites and particularly vulnerable to this. ment, production, and logistics, approximately 120 important The Group also understands that while cooperating with its suppliers companies must fulfill their suppliers. These initiatives are ● CSR audit: Complete audits of social responsibilities, not only expected to raise Konica related to their own products, Minoltaʼs corporate value as well two important Group but also throughout the entire as the value of its entire supply production sites and two supply chain for the products chain. Supplying products that important suppliers delivered to customers. customers can purchase with peace of mind is a sure way to ensure success in “Creating Shared Value.” Main Initiatives in Fiscal 2018 Promote CSR Activities, Assessment and Audits Konica Minolta leverages its Procurement Policy and In fiscal 2014 Konica Minolta carried out a RBA Supplier Code of Conduct to request suppliers to participate third-party audit*1 of a key manufacturing company. in activities that improve CSR in the supply chain. With explicThereafter, Konica Minolta utilized its knowledge of audits it targets and standards set in areas such as labor (human to expand Konica Minolta CSR audits*2 to the companies rights), ethics, the environment, and health and safety, that produce the main units for multi-functional peripherals these activities aim to promote improvements at suppliers. (MFPs) and printing equipment. In fiscal 2017, audit targets In order to ascertain the level of CSR activity implewere expanded to include companies that produce mentation, Konica Minolta conducts CSR assessments consumables, such as materials for MFPs and toner using Self-Assessment Questionnaires (RBA SAQ) based cartridges. To resolve the issues that were uncovered in on RBA standards, which are completed by its important CSR audits thus far, the audited companies must prepare suppliers and its production sites. Konica Minolta classiimprovement plans and submit status reports, enabling fies the results of the self-assessment questionnaire from Konica Minolta to confirm their progress. In fiscal 2018, rank A to C. The targets for overall scores are rank A for all Konica Minolta confirmed improvements in areas indicated Group production sites and rank B or higher for all suppliin previous CSR audits at two Group manufacturing sites. ers. Konica Minolta also conducts CSR audits of business In addition, Konica Minolta CSR audits were carried out partners that are particularly important to its business. at three important ASEAN business partners. Ongoing In fiscal 2018 Konica Minolta conducted CSR assesssupport was provided so that these business partners ments at 18 Group production sites and 15 suppliers. All would be able to continue these activities independently. In production sites achieved an overall rank of A, and all fiscal 2018, Konica Minolta prepared to expand the scope of suppliers achieved an overall rank of B or higher. target companies even more. Still, Konica Minolta has been asking suppliers whose *1 RBA third-party audit: Using RBA standards, audits are performed by a overall assessment results met the targets but had specific third-party institution certified by RBA (Validated Audit Program [VAP] audits). component scores that revealed weaknesses to make *2 Konica Minolta CSR audit: Using RBA standards, audits are performed by Konica Minolta auditors who have RBA qualifications. further voluntary improvements. The Group will continue to conduct periodic checks and provide support. 40 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2019 Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements Environment Customer Satisfaction Responsible Supply Chain Human Capital Diversity and Product Safety Key Action 2 Addressing Conflict Mineral Issues Background and Issues Vision Key Measures and KPIs There are concerns that certain Konica Minolta is determined to FY2017 to FY2019 mineral resources (tin, tantalum, refrain from purchasing ● Supplier response rate to conflict tungsten, gold) mined in the products, parts and materials mineral surveys: Maintaining Democratic Republic of Congo using conflict materials linked to 95% or higher (every year) (DRC) and neighboring human rights abuse in the DRC ● Response to customersʼ requests countries could be used to fund and neighboring countries to for surveys: 100% (every year) armed groups exacerbating contribute to a world where human rights abuse resulting upstream mines are not involved from these groupsʼ activities. in these abuses. Konica Minolta believes that it is responsible for addressing problems such as these which occur upstream in the supply chain, and considers this a CSR procurement issue. Main Initiatives in Fiscal 2018 Promoting Efforts to Address Conflict Minerals Number of SORs Confirmed Konica Minoltaʼs initiatives address conflict minerals in line in the Conflict Mineral Survey with the OECDʼs Five-Step Framework.*1 RMAP-compliant SORs SORs recognized by RMI Konica Minolta has conducted conflict minerals 350 surveys on an ongoing basis ever since its first survey in 313 312 303 311 fiscal 2013 on its mainstay Business Technologies Business. 300 The surveys obtained responses from 98% of the suppliers surveyed in fiscal 2018. In addition, when conducting the 252 252 survey, Konica Minolta explained cautionary points to 250 244 ensure that the survey results would be accurate, and also 210 requested that RMAP-compliant smelters or refiners 200 (SORs)*2 would be used to ensure that minerals are not sourced from SORs with links to conflict. The survey results 150 were reconciled with the RMI*3 list and the list of RMAP-compliant SORs. These results showed that of the 312 SORs, 252 are RMAP-compliant. To date, Konica 100 Minolta has not found any evidence of involvement with conflict minerals. 50 *1 OECDʼs Five-Step Framework: “Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas” issued 0 by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development *2 RMAP-compliant smelters or refiners: Smelters or refiners that comply with 2015 2016 2017 2018 （FY） the Responsible Minerals Assurance Process. *3 Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI): An organization with the participation of more than 350 companies and organizations worldwide that is leading efforts to address responsible mineral sourcing issues in supply chains 41 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2019 Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements Environment Customer Satisfaction Responsible Supply Chain Human Capital Diversity and Product Safety Expanding the Scope of Minerals Covered in the Survey Initiatives under the OECDʼs Five-Step Framework Growing awareness of the human rights risks in the supply chain has led to more calls for surveys on cobalt. Cobalt is Step 1 an important metal used in lithium ion batteries, which are Establish strong company required for a lot of electronic equipment. The share of management systems cobalt produced in the DRC is higher than that of the ● The company established the Konica Minolta Conflict conflict minerals (tin, tantalum, tungsten, gold), and there Minerals Policy Statement, requiring suppliers to be familiar with the policies. The policies are also are concerns about human rights violations in the areas incorporated into contracts with suppliers. around the mines. Accordingly, Konica Minolta began a ● Konica Minoltaʼs conflict mineral programs are survey on cobalt in fiscal 2018. incorporated into its environmental management system, led by an executive officer. In addition, a mechanism for implementing conflict mineral surveys, including production sites in and outside Japan, has Initiatives within Industry Groups been prepared to identify the SORs in the supply chain. Konica Minolta is an active member of JEITAʼs* Responsible ● The management and staff in the procurement Minerals Trade Working Group, which aims to ensure divisions in charge of procurement are given training regarding conflict mineral issues. responsible mineral procurement. Konica Minolta has provided instructors on an ongoing basis since fiscal 2014 for JEITAʼs Responsible Minerals Sourcing Inquiry Briefings for suppliers who participate in surveys. Many companies, not only in the electronics industry, but also in the automoStep 2 tive industry, participate in these briefings. As a separate Identify and assess risk in the supply chain initiative, Konica Minolta with other member companies ● Using the Conflict Minerals Reporting Template encourage SORs to engage in the Responsible Minerals (CMRT) issued by RMI, Konica Minolta implements Assurance Process directly. conflict mineral surveys. ● Based on the results of the survey and information from * Japan Electronics and Information Technology Industries Association (JEITA): An association with about 400 corporate and organization members the identified SORs, Konica Minolta assesses the risk to mainly in Japanʼs IT and electronics fields the supply chain, by each supplier, and by each product. These results are reported to the executive officer in charge. Step 3 Design and implement a strategy to respond to identified risks ● Based on the results of the risk assessment, Konica Minolta requests suppliers to take any needed steps related to conflict mineral issues. In addition, Konica Minolta engages in indirect efforts to ensure that minerals are conflict-free, such as building awareness JEITAʼs Responsible Minerals Sourcing Inquiry Briefing, 2018 about the issue of conflict minerals. Step 4 Carry out independent third-party due diligence audits for SORs ● Encourage SORs to participate in RMAP program through RMI and JEITA activities. Step 5 Report annually on supply chain due diligence ● Conflict mineral initiatives are posted every year on the companyʼs website. 42 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2019 Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements Environment Customer Satisfaction Responsible Supply Chain Human Capital Diversity and Product Safety Material Issue Human Capital Related SDGs Our Concept Developing Human Capital to Drive Value Creation Konica Minolta is transforming into a digital company with environments where everyone stays motivated to grow. insight into implicit challenges, which is to say that it uses Konica Minolta recognizes that good physical and digital technology to identify and solve implicit challenges mental health is critical to employeesʼ efforts to maximize faced by customers, recognizing this as key to achieving their potential. Accordingly, the Group implements a sustainable growth. In so doing, Konica Minolta provides strong health management program and is pursuing value to the professionals who work for its corporate customwork-style reform and human resource management in ers, which it believes will lead to solutions to challenges that order to support employeesʼ efforts to create customer people and society face. This is why Konica Minolta is value and accelerate self-directed growth. working to strengthen the abilities of its employees, ensurBy rolling out these initiatives globally, the Group seeks ing that individuals thrive. The Group is working to enhance to maximize the potential of all of its professionals and every members productivity and creativity and to create enhance their capacity to create value. Solving implicit challenges faced by society Develop human capital and ensure that individuals thrive Culture of taking on challenges and self-directed growth Productivity Creativity Motivation Work-style reform Human capital development Health management 43 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2019 Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements Environment Customer Satisfaction Responsible Supply Chain Human Capital Diversity and Product Safety Key Action 1 Work-Style Reform Background and Issues Vision Key Measures Konica Minolta recognizes that it Konica Minolta is moving forward ● Preparing operational and must utilize the full potential of with work-style reform in many workplace environments its employees to transform itself areas, including operational ● Making the most of diverse into a digital company with processes, human capital utilizatalent insight into implicit challenges, a tion, roles and authority, systems, ● Reforming operational goal laid out in the Medium Term and environmental measures. In so processes Business Plan. Konica Minolta doing, the company is seeking to understands the need for improve the job satisfaction of every work-style reform that allows all employee as well as overall employees to demonstrate their productivity. In a business environfull potential. ment where unprecedented changes continue to occur, Konica Minolta will continue to promote the creativity and innovation that is the source of competitiveness. Main Initiatives in Fiscal 2018 Developing an Environment where behave creatively. Konica Minolta reviewed the convenEveryone Can Live Up to Their Potential tional dress code and replaced it with a policy which asks Employees today engage in diverse work styles, and Konica each person to dress appropriately for the time, place, and Minolta, Inc. is developing an environment and system that occasion based on their own judgement and self-awareallows all employees to demonstrate their full potential. ness as a professional. ■ Location-Free Work Style Since fiscal 2017, the company has operated a remote Supporting Work-Life Balance working system that allows employees to work from Konica Minolta, Inc. is working to build an environment locations other than the office. This increases productivity, where employees who are raising children can continue to efficiency and creativity by enabling employees to work work confidently and build their careers. The company has without being tied to a single location. traditionally been an active supporter of work-life balance, Konica Minolta has also established a network of offering programs such as the childcare leave system (after satellite offices to enable employees to work efficiently which the rate of employees returning to work is steady at while on business trips. 100%) and a shorter working hours system. In fiscal 2018, the company introduced a new hourly ■ Permitting Employees to Pursue a Second Job or leave system that allows leave to be taken in one-hour Work Concurrently units. This innovation was in response to the desire of In December 2017, the company lifted its ban on employemployees raising children to make the most of their ees pursuing a second job or working concurrently to limited time at work. promote employee growth and diversify values and ways of Konica Minolta, Inc. has received a Platinum Kurumin thinking in the workforce. In little over a year, around 30 certification and the Eruboshi certification mark from people started their own business or utilized their expertise Japanʼs Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare. These to venture into a new field. It is expected that the many certifications identify Konica Minolta valuable experiences they are gaining outside the company as a top-tier company in the provision will spark innovation within Konica Minolta. of child-rearing support. ■ Liberalizing the Office Dress Code In October 2018, the company liberalized the office dress code to foster a culture where employees can think and 44 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2019 Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements Environment Customer Satisfaction Responsible Supply Chain Human Capital Diversity and Product Safety Key Action 2 Developing Human Capital Background and Issues Vision Key Measures Nowadays, companies the world To create innovative value, every ● Expanding the pool of over are competing to create new person has to let their individualihigh-potential human services by leveraging big data ty shine and professionals holding resources and accelerating with AI and ICT technologies. diverse views must engage in their development Konica Minolta, too, is aiming to uninhibited discussions. ● Increasing employee become a digital company with The companyʼs human engagement based on results insight into implicit challenges, resources development vision is of the Global Employee Survey the key to which is the transforto empower people who can drive (GES) mation of human capital. reform, feel a strong sense of ● Developing talent capable of The company recognizes ownership and complete projects establishing profitable IoT that it must first accurately to the end. Other highly prized business models ascertain the needs of customers qualities include ingenuity, the and society. Then, based on ability to engage partners, and the those needs, it must systematiability to create customer value. cally and continuously develop Konica Minolta wants to develop the professionals that can create “business athletes” who can and provide the kind of innovacompete globally. This transfortive value that is unique to mation of individuals will drive the Konica Minolta. transformation of the company. Main Initiatives in Fiscal 2018 Executive Development Program At Konica Minolta, the aim is to foster “true management executives” who can promote creative destruction and succeed globally. This is why, in cooperation with a business school, the business leader education program (called “Global e-Juku”) is implemented for executive candidates, including those from Group companies globally. In the fiscal 2018 program, there were 16 participants from seven companies in six countries. In conversations with leading executives within and outside of the company, the participants gained an appreciation for what it takes to become a true management executive and expanded their Discussing a project proposal outlook. Discussing digital transformation and other topics, they also tried forecasting the highly unpredictable future business environment, and worked on project proposals for Konica Minoltaʼs transformation to become a digital company with insight into implicit challenges. 45 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2019 Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements Environment Customer Satisfaction Responsible Supply Chain Human Capital Diversity and Product Safety Global Assignment Program for Business Producer Training Program Early Career Talent Konica Minolta has implemented a program to develop Konica Minolta, Inc. has a short-term training program that business producers who can drive strong growth, starting allows early-career employees to go abroad to learn on the in the early stage of their careers. This program, called the business frontlines and at world-class business schools. By Challenge Gijutsusha Forum (CGF), is offered to select practicing leadership, engaging in cooperative learning, employees who are motivated to solve social challenges by and being exposed to diverse values, these employees creating new value. In fiscal 2018, 20 employees participated. improve and expand their outlook, which helps them to The program participants follow a development curricsucceed on the global stage. In fiscal 2018, 31 employees ulum as they study and work together at creating new participated in the program. businesses. The curriculum is devised by a governing board Group companies outside of Japan also have programs made up of members chosen from various fields who have a that allow their employees to experience operations at passion for human resource development. As such, this group companies in other countries, including Japan, for a program also plays a major role as a forum for interaction period of time from several months to two or three years. By and diligent study that goes beyond the workplace and that providing program participants with an opportunity to crosses areas of expertise and generations. learn about Japanese business customs and culture and experience the difference, the program helps to develop employees who can serve as bridges between Japan and countries worldwide. Brainstorming new business ideas Short-term overseas training program participants and host country employees System to Develop and Certify ICT Personnel Close Up Konica Minolta has implemented an internal training program to develop ICT personnel who can leverage IT and Good Career Company digital technologies to provide added value from the customAwards 2018 Grand Prize erʼs perspective. The ICT Personnel Skills Certification System has been put in place to certify and register skill Konica Minolta, Inc. received the Grand Prize in the levels, from beginner to expert, based on the companyʼs Good Career Company Awards 2018 presented by definitions of human capital, such as Data Scientist.*1 A Japanʼs Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare. training curriculum has been developed at each level. In The Good Career Company Awards honor fiscal 2018, 254 employees were certified and registered as companies who can serve as a model for others Data Scientists and 168 as KM Product Owners.*2 with regard to supporting employeesʼ self-directed *1 Data Scientist: Personnel who can identify decision-making and workflow career formation. The purpose is to publicize the issues by reviewing various types of data and then establish solutions importance of career formation support and to see *2 KM (Konica Minolta) Product Owner: Personnel well versed in both business and software technology who can maximize return on investment it take hold by broadly disseminating the philosin software development ophies, initiatives and concrete results of awardwinning companies. At Konica Minolta, employees make efforts to achieve their own self-directed career visions in line with the needs of the times, backed by the full support of supervisors and the company. By awarding the Grand Prize to Konica Minolta, the judges formally recognized the achievements of steady efforts by employees, their supervisors, and the company working together. 46 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2019 Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements Environment Customer Satisfaction Responsible Supply Chain Human Capital Diversity and Product Safety Key Action 3 Occupational Safety and Health Background and Issues Vision Key Measures and KPIs Workplace accidents put employKonica Minolta believes that the ● Serious accidents*1: 0 ee safety at risk. They can also foundation of corporate manage● Frequency rate of accidents affect the neighboring environment lies in the maintenance and causing absence from work*2: ment, and if serious enough, they promotion of workplace safety and 0.1 or less (FY2017–2019) can threaten business continuity. health for every employee. The *1 Serious accidents: (1) Death, disease requiring a long recovery period (or the possibility thereof), Konica Minolta recognizes that company aims to build a healthy, an injury resulting in a disability (or the possibility thereof), or a specific contagious disease; (2) preventing workplace accidents safe and supportive workplace an accident resulting in the death or injury of three or more workers during work at one point and creating workplaces where environment by implementing or the contraction of a disease (including accidents not accompanied by lost worktime) employees can work safely and occupational safety and health *2 Frequency rate of accidents causing absence confidently is a critical manageinitiatives that emphasize daily from work: The number of persons absent from work per one million total actual working hours ment issue. preventive actions. for current employees Main Initiatives in Fiscal 2018 Preventing Occupational Accidents Under the direct supervision of senior management, Konica fiscal year. The Group attributes this to poor preparation of Minolta has been implementing various measures to prevention measures tailored to the different kinds of prevent occupational accidents worldwide. The persons accidents as well as time lags between initial response, responsible for safety and health promotion in each rollout of measures, and the appearance of results. In fiscal business division and the Safety and Health Committee 2019, Konica Minolta will make improvements with a focus chairpersons at each business site work together to build on rapidly implementing more effective safety measures. the management structure. *Unsafety Marks: Numerical values obtained by weighting and assigning points based on the type of accidents that occur in a workplace and the severity In fiscal 2018, “Unsafety Marks,”* which were of injuries introduced in the previous fiscal year as a new safety management indicator unique to Konica Minolta, were Accidents Causing Absence from Work at Sites in Japan entrenched as a safety management system. Analyses (No.) Number of employees taking leave from work (Frequency rate) based on Unsafety Marks make the safety management 15 Frequency rate 0.75 characteristics and issues at each business unit or site easy to see, enabling implementation of effective safety 10 0.50 measures. This helps prevent accidents from recurring. 7 8 6 7 Meanwhile, comprehensive risk management, which 5 0.28 0.23 4 0.25 0.25 the company implemented in fiscal 2016, continued and 0.22 was enhanced. This put under management new risks that 0 0.13 0.00 came with business changes. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) More than half of accidents resulting in absence from Note: Figures are for employees of Konica Minolta Group Japan, including those dispatched from an agency. work are caused by inattention, including falls. As a countermeasure to this, monthly training to raise the safety Accidents Causing Absence from Work at Sites outside Japan awareness of some 12,000 employees of Konica Minolta, (No.) Number of employees taking leave from work (Frequency rate) Inc. and Group companies in Japan is provided via e-Learning. 15 Frequency rate 0.75 Roughly 90% of employees took the training. Training on 12 working safely is also conducted, including prevention of 10 0.50 0.44 fires and explosions and prevention of forklift accidents. 6 6 In fiscal 2018, there was one serious accident in which 5 0.21 5 0.20 5 0.20 0.25 a service technician was injured while performing mainte0.19 nance work. The frequency rate of accidents causing 0 0.00 absence from work was 0.25 in Japan, and 0.20 elsewhere. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) Efforts were made to reduce Unsafety Marks by 40% Note: Figures are for employees of major manufacturing companies in China and Malaysia, including those dispatched from an agency, for fiscal 2014. compared to the group-wide average for fiscal years 2014 Employees of Group companies in China and manufacturing companies in to 2016, but the level remained the same as the previous Malaysia, including those dispatched from an agency, since fiscal 2015. 47 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2019 Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements Environment Customer Satisfaction Responsible Supply Chain Human Capital Diversity and Product Safety Key Action 4 Improving Employee Health Background and Issues Vision Key Measures and KPIs As a result of the aging of the Based on the understanding that Promoting health management workforce due to a declining employee health is the founda● Curbing the number of birthrate, contemporary Japanese tion for everything else, Konica absences due to illness society is witnessing a rising risk of Minolta strives to create ● Reducing the number of lifestyle diseases and an increase in workplaces where all employees employees with health risks: the number of people taking leaves enjoy good physical and mental People with high physical of absence from work due to mental health and can continue to work health risk: Down by 4.5% from fiscal 2017 health problems. Konica Minolta with vitality. It does this by Persons needing specified management gives high priority to fostering a “health-first” culture health guidance (persons supporting employeesʼ efforts to lead and practicing sound safety and needing active support): physically and mentally healthy lives. health management. Down 3% from fiscal 2017 Main Initiatives in Fiscal 2018 Reducing the Number of Employees with Health Risks Konica Minolta diligently practices health management to encourages employees to improve their lifestyle habits by strengthen its talent pool, which is vital to achieving its showing each person a comparison of the average incidence management strategy. Under the three-year medium-term of cardiovascular disease, stroke, and ischemic heart disease health plan, Health Challenge 2019, Group companies in within 10 years of their age grosup. This system can also be Japan and the Health Insurance Association work together accessed by employee spouses who are health insurance to plan and implement various measures. They categorize dependents. The company also actively holds health those with health risks by physical and mental health, and improvement events such as those where employees can set numerical targets with the aim of reducing the number measure their BMI, blood vessel age, lung age, and other of people in each category. health indicators. Walking rallies, smoking cessation days For physical health management, Konica Minolta is and other activities are also promoted to employees. focusing on preventing the development of serious illness for all As a result of these activities, each health indicator is on Group employees in Japan. As a result of guidance from occupaan improvement trend. In particular, the smoking rate for tional health staff and stronger encouragement of check-ups, in the Konica Minolta Group in Japan was 26.1% in fiscal 2018, fiscal 2018 there was a 24% decrease in the number of employa 3.1% decrease compared to fiscal 2014. ees with critical health risks, compared to the previous year. As part of mental health management, stress checks are conducted twice a year for all employees. While allowing Close Up employees to utilize their results for self-care, the company also analyzes the results for each workplace and shares the information with organizational heads. Improvement measures are Recognition as an Outstanding then devised and implemented for workplaces with high stress Health & Productivity Stock levels. In order to strengthen the line care function, mental health e-Learning modules are also provided to managers As part of the 2019 Health & Productivity Stock across the Group, with the aim of early detection and prompt Selection program, Konica Minolta, Inc. was selected response for individuals with mental illness. The completion as an outstanding company in the electrical equiprate for these modules remains around 95%. As a result, the ment industry in 2015, 2016, 2018 and 2019. This number of Group employees in Japan absent for mental health program is promoted jointly by Japanʼs Ministry of reasons decreased by 24% in fiscal 2017 compared to the Economy, Trade and Industry and the Tokyo Stock previous fiscal year, and that level was maintained in fiscal 2018. Exchange. In addition, 12 Konica Minolta Group companies in Japan were chosen for the 2019 Certified Working to Promote Wellbeing by Health & Productivity Management Outstanding Visualizing Employee Health Statistics Organizations Recognition Program, also organized Konica Minolta estimates its future disease risks from by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. employeesʼ latest medical examination results. The company 48 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2019 Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements Environment Customer Satisfaction Responsible Supply Chain Human Capital Diversity and Product Safety Material Issue Diversity Related SDGs Our Concept Making the Most of Employee Diversity to Create New Value One of Konica Minoltaʼs strengths as a global company is directly under the president. In April 2019, its name was that employees of different national origins, races, beliefs, changed to the Corporate Diversity & Inclusion Office, cultures, languages, genders, ages and expertise work reflecting Konica Minoltaʼs determination to be inclusive of together in regions all over the world. It is this diversity that diverse individual personalities and to bring everyone leads to innovative thinking and original ideas, thus genertogether to drive innovation. ating new value that helps provide solutions for customers The Corporate Diversity & Inclusion Office is striving to and society. ensure a deep understanding of diversity and inclusion This kind of value creation embodies the concept of among employees, and since fiscal 2016, it has been “Inclusive and Collaborative,” one of the six values that working to support the success of Konica Minoltaʼs female makes up the Konica Minolta Philosophy. This value refers employees. The office also continues to work with various to the power and collaboration generated by embracing departments to promote the participation of international our workforceʼs diverse backgrounds and ideas. employees and people with disabilities by creating an Konica Minolta, Inc. focuses on respect for diversity organizational culture that respects not only diversity in and inclusion to pursue these principles and create new attributes, such as gender and nationality, but also diversity value for customers and society while driving the compain values and views of life. This will enable each employee to nyʼs own advancement. To facilitate these efforts, in fiscal show their capabilities and generate innovation through 2017 the company established a Corporate Diversity Office the interaction of diverse perspectives. 2021 Generate creativity and innovation Act/embody 2019 Apply 2018 Transform diversity Improve understanding into a strength 2017 Raise Diverse Full inclusion awareness individual expression Increased diversity Organizational homogeneity 49 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2019 Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements Environment Customer Satisfaction Responsible Supply Chain Human Capital Diversity and Product Safety Key Action 1 Supporting Womenʼs Career Advancement Background and Issues Vision Key Measures and KPIs Gender equality and womenʼs Konica Minolta believes that ● Fostering awareness and a culture empowerment are key issues for employee diversity is a source of supportive of diversity, with the global community, and they growth. The company takes a focus on promoting are also vital to achieving the measures to create an environparticipation by women SDGs. In Japan, however, despite ment where women can perform ● Consider ways of supporting life the fact that both men and to their full potential. In order to events affecting both men and women are generally highly accelerate the success of its women, such as childbirth, educated, the reality is that female employees, Konica child-rearing and caretaking, women still face barriers when it Minolta does not limit itself to and consider work styles comes to leadership and simply ensuring that they can tailored to these life events participation across the board. keep working through various ● Appointing female managers Konica Minolta recognizes the life events, but also aims to (target for fiscal 2019: Women urgent need to develop an expand their access to any hold 7% of all management environment that facilitates career path they want to pursue. positions) womenʼs success in its industry. ● Raising the percentage of women among new graduate hires (target for fiscal 2019: 30% or more) Main Initiatives in Fiscal 2018 Support for the Advancement of Women Konica Minolta, Inc. runs a wide range of programs to accelerhas its first female executive ate the success of its female employees. officer. As a result of its ongoing In fiscal 2018, the company implemented its second efforts and targets achieved so two-year action plan based on Japanʼs Act on Promotion of far under this Japanese law, the Womenʼs Participation and Advancement in the Workplace. company received Eruboshi Women hold 6.2% of management positions and the status, the highest level of related percentage has been rising gradually every year. The certification from the Ministry of company will make further efforts to achieve its target for Health, Labour and Welfare. Eruboshi certification mark the end of fiscal 2019. Moreover, Konica Minolta, Inc. now (obtained in 2016) Action Plan Number and Percentage of Female Managers at Konica Minolta, Inc. (as of April of each year) Plan duration April 1, 2018–March 31, 2020 (No.) Number of female managers (%) 90 Percentage of female managers 9 Numerical 7% of management positions held by 80 targets women 72 7.0 ● Selective training of manager 60 61 6 candidates in Performance Grade 3 6.2 ● Selection of targets in spring evaluation 49 5.5 Description and rolling 4.4 of initiatives ● Establishment of training plan (support for each division and staff) 30 3.4 3 ● Off-JT programs offered (career plan training) Timing of Implemented as needed from 2018 spring 0 0 initiatives evaluation 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (Year) (target) 50 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2019 Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements Environment Customer Satisfaction Responsible Supply Chain Human Capital Diversity and Product Safety Programs to Promote Awareness and growth. A management workshop was also held for the a Corporate Culture of Diversity immediate supervisors of these female staff. The purpose was Konica Minolta, Inc. promotes the advancement of women to enhance the ability of these managers to provide career and also holds lectures and workshops to help each employsupport to their subordinates based on an understanding of ee recognize the importance of diversity and inclusion. the need for diversity in human resource development. These two workshops were jointly planned, and by ■ Lecture for Senior Management having women and their direct supervisors attend In order to promote a deep understanding of diversity and workshops around the same time, both groups were able to inclusion among executive management, the company share an approach for career formation and an understandbegan regularly inviting outside experts to deliver lectures in ing of the issues, while enhancing their commitment. The fiscal 2017. In fiscal 2018, an executive of a major firm known companyʼs three-year initiative to hold these workshops for for its advanced initiatives was invited to give a lecture, which women and their direct supervisors began in fiscal 2017. In was attended by officers and division general managers. the first two years through the end of fiscal 2018, at least 250 employees and managers participated. ■ Diversity Workshop for Senior Managers Workshops were held for those in senior manager positions ■ Diversity Advocates and above, allowing them to deepen their understanding of In fiscal 2018, employee volunteers signed up to be diversity the importance of diversity and preparing them to further advocates and began taking the initiative to promote develop employees in their own organizations. Around 300 diversity at the frontlines in each region. Asking themselves, senior managers participated in a total of 12 sessions from “What changes can we ourselves create,” these advocates fiscal 2017 through fiscal 2018. At the end of each think about challenges in the status quo and implement workshop, the participants pledged to promote diversity in solutions. In the introductory year, two advocate teams were their own departments. formed̶in eastern and western Japan̶gathering diverse members of different ages, genders, and nationalities. Each ■ Workshops for Female Staff and Managers member has her or his own awareness of the issue ̶from A career planning workshop was held to encourage individuexperience raising children, to caring for family members, to al women to better appreciate their own value and strengths status as a non-Japanese employee. Members carry out in action, to acquire skills and abilities for developing their activities while engaging in lively dialogues. own career plans, and to find a path toward ongoing personal Close Up Company-Wide differences in peopleʼs outlook on life and their values. It also prompted them to think about how to turn that Diversity Promotion Program diversity into strength. In fiscal 2017, Konica Minolta, Inc. held an International Womenʼs Day. From January to March 2019, the company built upon this through a company-wide program, “Turning Diversity into a Strength! 2018,” where a total of 1,000 employees participated. Under the overall theme of “Respect (Understanding and Accepting Each Otherʼs Differences),” workshops, panel discussions, and lectures were given on 18 occasions at six sites. Additionally, a special lecture was given and shared with 15 company sites in Japan via video conferencing. Lecture by astronaut Takao Doi (standing, left) It was an opportunity for each participant to consider differences due to gender, age and position as well as 51 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2019 Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements Environment Customer Satisfaction Responsible Supply Chain Human Capital Diversity and Product Safety Key Action 2 Utilizing Employee Experiences Gained Outside the Company and Abroad Background and Issues Vision Key Measures In order to connect the promoKonica Minolta actively hires ● Actively recruiting mid-career tion of diversity to the creation of people in mid-career and people human resources and personnel innovation, it is important to from outside of Japan. In addition, from outside of Japan build a team of employees with employees are encouraged to gain ● Providing opportunities to gain diversity in nationality, race, broad experience and knowledge experience and knowledge gender, age, and expertise, outside the company and venues outside of the company while also having individual are provided for diversely talented ● Promoting exchanges among employees with diverse experiindividuals to share ideas. employees globally and ences and perspectives. Konica By generating innovation providing venues for creating Minolta believes in generating with these measures, the innovation where diverse innovation by ensuring that company aims to meet the needs employees can inspire and learn diverse employees share ideas of its global customers and to from each other based on different perspectives. create new value that goes beyond existing concepts. Main Initiatives in Fiscal 2018 Assignment of Non-Japanese Talent Provision of Innovation Creation Places and Mid-Career Hires in Japan Konica Minolta, Inc. aims to encourage interaction between Konica Minolta, Inc. actively hires mid-career employees to employees across the companyʼs internal organizational help create innovation in Japan. The company is striving to boundaries, and to provide places for innovation creation secure the diversity of its human resources by also recruitwhere employees can inspire and learn from each other. ing non-Japanese new university graduates, as well as Accordingly, since April 2017, employees have been allowed Japanese graduates with experience living abroad. to use company facilities, such as cafeterias, as venues for human resource exchanges. In addition, in order to encourage employee-led Percentage of Percentage of personnel exchanges, assistance is provided to cover non-Japanese mid-career hires nationals among among total expenses, based on proposals submitted to the Human new hires recruitment Resources Department. 19% (who joined the company 53% (FY2018) in April 2019) Assignment of Employees with Experience and Knowledge from Outside of the Company In fiscal 2017, Konica Minolta, Inc. began allowing employees to take on a second job or outside project, while also introducing a Job Return System and launching an overseas dispatch program for young employees. Through these initiatives, the Human resource exchange event organized by employees company seeks to further enhance its diversity, by strengthening individual diversity and increasing the number of human resources with diverse experience and knowledge. 52 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2019 Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements Environment Customer Satisfaction Responsible Supply Chain Human Capital Diversity and Product Safety Employment of Persons with Disabilities Supporting Employment of Persons with Disabilities at Special Subsidiary Konica Minolta With You, Inc. In September 2013, Konica Minolta established the special subsidiary Konica Minolta With You, Inc. to support the independence of persons with disabilities through employment. The “With You” in the company name expresses the intention that the company is not just doing something for persons with disabilities but rather that it works with them to enhance their participation in society. Through this subsidiary, Konica Minolta is pursuing the social independence and mainstreaming of persons with disabilities. Konica Minolta With You supports career formation Printing business cards and pamphlets in light of each employeeʼs aptitude and aspirations, based on an original career promotion program, so that each person can work enthusiastically and attain steady growth along the way. Employees engage in a variety of duties including printing business cards and pamphlets, serving customers at a coffee shop on site, and designing and tending to flowerbeds. Collection and delivery of postal mail and business cards began as a new initiative in fiscal 2018. To make itself and its employeesʼ activities more widely known, the company started selling bottled preserved flowers, Customer service at a coffee shop on site made from the flowers its employees grow, and holding workshops in and outside the company on how to make them. The workshops emphasize customer interaction, as employees give the explanations themselves. Bottled preserved flowers made from flowers that employees grow 53 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2019 Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements Essential Requirements to Fulfill CSR Corporate Governance Corporate Governance System Specifically, the Board of Directors and the three Konica Minolta, Inc. has established a corporate governance committees are structured as shown in the figure below. framework from the standpoint of supervision. This is based on the conviction that corporate governance that contributes to mediumand long-term corporate value growth Building a Risk Management System must encourage suitable risk-taking in business operations The executive officers are responsible for managing various and have a highly effective supervisory function for business risks including strategic risks, financial risks, risks pertinent operations. In 2003, the “company with committees” to environmental regulations and hazard risks. They identistructure (currently “company with three committees”) was fy and evaluate risks and develop and monitor countermeaselected as the organizational structure in accordance with sures in their respective spheres of management. Japanʼs Companies Act. In addition, the company has taken In addition, the Risk Management Committee, chaired steps to ensure its governance system is objective and not by an executive officer appointed by the Board of Directors, overly influenced by personalities, while still operating the is convened periodically. The Committee examines the risks system in a distinctive Konica Minolta style. identified by each executive officer, as well as the counterThe companyʼs basic views with regard to its govermeasures in place, and checks to ensure that the risk nance system are as follows. management system is functioning effectively, making • Ensuring management oversight for corporate value growth by revisions where necessary. The Group responds as a whole separating the roles of management oversight and operation of to risks judged to be particularly important, led by an business activities executive officer appointed by the chairman. The activities • Election of independent Outside Directors who can perform of the Risk Management Committee are periodically reportsupervision from the standpoint of shareholders ed to the Audit Committee. • Using these measures for improving the transparency, integrity and efficiency of management Structure of Corporate Governance Systems (As of June 18, 2019) General Meeting of Shareholders Election & termination Key characteristics of structure Reporting & Election & proposals termination Reporting •Setting the company with three Accounting Auditor Board of Directors Election & committees structure to separate termination supervision and the execution of (management Board of Directors Nominating Committee supervisory the management and perform function) Reporting Compensation Committee highly effective oversight of Reporting & Election & business operations proposals termination Audit Audit Committee Delegation Supervision Key characteristics of the Board of Directors Executive Officers (business execution function) Audit •Chairman is not an Executive Officer •Outside Directors are at least one-third of the Board of Directors Board of Directors and Three Committees •All Outside Directors are Independent Directors Board of Directors Nominating Committee •Directors who are not concurrently 8 NonF E G H A Executive Officers are the majority Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors Officers A B C D E F G H Chairman Compensation of the Board Directors Outside Directors Committee Key characteristics of D G H B C the three committees 4 Concurrently Chairman serving as I J K L •Chairmen are Outside Directors Executive Audit Officers Director and Director and Committee •Directors who are concurrently Representative Senior Executive E D F H B C Executive Officers are not allowed Executive Officer Officers Chairman to be committee members 54 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2019 Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements Compliance Compliance Promotion System Konica Minolta considers compliance to be the highest Minolta Charter of Corporate Behavior, provides specific priority of all corporate activities. The Groupʼs pursuit of expectations for behavior regarding compliance with compliance with corporate ethics, internal rules and adherantitrust laws, the prohibition of extortion gifts and enterence to all applicable laws is based on the Konica Minolta tainment, the prohibition of soliciting or accepting bribes, Group Charter of Corporate Behavior, which sets conduct and a ban on any contact with organized criminal elements. guidelines for the entire Group. Every year, the Konica Minolta Group prioritizes The Chief Compliance Officer, who is appointed by the compliance with antitrust laws and preventing corruption Board of Directors, is responsible for promoting and in its annually renewed compliance promotion plan, overseeing compliance throughout the Group. The Chief considering the expectations of society, the degree of Compliance Officer appoints regional compliance coordiimpact on the company and society and the possibility of nators in Europe, North America, China, and Southeast Asia occurrence. In fiscal 2018, the Group used a global compliand supports the promotion of their compliance activities, ance promotion system to continue to educate its personwhich are carried out in accordance with local laws and nel on these two priority issues, in line with local laws, regulations. Moreover, Internal Hotline Systems (Helplines) business environments, and customary practices. The have been set up in those regions so that employees can compliance issues, risks, and progress of education in each report and consult about compliance violations. region are regularly reported to the Chief Compliance In fiscal 2018, all employees were asked to sign a compliOfficer via compliance reports. ance pledge as a new measure to further encourage underIn fiscal 2018, the anti-corruption guidelines for standing of and adherence to Konica Minoltaʼs compliance personnel in Japan were revised in response to changes in programs. The submission rate in Japan was 99.9%. public expectations, and efforts were made to ensure that the new guidelines are thoroughly understood by employCompliance with Antitrust Laws and ees. In fiscal 2019, new guidelines will be prepared for personnel in other countries and regions, in accordance Anti-Corruption Initiatives with their respective laws and cultures. The Konica Minolta Group Guidance for the Charter of There were no incidents of anti-trust law violations, Corporate Behavior, a guide for implementing the Konica bribery or corruption in fiscal 2018. Information Security Information Security Management Protecting Personal Information of Customers Konica Minolta understands that information security is the Konica Minolta takes full precautions to protect the personmost important issue related to the effective use of informaal information of customers. Konica Minolta has established tion and IT. Konica Minolta has established an IT security the Global Personal Data Protection Policy and regulations management system at Group companies worldwide and for protection of the personal data of the Konica Minolta continuously improves IT security levels under the leaderGroup, which address the EUʼs General Data Protection ship of the President and CEO of Konica Minolta, Inc. and the Regulation (GDPR). In accordance with this policy and chief IT security officer, who is responsible for IT planning rules, the Group has established a worldwide system for and administrative organization at Konica Minolta, Inc. protecting personal information and properly manages the Senior management at Konica Minolta recognizes the personal information in its possession. Employees are also growing threat of cyberattacks today and understands the kept up-to-date on the policy and rules through e-Learning importance of taking steps to combat the issue, as and other methods of training. highlighted by the Cybersecurity Management Guidelines In the event that a leakage of information, including from the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry of Japan. personal information held by Konica Minolta, is confirmed or Konica Minolta has implemented global IT security liable to have occurred, the information security management measures such as the establishment of a Computer Security system would deliver an event/incident report to the PersonIncident Response Team (KM-CSIRT). al Information Protection Officer. The Officer would immediately check the facts and degree of impact and submit a report to the Personal Information Protection Commission in Japan and other appropriate authorities in each country. In fiscal 2018, there were no problems with leaks, thefts or losses of personal information. 55 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2019 Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements Human Rights Basic Concepts Human Rights Initiatives Related to Human rights are universally valued rights that all people Group Employees are born with. In todayʼs world, there is a growing awareKonica Minolta is promoting human rights-related initiatives ness that businesses can have a great impact on human such as the prohibition of any kind of discrimination and rights. In order for a company to remain vital to society, it harassment based on race, nationality, gender, gender must recognize the diverse expectations of society and identity/sexual orientation, religion, belief, or physical provide solutions through its business activities. As a disability. In addition, Konica Minolta, Inc. and group company with a globally growing business, Konica Minolta companies in Japan implement the PDCA cycle regarding views respect for human rights as one of the basic conditheir employees, according to a process of annual risk tions for its business activities. This aligns with the compaassessment and appropriate corrective actions based on nyʼs goal of contributing to a sustainable society in which compliance with laws and regulations related to labor human rights are respected. (human rights). Going forward, Konica Minolta will considIn line with social expectations, Konica Minolta has for er establishing a risk assessment and corrective action years been working diligently to address various human system for Group employees outside Japan as well. rights issues related to its business activities, including human rights respect in the supply chain, employee-related initiatives such as prohibition of discrimination and harassment, and the protection of customersʼ and employeesʼ Konica Minolta Sales Honored personal information. In 2011, the UN Human Rights Counwith Human Rights Award cil endorsed the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, calling on companies to do more to address The Australian Human Rights Commission honored human rights issues. In response, Konica Minolta identified Konica Minolta Business Solutions Australia Pty. potential adverse human rights impacts thought to be Ltd. with a Business Award at the Human Rights relevant to its business activities, including its existing Awards 2018. This award recognizes companies human rights-related initiatives. that take practical steps to promote and protect Looking ahead, Konica Minolta will expand its current human rights and freedom in Australia. human rights-related initiatives by ensuring that they continue to meet social expectations. It also plans to give greater shape to its programs by improving its efforts as needed through stakeholder engagement, including the broader participation of relevant persons within the company. Potential adverse human rights impacts • Group employeesʼ human rights: Working hours, wages and benefits, harassment, discrimination, health and safety, protection of privacy • Human rights in the supply chain: Forced labor, child labor, wages and benefits, harassment, discrimination, freedom of association, Human Rights Awards 2018 Ceremony health and safety Left: David Cooke, Managing Director, Konica Minolta • Customersʼ human rights: Business Solutions Australia Protection of personal information Center: Suzie Brett, Director of Legal and Compliance, People & Culture and IT, Konica Minolta Business Solutions Australia Human Rights Initiatives in the Supply Chain Right: Rosalind Croucher, AM, Emeritus Professor, President of the Australian Human Rights Commission Konica Minolta aims to help build a more sustainable world, Photo by Matthew Syres where all people are respected. Toward that end, the Group works at CSR procurement (responsible procurement in the supply chain), in order to facilitate appropriate improvements in labor (human rights) as well as ethics, health, safety, and the environment. These efforts are undertaken not only at the Groupʼs production sites but also at the suppliers from which the Group sources raw materials, parts, and other materials, and to which it contracts production and distribution services. 56 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2019 Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements Social Contribution Activities Konica Minolta Basic Policy on Social Contribution Activities As a responsible, global corporate citizen, Konica Minolta makes group-wide efforts to address social issues that it can contribute to through its businesses in order to be an entity that is essential to society. It is also committed to contributing to the creation of a sustainable society by continually engaging in activities that meet local challenges in the various countries where it operates. Konica Minolta aims to ensure open communication with a wide range of stakeholders, particularly in the three fields the local communities where it operates around the world of environment, healthcare and sports, and academics, and strives to earn their trust. With this aspiration, the research and education, which are set out in the Konica Group aims to contribute to the achievement of SDGs and Minolta Basic Policy on Social Contribution Activities. the creation of a sustainable society, working together with Main Initiatives in Fiscal 2018 Protecting the Natural Environment Promoting Community Health and Well-being Participating in a Marathon Related SDGs Supporting NGO Activities That Related SDGs Event That Supports Aid Patients with Reforestation Intractable Diseases The “Green Marathon” held in Rennes, France, contributes to Konica Minolta supports the activities of NGOs by promotthe greening of the world through tree-planting projects, by ing employee participation in charity runs and walks, planting new trees based on the total distance run. Konica seeking to help patients with diseases including cancer and Minolta Business Solutions France S.A.S. has been supportheart disease. In fiscal 2018, employees participated in ing this event since fiscal charity runs and walks held around the world, including in 2011 and the number of the US, Europe, Japan, and other parts of Asia. trees planted as of the fiscal 2018 event was 724,000. In fiscal 2018, Supporting Scholarships, Research, and Education about 160 people particiCollaborating in Science Related SDGs pated, including Konica Minolta employees and Education by Sending business partners. Employees and business partners Guest Lecturers who participated in the marathon Annually since fiscal 2012, Konica Minolta, Inc. has been sending newly hired employees to serve as guest lecturers at Supporting Scholarships, Research, and Education schools. As of March 31, 2018, a total of 710 newly hired Helping Young People Related SDGs employees had offered guest lectures at 49 different schools, reaching a total of 4,228 students. In fiscal 2018, employees Form Careers served as guest lecturers for 688 students at seven junior high and high In cooperation with a local vocational training institute, schools in Tokyo, Aichi, and Konica Minolta Business Solutions India Private Ltd. has Osaka Prefectures in Japan. been conducting skills development programs for young Konica Minolta, Inc. won people from under-resourced families since 2016. the Platinum Award at the Program participants receive basic training in a wide Education Support Grand Learning about copier functions range of subjects including English, electronic engineering, Prix 2018 for this initiative. using a manual copier machinery, and multi-functional peripherals services over a two-month period. This program supports young people facing a shortage of jobs, which has become a challenge for new graduates in India in recent years. 57 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2019 Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements Environmental Data Summary Overall View of Environmental Impacts Resulting from Business Activities INPUT Konica Minolta OUTPUT Resources Petroleum-based resources (52.4 kt) Non-petroleum-based resources Procurement Atmosphere CO 2 emissions (437.0 kt-CO 2) ★ (70.7 kt) Atmosphere CO 2 emissions (272.6 kt-CO 2) ★ SOx (0 t) NOx (77.2 t) Energy Electricity (309 million kWh) ★ Soot and dust (0.4 t) Of which, renewable electricity (4.7 million kWh) Discharged Total water discharged Of which, amount purchased Production/ water (2,922 thousand m3) (2.1 million kWh) COD (0.6 t) Fossil fuels (2,426 TJ) ★ Research Phosphorous (0.1 t) and Nitrogen (2.8 t) Water Total water withdrawal development (3,496 thousand m3) ★ Waste Total waste (22.6 kt) Water recycled/reused Waste reduced internally (0.4 kt) (16.0 thousand m3) Waste discharged externally (16.3 kt) ★ Amount recycled (21.9 kt) Resources Amount recycled internally (5.8 kt) Final disposal (57.0 t) Chemical Atmospheric emissions of Substances VOCs (197 t) ★ Energy Fossil fuels (364.5 TJ) ★ Distribution Atmosphere CO 2 emissions (26.4 kt-CO 2) ★ Resources Packaging materials usage (26.0 kt) Energy Electricity (87.5 million kWh) ★ Atmosphere CO 2 emissions (offices) (46.8 kt-CO 2) ★ Sales and CO 2 emissions (vehicles) (47.2 kt-CO 2) ★ Fossil fuels (offices) (61.1 TJ) ★ Fossil fuels (vehicles) (697.3 TJ) ★ service* Waste Waste discharged externally (3.7 kt) Energy Electricity (420.9 million kWh) ★ Usage Atmosphere CO 2 emissions (211.3 kt-CO 2) ★ Resources Product recovered and Resources Product recovery (17.9 kt) Recovery (product recycled (17.7 kt) recovery) * Boundary: All consolidated sales companies worldwide Product Lifecycle CO2 Emissions★ Product use Sales and service (offices and vehicles) Distribution Production Procurement (kt-CO2) 1,200 1,104 1,081 1,046 1,038 1,041 900 376 404 395 417 437 600 312 307 298 282 273 34 300 87 27 32 28 85 26 86 92 94 296 258 235 220 211 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) Note: Figures do not necessarily add precisely to the total due to rounding. ★: Indicators assured by KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. 58 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2019 Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements Calculating CO2 Emissions across the Entire Supply Chain Konica Minolta has calculated the CO 2 emissions management and reduction activities throughout the associated with the Groupʼs activities across its entire supply chain. supply chain, from the upstream to the downstream *GHG Protocol: Initiatives for developing an international standard for addressing aspects of its operations, based generally on the standards greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and climate change of the GHG Protocol,* the international standard. In fiscal Overall View of CO2 Emissions 2018, the calculation showed that CO2 emissions Across the Entire Supply Chain of Konica Minolta throughout the supply chain were approximately 1.39 million tons, which represents an increase of approximately Scope 3 (1,024 thousand tons) Scope 1 (170 thousand tons) ★ 3.9% from fiscal 2017. Emissions from the Groupʼs activities Other categories (3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 13, 14, 15) *1 Production/R&D including direct emissions from fuel use (Scope 1) plus 91 thousand tons 120 thousand tons ★ indirect emissions from the consumption of purchased Category 4 (Upstream electricity, heat or steam (Scope 2) totaled approximately Transportation and Distribution) Sales and service 45 thousand tons*2 50 thousand tons ★ 0.37 million tons, or approximately 26% of all emissions. Other indirect emissions (Scope 3) associated with the Category 10 (Processing Scope 2 of Sold Products) Groupʼs activities totaled approximately 1.02 million tons, 56 thousand tons (197 thousand tons) ★ accounting for approximately 74% of all emissions. Category 12 Total Production/R&D CO2 emissions for “purchased goods and services” accounted for 31.4% of emissions across the entire supply (End-of-Life Treatment of Sold Products) 1,391 152 thousand tons ★ thousand chain. Although the amount of resources needed per 56 thousand tons tons Sales and service 44 thousand tons ★ product declined thanks to the development of new models Category 2 (Capital Goods) with resource-saving designs, the number of products sold 128 thousand tons in the Office Business and Professional Print Business Category 11 Category 1 increased significantly, resulting in an overall increase in (Use of Sold Products) (Purchased Goods and Services) CO2 emissions. In terms of the “use of sold products,” which 211 thousand tons ★ 437 thousand tons ★ accounted for 15.2% of emissions, the Group is working to develop features that encourage customers to save energy, *1 Categories 3 (Fueland Energy-Related Activities), 5 (Waste Generated in in addition to reducing the power consumption of the Operations), 6 (Business Travel), 7 (Employee Commuting), 8 (Upstream products themselves. Konica Minolta will share information Leased Assets), 9 (Downstream Transportation and Distribution), 13 (Downstream Leased Assets), 14 (Franchises) and 15 (Investments) with relevant stakeholders in the future based on the results *2 CO 2 emissions attributed to product distribution: 26 thousand tons ★ of these calculations and move forward with CO2 emissions Note: Figures do not necessarily add precisely to the total due to rounding. Environmental Accounting Konica Minolta has implemented global-scale, consolidatincreased slightly from the previous fiscal year to 1.1 billion ed environmental accounting in order to quantitatively yen. Investments in fiscal 2018 consisted of regular equipassess the costs of environmental preservation in business ment renewal only, and there was no large-scale investment. operations and the benefits obtained from those activities. Economic benefits increased mainly due to a change in the Expenditures in fiscal 2018 were approximately 14.3 calculation method for economic benefits in fiscal 2018. billion yen, almost the same as in fiscal 2017. Investments Environmental Pollution prevention Pollution prevention Upstream/ Global warming remediation 2% 11％ Social activity 0％ 10％ downstream 15％ prevention 14％ Environmental remediation 1％ Global warming R&D 29％ prevention 5％ Resource Economic Investment Expenditures circulation 9％ Benefits R&D 1,118 Global 52％ 14,301 Upstream/ downstream 14％ 24,273 Resource million yen warming million yen million yen Resource circulation prevention Administration circulation 14％ 45％ 8％ 71％ Note: Percentages do not necessarily total to 100 because of rounding. 59 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2019 Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements Human Resources Data Summary Employee Composition by Employment Status (As of March 31, 2019) Regular employees*1★ Non-regular employees*2 Total Konica Minolta, Inc. 5,207 1,892 7,099 Group companies in Japan 6,071 2,511 8,582 Group companies outside Japan 33,082 2,606 35,688 Konica Minolta Group (worldwide) 44,360 7,009 51,369 *1 Regular employees: Includes employees seconded from other companies; excludes employees seconded to other companies *2 Non-regular employees: Includes temporary employees, employees dispatched from an agency, and staff contracted from other companies Number of Employees, by Gender (As of March 31, 2019) Regular employees★ Men Women Gender not reported* Konica Minolta Group (worldwide) 30,926 13,176 258 *Some offices do not count men and women separately. Number of Newly Hired Employees (As of March 31, 2019) Regular employees Men Women Gender not reported Konica Minolta, Inc. 138 48 − Percentage of Management Positions Held by Women Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Konica Minolta, Inc.* 1 4.4％ 5.5％ 6.2% Konica Minolta Group (worldwide)*2 16.4％ 18.9％ 18.6% *1 Includes employees seconded to Group companies. Figures are as of April 1, the day after the end of each fiscal year. *2 Konica Minolta, Inc. and consolidated subsidiaries representing at least 92% of the total workforce of the Group through fiscal 2018, and at least 93% in fiscal 2016 and 2017. Figures are as of March 31 of each fiscal year. Percentage of Employees with Disabilities June 1, 2017 June 1, 2018 June 1, 2019★ Employment rate 2.19％ 2.28% 2.32% Note: Boundary through 2018: Konica Minolta, Inc., Konica Minolta With You, Inc., Konica Minolta Japan, Inc., Kinko ʼs Japan Co., Ltd. and Konica Minolta Mechatronics Co., Ltd. Added in 2019: Konica Minolta Information System Co., Ltd., Konica Minolta Planetarium Co., Ltd., and Konica Minolta Business Associates Co., Ltd. Employment rate on June 1, 2018, corrected from 2.27% to 2.28%. Percentage of Local Hires at Subsidiaries Outside Japan (As of March 31 of each fiscal year) Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 President 60％ 63％ 65% Senior staff 55％ 55％ 52% Percentage of Unionization (As of March 31 of each fiscal year) Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Konica Minolta Group (worldwide) 85％ 85％ 87％ Note: Figures are for non-managerial regular employees. ★: Indicators assured by KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. 60 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2019 Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements Retention Status of Employees Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Turnover rate 0.9％ 1.1％ 2.0% Percentage of new employees leaving within three years 8.8％ 11.6％ 10.1% Note: Figures are for regular employees of Konica Minolta, Inc. The percentage of new employees leaving within three years is defined as the percentage of employees who leave their job within three years of joining the company (as of April 1, the day after the end of each fiscal year). Indicators Related to Work-Life Balance Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Percentage of paid leave taken 60.5％ 60.9％ 60.0% Annual overtime hours worked per employee 52 hours 45 hours 46 hours Annual total hours worked per employee 1,763 hours 1,756 hours 1,776 hours Note: Figures are for regular employees of Konica Minolta, Inc. Work-Life Balance Support Program Use (persons) Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Women Men Women Men Women Men Maternal health management leave 2 6 4 Maternity leave 19 31 26 Spousal maternity leave 108 122 104 Parental leave 42 14 46 27 45 35 Shorter working hours for childcare 132 2 117 3 91 3 Work-at-home during child-rearing 27 4 30 4 24 4 Nursing care leave 0 2 0 1 0 1 Shorter working hours for nursing care 1 0 2 0 1 0 Note: Figures are for regular employees of Konica Minolta, Inc. Percentage of Employees Who Return to Work after Childcare Leave Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Work resumption rate 100％ 100％ 100％ Note: Figures are for regular employees of Konica Minolta, Inc. Accidents Causing Absence from Work at Sites in Japan (As of March 31 of each fiscal year) Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Number of employees taking leave from work 4 7 8 Accident frequency rate*1 0.13 0.22 0.25 Number of days of absence 44 237 59 Severity rate of accidents causing absence from work*2 0.0012 0.0062 0.0015 Note: Figures are for employees of Konica Minolta Group Japan, including those dispatched from an agency *1 Accident frequency rate: The number of persons absent from work per one million total actual working hours for current employees *2 Severity rate of accidents causing absence from work: The total number of days absent from work per 1,000 total actual working hours for current employees Accidents Causing Absence from Work at Sites outside Japan (As of March 31 of each fiscal year) Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Number of employees taking leave from work 6 5 5 Accident frequency rate 0.21 0.20 0.20 Number of days of absence 52 98 86 Severity rate of accidents causing absence from work 0.0015 0.0032 0.0029 Note: Figures are for employees of Group companies in China and manufacturing companies in Malaysia, including those dispatched from an agency. 61 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2019 Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements Expert Opinion of Konica Minoltaʼs CSR Report We asked Yoshinao Kozuma, Emeritus Professor of Sophia University, to give us feedback on this report. His comments are presented below. We will use this feedback to improve our future CSR activities and our 2020 CSR Report. 1. Evolving Business Model The worldwide sustainability trend driven by the Paris Agreement and Sustainable Development Goals is accelerating. With this, the future growth of companies will depend upon their capacity to create shared value and their ability to adapt to changes in social systems. If a companyʼs current business model is not appropriate for a sustainable society, it will have to be revised, and in some cases, this may mean a fundamental shift. Konica Minoltaʼs current Medium Term Business Plan, “SHINKA 2019,” sets out a vision for such a business model: becoming “a digital company with insight into implicit challenges.” The business concept behind that vision̶B to B to P for P̶attempts to leverage innovative thinking to identify business opportunities proactively, building on the foundation of the digital technologies the company has developed thus far. It embodies a management policy of striving Yoshinao Kozuma to deliver co-created value and corporate growth in an integrated fashion. Emeritus Professor, One specific new proposal for such a digital company with insight into implicit challenges is Sophia University the companyʼs idea of a digital environmental platform. I have high hopes that this platform, by integrating the solution business and platform business, will contribute to future development and growth as a novel initiative that expands the socioeconomic scale of value co-creation beyond providing expertise on-site into cyberspace. 2. External Evaluations Outside appraisal of Konica Minoltaʼs sustainability management continues to improve. Every year, the company is included in global ESG investment indexes such as the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index (DJSI World) and FTSE4Good. It receives high marks from rating agencies, as well as various awards, and the variety of such recognition is also increasing. Of particular note, Konica Minolta appears to be the first Japanese company to be included in the DJSI World for seven years running since 2012 and to be selected as a leader̶the top company in the Indexʼs sector Industrials̶for two straight years. To put this in context, 340 companies worldwide were included in the DJSI World in September 2012 with only a mere 20 Japanese companies among them. Further, no Japanese company was selected as an Industrials leader back then, when there were 19 groups in the sector of the index. Viewed in light of this history, I believe that the height of Konica Minoltaʼs current outside appraisal appropriately reflects its steady efforts. 3. Evaluation of Initiative Efficacy Based on Konica Minoltaʼs CSR targets and results, we can see that the company is appropriately managing its material issues related to the environment and maintaining good performance. However, there are still issues in its social indicators. For example, improvement has not been made in the target for the accident frequency rate. And the turnover rate is continuing to increase. The percentage of new employees leaving within three years, in particular, has reached double digits and become a cause of concern for human capital management. I imagine that in each case improvement efforts are being made, but perhaps there is a need to reconsider whether the measures taken are proving effective. 62 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2019 Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements External Assurance Konica Minolta engaged KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. to provide assurance on whether its CO2 emissions from procurement, production and research & development, product distribution, sales and service, and product usage; energy use; waste discharged externally from manufacturing; atmospheric emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOCs); water consumption; the number of regular employees (by gender); and the percentage of employees with disabilities have been measured, gathered, and disclosed in accordance with the criteria set by the Group. Indicators that have been assured by KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. are marked with a ★. Period: March to June 2019 On-site audit of the Tokyo Site Independent Assurance Report Hachioji of Konica Minolta, Inc. To the President and CEO of Konica Minolta, Inc. We were engaged by Konica Minolta, Inc. (the “Company”) to undertake a limited assurance engagement of the environmental and social performance indicators marked with ★ for the period from April 1, 2018 to March 31, 2019 included in its CSR Report 2019 (the “Report”) for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019. The Companyʼs Responsibility The Company is responsible for the preparation of the Indicators in accordance with its own reporting criteria (the “Companyʼs reporting criteria”), as described in its website. Our Responsibility Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on the Indicators based on the procedures we have performed. We conducted our engagement in accordance with the ʻInternational Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000, Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Informationʼ and the ʻISAE 3410, Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statementsʼ issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. The limited assurance engagement consisted of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of information presented in the Report, and applying analytical and other procedures, and the procedures performed vary in nature from, and are less in extent than for, a reasonable assurance engagement. The level of assurance provided is thus not as high as that provided by a reasonable assurance engagement. Our assurance procedures included: • Interviewing the Companyʼs responsible personnel to obtain an understanding of its policy for preparing the Report and reviewing the Companyʼs reporting criteria. • Inquiring about the design of the systems and methods used to collect and process the Indicators. • Performing analytical procedures on the Indicators. • Examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the generation, aggregation and reporting of the Indicators in conformity with the Companyʼs reporting criteria, and recalculating the Indicators. • Visiting one of the Companyʼs domestic factories selected on the basis of a risk analysis. • Evaluating the overall presentation of the Indicators. Conclusion Based on the procedures performed, as described above, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Indicators in the Report are not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Companyʼs reporting criteria as described in its website. Our Independence and Quality Control We have complied with the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, which includes independence and other requirements founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behavior. In accordance with International Standard on Quality Control 1, we maintain a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. Tokyo, Japan August 27, 2019 Comment from the Assurance Provider Shutaro Takakura, KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. This CSR report discloses climate-related information for The company provides its CO2 emission performance the four core elements̶Governance, Strategy, Risk data in connection with its “Carbon Minus” targets. This Management, and Metrics and Targets̶in line with enables a clear description of the progress of emission recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related reductions in light of the “Carbon Minus” targets in the Financial Disclosures (TCFD). As investorsʼ interest Medium-Term Environmental Plan 2019 and Eco Vision 2050. concerning the impact of the transition to a low-carbon With respect to human resources data, while targets economy on companiesʼ financials continues to grow, we and achievements in terms of gender diversity, such as the believe this report can be recognized as a first step toward percentage of women in management positions or new disclosure of climate-related information based on the hires, are disclosed, there are some indicators which are not international framework. However, considering the details accompanied by specific company goals, such as the in light of the TCFDʼs recommended disclosures, there are percentage of non-Japanese nationals among new hires. some elements that are still inadequate in disclosure. In Regarding indicators for which goals have not been addition, as examples of climate-related disclosure based formulated, I hope that the company will explain what goals on the TCFDʼs recommendations increase in the future, the it will set in the future and what policies and approaches it company may be required to enhance its climate-related will adopt. disclosure in order to meet investorsʼ needs for information. 63 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2019 Contents / Message from Special Corporate Social Responsibility Material Essential Requirements Data and Third-Party Editorial Policy the President Feature at Konica Minolta Issue to Fulfill CSR Statements Overview of the Konica Minolta Group Corporate Data Consolidated Revenue Consolidated Operating Profit / Operating Profit Ratio Company Konica Minolta, Inc. Operating profit Operating profit ratio name (Billion yen) (Billion yen) (%) 1,200 75 12 Head office 2-7-2 Marunouchi, 1,059.1 65.7 Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, Japan 1,002.7 1,031.7 962.5 1,031.2 60.0 62.4 President Shoei Yamana 53.8 9 and CEO 800 50 50.1 Established December 22, 1936 6.6 5.8 5.2 5.9 6 Capital 37,519 million yen 5.2 (as of March 31, 2019) 400 25 Fiscal March 31 3 year-end Number of Non-consolidated: 5,207 0 0 0 employees Consolidated: 44,360 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) (as of March 31, 2019) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Note: The company uses International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Number of Employees by Region Revenue by Region Revenue by Business Domain Asia (excluding Japan) Asia (excluding Japan) Others and and other regions Japan and other regions Japan adjustments Office Business 12,537 11,278 249.1 billion yen 197.6 billion yen 35.8 billion yen 587.8 billion yen 28.3% 25.4% 23.5％ 18.7% 3.4％ 55.5% Industrial Business 116.7 billion yen 11.0％ Healthcare Professional Europe United States Europe United States Business Print Business 11,275 9,270 318.5 billion yen 293.7 billion yen 90.9 227.7 billion yen 25.4% 20.9% 30.1％ 27.7％ billion yen 21.5％ 8.6％ Business Domains Business Segments Business Content Office Business Development, manufacturing and sale of multifunctional peripherals and related supplies, and provision of related solution services Professional Print Development, manufacturing, and sale of digital Business printing systems and related supplies, and provision of various printing services and solution services Healthcare Development, manufacturing, and sale of medical diagnostic imaging Business systems (such as X-ray photography and ultrasonic diagnostic imaging systems), provision of services related to those systems and other solution services for digitizing and networking medical treatment Industrial Business ● Materials and Components Development, manufacturing and sale of TAC film used for liquid crystal displays, OLED lighting, ink jet heads for industrial use and lenses for industrial and professional uses, and other products ● Optical Systems for Industrial Use Development, manufacturing and sale of measuring equipment, and other products 64 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2019 2-7-2 Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-7015, Japan For inquiries Social Sustainability Department, Corporate Sustainability Division E-mail: csr-support@konicaminolta.jp www.konicaminolta.com
