Annual Report 2018 Contents 4 Highlights from 2018 22 J.W. Ostendorf acquisition 40 Corporate responsibility 7 Hempel at a glance 24 Spotlight on our work 62 Board of Directors 10 Letter to stakeholders 26 Corporate governance 63 Management’s statement 14 2018 in review 32 Risks 64 Independent auditor’s report 19 Strategy 36 Research & development 68 Financial statements The company Board of Directors Executive Management Board Hempel A/S Richard Sand, Chair Henrik Andersen Lundtoftegårdsvej 91 Eric Alström, Deputy Chair Group President & Chief Executive Officer (CEO) DK-2800 Kgs. Lyngby Marianne Wiinholt Lars Jønstrup Dollerup Denmark Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Søren P. Olesen Tel: +45 4593 3800 Lars Petersson Leif Jensen Fax: +45 4588 5518 Executive Vice President & Chief Operating Officer (COO) hempel.com Susanna Schneeberger Peter Kirkegaard Helle Fiedler, elected by the employees Executive Vice President & Chief People & Culture Officer (CPCO) CVR no. 59946013 Financial year: 1 January – 31 December Henrik Bach Falkenberg, elected by the employees Michael Hansen Kim Scheibel, elected by the employees Executive Vice President & Chief Commercial Officer (CCO) Auditors Banks PricewaterhouseCoopers Nordea Bank Statsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab SEB (Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken) Strandvejen 44 BNP Paribas DK-2900 Hellerup HSBC Group Denmark Highlights from 2018 4 | Organic growth (%) EBITDA margin (%) 13.2 0 -0.7 10 12.4 -1.4 10.8 -1.4% 5 10.8% vs 2017 -4.5 -5 0 2016 2017 2018 20161) 2017 20181) • Revenue of EUR 1,346 million equal to organic growth of -1.4% • Solid EBITDA margin considering the raw material price increases, Asia-Pacific turnaround and one-time post-merger • Growth negatively impacted by the turnaround of our Asiaintegration costs Pacific region and market challenges in the Middle East • Substantial investments made to accelerate the execution • Currency fluctuations impacted revenue by EUR -10 million of our Journey to Excellence strategy plan • Excluding J.W. Ostendorf and one-time integration costs, the EBITDA margin was 11.8 per cent in fixed currencies slightly lower than last year, but mitigated by management’s determination to adjust the operating model and cost base when needed Cash conversion (%) ROIC (%) 150 162 18.0 15 16.8 14.8 100 116 84% 14.8% 10 84 50 5 0 0 20161) 2017 20181) 20161) 20171) 20181) • Lower cash conversion driven by strong top-line growth in Q4 • ROIC excluding J.W. Ostendorf and special items was 18.0% and similar to 2017 • EUR 166 million in cash released from working capital since 2016 • Average net working capital days improved by 5 days to 72 days in 2018 • Net debt increased to EUR 97 million. Hempel is cash positive when excluding the EUR 101 million effect from • 3.2pp decrease in ROIC driven by the acquisition of J.W. Ostendorf; the J.W. Ostendorf acquisition in Q4 high raw material prices further negatively impacted ROIC 1) Excluding special items. Highlights from 2018 | 5 Key figures In EUR million (unless otherwise stated) 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Income statement Working capital Revenue 1,346 1,378 1,424 1,563 1,298 Net working capital (NWC) days 59 59 89 122 113 EBITDA 145 1) 171 188 1) 220 166 Employees Amortisation, depreciation and impairment 55 56 58 62 37 Average number of employees 5,882 5,740 5,787 5,661 5,134 Operating profit 901) 115 1301) 158 129 Number of employees, end of period 6,259 5,676 5,768 5,758 5,285 Share of net profits of associates – – 2 2 2 Employee Net Promoter Score Net financials -5 -23 -18 -22 -17 (Scale: -100 to +100) 21 20 25 N/A N/A Profit before tax 72 92 78 138 114 Ratios (%) Net profit for the year 48 55 47 108 82 Organic growth -1.4 -0.7 -4.5 5.5 5.2 Financial position Gross margin 38.2 40.9 43.7 41.7 41.0 Total assets 1,295 1,144 1,265 1,377 1,162 EBITDA margin 10.81) 12.4 13.21) 14.1 12.8 Equity 408 442 458 488 421 Operating profit margin 6.7 1) 8.3 9.1 1) 10.1 10.0 Net interest-bearing debt 97 21 119 272 146 Return on invested capital 14.81,2) 18.01) 16.81) 21.4 21.0 Equity ratio 31.5 38.6 36.2 35.4 36.2 Cash flows Cash conversion 84 1) 116 162 1) 83 81 Total cash flow from operating activities 86 155 250 131 88 Leverage ratio (Net interest-bearing Total cash flow from acquisitions / divestments debt/EBITDA) 0.71) 0.1 0.61) 1.2 0.9 of enterprises -16 14 – -141 -13 1) Excluding special items. Total cash flow from net investments in 2) Including acquisitions for the year. The impact from acquisitions on operating profit is 3 months whereas the balance sheet property, plant and equipment and intangible assets -34 -23 -36 -47 -23 is fully impacting invested capital. Free cash flow 23 144 216 -56 53 6 | Our business The Hempel Foundation Since 1948, the Hempel Group has been is trust fully owned by the Hempel Foundation. The Foundation’s primary purpose is to maintain a solid financial base for the continued existence of the Hempel Group. Its secondary purpose is to support philanthropic purposes around the globe. One of the major strategic focus areas Around the globe, for the Foundation’s philanthropic work Hempel coatings make is empowering children to learn. The our world safer, stronger, Foun­dation supports educational projects in 15 countries and it is estimated that this longer lasting and work has reached more than 100,000 more beautiful. children so far with quality education. The Foundation also supports research into coatings technology, with the aim of making coatings more efficient and sustainable. You can read more about the Hempel Foundation at hempelfoundation.com and follow its work on LinkedIn. Our solutions protect our customers’ assets their business needs. We partner with them against corrosion and help make our world look to design, develop and test new solutions, and more colourful. They keep homes, ships, wind provide expert technical service and advice to turbines, buildings, infrastructure, hospitals and help them optimise their coating processes schools in prime condition for longer, and are and projects. proven to perform under the roughest treatment and in the world’s harshest environments. Our coatings help our customers’ most valuable assets perform better. This demands that we For our customers, our solutions are more than deliver the market’s most trusted solutions. It is just a protective coating. Our solutions help up to us to earn this trust every day through the optimise their processes, reduce maintenance superior performance of our products and our costs and improve their environmental perforexpert service and support. We have been earning mance. Every day, we work with our customers trust for more than 100 years and the desire to around the globe to better understand their earn trust will continue to drive us in the future. business and provide solutions that address Hempel at a glance | 7 Where we add value to our customers’ businesses 8 | Protective Marine Decorative In the harshest industrial environments Improving fleet performance and efficiency Making the world more lasting and colourful Across infrastructure and industries, we work With advanced coatings for every part of a From homes and hospitals to offices, schools and closely with customers to protect their valuable ship, we help our marine customers increase public buildings, our decorative solutions improve structures and heavy-duty equipment from the overall efficiency of their fleet and improve hygiene, lower maintenance requirements, reduce corrosion, increase production efficiency, reduce their environmental performance by cutting energy consumption from air conditioning – and costs and improve the environmental performance maintenance costs and helping reduce fuel help make our world more colourful and inspiring. of their operations. consumption and emissions. Container Yacht Hempel Services Protecting the world’s cargo Under wind and sail A performance partnership We protect cargo containers from corrosion, both With a full range of products for pleasure and We put our unique coating expertise at the heart inside and out, and work with container producracing yachts, we help professional boat builders of our customers’ coating process to improve ers to reduce waste, throughput time and energy and sailing enthusiasts keep their vessels in project efficiency and ensure long-term coatings use on their production lines. perfect condition, so they have more time to performance. enjoy the sea. Hempel at a glance | 9 Our transformation into an industry-leading company continues. Letter to stakeholders Hempel is now almost halfway through its major markets is a testament to what a strong culture, the benefits of bringing J.W. Ostendorf into the increased more than anticipated, which affected transformational journey, which we started back in vision and leadership can achieve, and shows that Hempel Group. the entire industry and put immediate pressure 2016. We are strengthening our organisation and our organisational setup and processes are vital on our profitability. In addition, the marine and oil culture significantly, building a company that will for running Hempel as a global company. The acquisition doubled our decorative business & gas markets remained in a recessional state become one of the leaders in the consolidation of in Europe and contributed EUR 39 million in sales and the political and macro-economic situation in the global coatings industry. Our goal is clear: To We recognise that there is still much work to do. in 2018. Going forward, it will increase our the Middle East made business tougher than become a true industry leader in our core business However, we are excited and encouraged by the decorative business by more than EUR 200 million anti­­cipated. Finally, we saw our businesses in areas. Like any major change, our transformation fact that our new and strong leadership team in sales annually. It also brought us a cutting-edge Asia-Pacific pass through the first tough stages of will take time. However, 2018 has confirmed that understands our tasks and challenges. 2019 will production facility in Coesfeld, Germany, and their major turnaround, which has ensured that we are making very strong progress in all of the be a year of progress and acceleration of our key skilled and knowledgeable new colleagues. Not we conduct business the Hempel way. most important areas and now have the necessary priorities, when we engage the power of the full least, J.W. Ostendorf has given us the breadth of foundation to start making the desired acquisiHempel team across the globe to increase operations required to introduce a strong new When taking these challenges into consideration, tions. We will of course continue full speed ahead momentum in all our business units and continue business unit to the Hempel Group: Decorative Hempel delivered a satisfactory performance in in 2019 to pursue our opportunities to strengthen our transformation into a true industry leader. Europe. Combining Crown Paints and J.W. 2018. Revenue grew by 1.5 per cent in fixed Hempel even further globally. Ostendorf, Decorative Europe will be a true leader currencies, driven by the acquisition of J.W. Welcoming J.W. Ostendorf in the decorative coatings market for both branded Ostendorf and a strong fourth quarter. When With reference to the formerly announced and To reach our ambitious growth targets, our and private labelling, capable of serving customexcluding J.W. Ostendorf, negative underlying necessary thorough improvement of compliance appetite for acquisitive scaling has never been ers across the region with excellent coating organic growth was 1.4 per cent. However, the in Asia-Pacific and despite challenging market higher and we continue to actively seek out new solutions, knowledge and service. Decorative year ended strongly with positive organic growth of conditions in the region, it is positive to see that family members of the right fit, both commercially Europe will also be aspirational for other compa4 per cent in the final quarter, and we expect to we are now through the worst part of the fulland culturally. In 2018, we were pleased to nies, an organisation they want to join. Ultimately, see positive growth continue into 2019. The scale turnaround in our Asia-Pacific businesses. welcome J.W. Ostendorf to the Hempel family, it will serve all of Europe, both retail customers, reported EBITDA margin excluding special items This has been achieved by installing completely a family-run decorative coatings company with who are increasingly consolidating across the ended at 10.8 per cent and 11.7 per cent when new leadership teams and by working hard on the approximately 650 employees and operations region, and homeowners. excluding J.W. Ostendorf. We see this as a ground to create a winning Hempel culture, one primarily in Germany and France. J.W. Ostendorf satisfactory result when considering the negative with strong ties to our customers that ensures all shares many of our values, not least a strong Performance in 2018 impact from the increase in raw material prices employees are engaged in our customer-­focused commitment to the customer and a constant As expected, the coatings market remained very and challenges to our performance in Asia-Pacific vision. Our successful turnaround in these desire to improve, and we are already seeing competitive in 2018. Raw material prices and the Middle East. Letter to stakeholders | 11 making processes, while our employees globally As well as leading customer-focused innovation can drive group-wide practices and are close to in the areas in which we choose to compete, our daily business and operations. we want to lead the industry in ‘service management’, essentially taking over responsibility for With this foundation in place, we focused on keeping our customers’ assets in the agreed accelerating our strategy in 2018. We realise that, condition over the asset’s life cycle. This is a new with many strategy initiatives ongoing, an organisaway of thinking for the industry and we undertion can lose focus. Therefore, we introduced the stand that it will take time. In 2018, we took an House of Priorities, a simple tool to give our leader­important step on this road when we created ship teams and employees a clear overview of our Hempel Services, a new globally aligned service key priorities for the current period to ensure we organisation that will contribute to ­strengthening remain focused on the most important tasks in our our customer relationships, ensure ­consistency strategic journeys, with the clear aim of completing and quality in our services across the globe and and sustaining each change. contribute to Hempel’s earnings. Hempel Services launched eight globally standardised Customers and innovation in all we do service products for marine and protective Through our products and services, we help customers that give transparency to our services our customers protect their valuable assets, offer and make it easier for customers to see reduce costs, improve efficiency and limit the value in what we do. emissions. Our preferred way of working is as our customers’ innovation partner, as this Over 1,300 customers gave us valuable feed­­is the best way to add value to our customers back on our work and relationship with them and ensure that the solutions we develop are in our Customer Engagement Survey in 2018. well-suited to the market. This demands that The survey showed that in most regions ‘trust we truly understand a customer’s business, that in products’ is the most important driver of our entire global organisation works to develop customer loyalty, and that we are performing solutions that address the customer’s business well in this area. Other important loyalty drivers needs, and we test and refine these solutions in include complaint handling, logistics and the collaboration with the customer. Our global key relationship with the account manager. Our net account managers play an important role in promoter score was 52, roughly the same as this, acting as quarterbacks to orchestrate the last year. This indicates that our customers collaboration between the customer and our remain very satisfied with our work, but that global organisation. there is still room to improve. Although we still We continued to improve our net working capital Driving our strategy forward have pockets of absolute excellence, there are days and ended the year at 59 days, with a with the House of Priorities As many of our customers are global, they also areas that need immediate improvements. yearly average of 72 days – 5 days better than The goal of our Journey to Excellence strategy ­­de­­m­and global solutions and service, delivered in 2017. Since 2016, we have released EUR remains to improve profitability and growth by globally but adapted to local requirements. Major investments in our customers 166 million in cash by optimising our net striving for organisational excellence. We have Therefore, we introduced a new commercial and the future of Hempel working capital process. When adjusting for the come a long way on this journey, supported by organisation in 2017 to drive best practice In 2018, we made many important decisions and effect from the acquisition, Hempel’s net the two-dimensional operating model that we among our sales teams across the globe. In investments regarding our future. We continued to interest-bearing debt was eliminated in 2018. introduced in 2016. The model enables our 2018, our Group Commercial function rolled expand our site in Lyngby, Denmark for what will We will continue to strive for excellence in this regions to focus on business execution and out important new programmes to improve our be the future Hempel Campus, including our area to free up working capital, as it will give us serving customers, while our global functions commercial excellence, including a new sales headquarters and R&D facilities. This investment the freedom to pursue our ambitious growth drive best practice across the globe. The word operating model that will ensure we spend more is being made to support our location in Denmark targets through major acquisitions and strong agile is used often. For Hempel, agile simply time with our c­ ustomers and better align the and also to highlight the importance of our organic growth. means that our leaders can speed up decision-­ whole value chain in solving customer challenges. proximity to and collaboration with the Technical 12 | University of Denmark. Further, we opened our 6,500 employees across more than 80 counto SØIK, the Danish State Prosecutor for Serious tion and co-creation together in order to find new new R&D Centre of Excellence in Barcelona, Spain tries. Our ability to deliver value relies on our ability Economic and International Crime. The unlawful solutions and technologies that add value to their in the autumn. Focused on coatings for passive to attract, retain and develop the best people in practices were stopped immediately and the businesses. We will also look for new companies fire protection, the centre will enable us to further the business – and we need all of our employees people responsible were replaced. Hempel has to bring into the Hempel family, as we continue our enhance our capabilities, expertise and product to be engaged and committed to our strategy and completed internal remediation, invested journey towards our goal of becoming a EUR 3 offering in what is an increasingly important area work. In 2018, our Employee Engagement Survey heavily, and established a robust compliance billion revenue company and one of the global for our customers. showed that we have made progress in terms of framework. Hempel A/S and Hempel (Germany) leaders in the coatings industry. engagement, but also that there is still great GmbH have now been fined and agreed to a We also reviewed our manufacturing footprint in variation across our business units and employee total settlement of DKK 220 million for these Thank you our strategically important region of China and groups. Some units made great leaps forward in illegal practices. The fine is within the range of Overall, 2018 was a satisfactory year. Despite a Korea, and decided to expand our footprint in the 2018; for others, the gap increased. We must expectations and will be paid to SØIK and the challenging market, we finished the year well, with region by improving our existing production continue to improve so that every employee in Prosecution Authority in Kiel, Germany. DKK strong organic growth in a number of important facilities and building new sites – a total investHempel has the possibility to realise their full 123 million was expensed in Hempel’s financial regions and businesses. We welcomed a new ment of more than EUR 100 million. We believe potential. This is our most visible leadership statements for 2016, with the remaining part in addition to the family, made strong progress on our that this major investment is required to meet our challenge in this area. Therefore, engaging every the financial year 2018. Hempel has coopertransformational journey and defined a compliant global customers’ future needs for manufacturing Hempel colleague in our strategy and transformaated fully with and had complete confidence in foundation that is ready for future growth. in and servicing the Chinese market. It also sends tional journey is an overriding theme for 2019. This the authorities throughout this process. a strong signal to our colleagues in China and work begins with our leaders, so in 2018 we This work was only possible with the commitment Korea that Hempel supports and is investing in the defined the 10 essential leadership competencies We want to be clear: Our focus on compliance of our highly skilled and hard-working employees region. Overall, these investments illustrate our that our leaders must take to heart and develop. is ongoing. We will continue to send a strong across the globe. On behalf of the Executive commitment to use capital efficiently and reinvest These leadership competencies typify the Hempel message from the Board of Directors and Management Board and the Board of Directors, for the long-term good of the business. culture and spirit, and they make it clear what we Executive Management Board that compliance we would like to thank you all for your dedicaexpect from our leaders and how we expect them is non-negotiable. Hempel has zero tolerance for tion in 2018. We would also like to extend our Working with sustainability in mind to lead. Both these things – ­engaging the full team inappropriate practices and violations of law. thanks to you, our customers, shareholder and We are in a global industry, and we establish and developing our leaders – were central themes Any such behavior is in conflict with what we other stakeholders, for your ongoing support trust through our delivery of trusted solutions. at the Hempel Leadership Summit, which was held stand for. It is a direct attack on the integrity of and trust. As a company, we are committed to running our in Houston, US in 2018. Hempel’s customers, culture, values and all our business in a way that supports the United colleagues. Our business is built on trust and a Nations Sustainable Development Goals and so Finally, we continued in our push to reaffirm and robust compliance framework will always be contributes to solving some of the most pressing solidify our compliance culture. We updated our central to it. challenges in the world today. As a signatory to Code of Conduct, completed Code of Conduct the UN Global Compact, we promote the United eLearning for almost 4,000 employees world­Looking forward to 2019 Nations’ principles on human rights, labour, wide and launched special Code of Conduct We anticipate that the coatings market will environment and anti-­corruption, and integrate eLearning for people in customer-­facing positions. regain strength in 2019 and, with a fully these in our sustainability programmes. This We also introduced a new Business Partner Code customer-­focused organisation, we expect to commitment extends through our entire value of Conduct. We appreciate that no company works deliver underlying organic growth in line with chain from how we source raw materials to our in isolation, and we expect our suppliers and other or slightly better than the market. From an Henrik Andersen employee development programmes. business partners to work with the same high earnings perspective, we expect flat margin Group President & Chief Executive Officer ethical standards that we do. We have now development in percentage terms and an Please take some time to read about our defined a compliant foundation for future growth, increase in absolute terms. initiatives and progress in this area in the and know how to play by these rules. Corporate responsibility section of this report. Again, 2019 will be a year of strategy execution. Hempel has resolved the SØIK case Internally, we will use the House of Priorities to Engaging the full team In April 2017, Hempel self-reported a number ensure focus and commitment on our excellence Hempel is a truly global company, and with the of uncovered illegal sales practices found in journeys. Externally, we will look to build closer Richard Sand Chair of the acquisition of J.W. Ostendorf, we are now around Germany, other countries in Europe and in Asia relationships with our customers, driving innovaBoard of Directors of Hempel A/S Letter to stakeholders | 13 2018 Hempel’s performance was satisfactory in 2018, especially in the fourth quarter, when we saw strong organic growth, growth in previously underperforming regions and positive growth from the acquisition of J.W. Ostendorf. However, as expected, the global coatings market remained challenged throughout 2018, not least due to in review increasing raw material prices and the recessional state of the marine and oil & gas markets. Raw material prices increased more than anticipated and the pressure on Hempel’s profitability, especially in the first half of the year, was significant. The turnaround of our Asia-Pacific businesses following two years of compliance-­ related challenges, and the political and macro-­ economic crisis in the Middle East also contributed to making 2018 more difficult than anticipated. As a result, positive organic growth rates did not materialise before the second half of the year, but we created the foundation for further growth in 2019. In 2018, we continued our transformational Despite the challenging business environment and our deliberate choice to charge fair prices for our journey, establishing the products and solutions while raw material prices foundation for future were increasing rapidly, we delivered a satisfactory growth. result in 2018 and made significant progress on our Journey to Excellence strategy. Progress in our industrial transformation and strengthening of the Hempel business platform gave us the confidence to acquire J.W. Ostendorf. A leading European decorative paint manufacturer, J.W. Ostendorf contributed with acquisitive growth of 2.9 per cent in 2018 and is expected to grow Hempel by more than 15 per cent in 2019. We also created a foundation for growth in our Asia-Pacific region, which ended 2018 in significantly better shape, and restructured our business in North America. In the fourth quarter of 2018, North America delivered robust double-digit organic growth and North Asia delivered a strong improvement in earnings by being clear on value propositions to customer segments, among other things. The Hempel Group’s revenue for the year was EUR 1,356 million in fixed currencies, equalling growth “ Our tasks ahead are to: convert profit into cash; generate industryleading profitability; and use disciplined operations to generate above industry-average organic growth while being one of the consolidators in the global coatings industry” of 1.5 per cent, including the effect from the J.W. existing solutions and in many cases com­­bined 1 day. Excluding the effect from J.W. Ostendorf, We saw positive organic growth in four of our eight Ostendorf acquisition. Underlying organic growth with reasonable price increases. With our decision net working capital days ended at 60 days, with an regions. Our large European operations – Europe was negative 1.4 per cent. However, we saw strong to work with fair prices for our products as part average for 2018 of 71 days – 6 days better than & Africa and our newly established Decorative improvements in the second half of the year. of our strategy to deliver profitable growth, we the average for 2017. Through our work in this Europe region, which combines Crown Paints and Organic growth in the first half of 2018 was accepted losing unattractive deals, which in some area, we have released a total of EUR 166 million J.W. Ostendorf – both delivered strong results. We negative 3.7 per cent; in the second six months cases would have provided Hempel with a loss. since the end of 2016. We still see room for also delivered substantial organic growth of almost organic growth was positive 1.1 per cent, with We were therefore able to maintain a relatively progress and will continue to drive working capital 10 per cent in the Americas, mainly due to strong almost 4 per cent growth in the fourth quarter. healthy level of profitability in comparison to improvements as a vehicle to fund acquisitive performance within the marine and rail industries, Organic revenue development was below expectaindustry peers, albeit with a negative impact on scaling and growth. as well as good results from our Neogard constructions, particularly our Protective segment, which growth in the first half of 2018. In combination tion coatings range. experienced the biggest disruption in connection with our keen focus on operational excellence and We will continue to strengthen our operating with the transformation of our sales and business the proactive implementation of cost-saving model. Our tasks are prioritised in the following Our Middle East and Asia-Pacific regions were processes in Asia-Pacific. The EBITDA margin in initiatives where needed, we continued our focus order: convert profit into cash; generate induschallenged in 2018. In the Middle East, our fixed currencies and before special items ended at on generating positive cash flow, which was used try-leading profitability; and use disciplined performance was impacted by the economic and 10.9 per cent and 11.8 per cent when excluding partly to fund the acquisition of J.W. Ostendorf and operations to generate above industry-average political crisis in Saudi Arabia and the continued J.W. Ostendorf, slightly below the 2017 level of to reduce debt. When adjusting for the effect from organic growth while being one of the consolidaembargo of Qatar. In Asia-Pacific, we experienced 12.4 per cent and short of the ambitions laid out in the acquisition, Hempel’s net interest-­bearing debt tors in the global coatings industry. negative organic growth of more than 10 per cent. the 2017 Annual Report. Considering the business was eliminated in 2018 and, despite the EUR Although this was disappointing and below environment in many of our key markets, we 101 million acquisition investment and capital Sales expectations, we anticipated negative growth in consider the financial results for 2018 satisfactory. expenditure investments of EUR 36 million, Sales in 2018 amounted to EUR 1,356 million the region due to the change in regional manageHempel’s net interest-bearing debt at the end of in fixed currencies (EUR 1,317 million excluding ment, the complete turnaround in our operating Raw material price increases were more rapid and 2018 was only EUR 97 million, still much below J.W. Ostendorf) compared to sales of EUR model and the expected contraction of the global substantial than anticipated – averaging globally the level at the end of 2015. Net working capital 1,335 million in 2017. This corresponded to marine market, which makes up a substantial part more than 9 per cent – and impacted the entire days ended at 59 days, equal to last year’s all-time organic growth of -1.4 per cent. Unfavourable of our operations in North Asia. coatings industry hard. We decided to enter into low of 59 days in December 2017. This was partly fluctuations in currencies generated a negative talks with our customers to find solutions to comp­driven by the inclusion of J.W. Ostendorf, which foreign exchange impact of EUR 10 million, or As expected, we experienced continued tough ensate for the increased cost based on new and improved the Group’s net working capital days by -0.8 per cent. market conditions in the marine industry globally. 2018 in review | 15 Increasing production capacity We began construction of a new factory in Jeddah in Saudi Arabia in 2018, marking the start of construction with a groundbreaking ceremony in October. The factory will open in 2019. The marine newbuild markets in Asia and Europe Our Group Commercial function, established in them to better protect their assets. These operating model in our regions and adjust the continued to decline, and we saw negative 2017, drove our commercial excellence journey investments have given us the foundation upon cost base where necessary if top-line projects do organic growth in these markets. These chalin line with our strategy. We made strong which we can build and maintain the strongest not materialise; the margin improvements we lenges were partly offset by strong performance progress and began several new initiatives to customer relationships in the industry and have seen in North Asia and the Middle East are within marine maintenance, where our marfurther professionalise our commercial efforts continuously see improvements in measurable a result of necessary and disciplined actions ket-leading Hempaguard hull coatings continued and drive sales productivity, including launching customer satisfaction. being carried out when required. A proportion of to gain market share. On balance, our Marine our new sales operating model at the start of the realised savings were reinvested in strategic segment performed better than anticipated in 2018. Our Global Key Account Management Operating expenses initiatives, primarily in our innovation and 2018. However, our Protective segment had a (GKAM) programme also made a mark on our Excluding the effect from the J.W. Ostendorf customer journeys. We strengthened our sales disappointing year, experiencing 4 per cent 2018 performance, securing important wins with acquisition, operating expenses before special force and added commercial talents, especially negative organic growth, compared to expected key existing and new customers. We expect to items decreased by 1.2 per cent in fixed currenin North America and Asia-Pacific, where we organic growth in line with the market of 1-2 per see a continuation of accelerated growth and cies in 2018. Operating expenses before special made substantial investments in upgrading our cent. This decline was mainly driven by our increased share of wallet with our GKAM items but including J.W. Ostendorf increased by regional commercial management teams and Infrastructure and Wind Energy sub-segments, customers in 2019 and beyond. We are making 2.9 per cent in fixed currencies and decreased by sales force throughout the year. Investments in which did not generate growth as expected. it easier to be a Hempel customer by continuing 1.0 per cent in reporting currencies. our innovation journey resulted in new product Consequently, we lost market share within the to invest in digitalisation, including our customer launches. protective industry in 2018. Our Decorative portal My Hempel. We also continued our work to Cost savings from our operational and production segment grew by 17 per cent, partly through improve our services offering. Hempel Services is excellence activities contributed to ease the We accelerated the migration of transactional positive organic growth in our UK-based Crown now a separate strategic business unit within negative impact on margins from raw material finance activities to our existing Shared Services Paints operation and partly driven by the J.W. Hempel, dedicated to providing expert coating price increases. Moreover, our operational Centre in Gdansk, Poland. Among other things, Ostendorf acquisition. advisory services to our customers to enable discipline implies that we proactively change our the new setup will enable us to implement 16 | 2018 in review “ An important part of end-to-end processes that encompass our entire The effective tax rate for the year was 33.3 per a 65 per cent majority stake in J.W. Ostendorf, a organisation, gather and process data consistcent and 28.2 per cent before special items. This family-owned company with approximately 650 our Journey to Excellence ently across the Group and generate future compares to 40.0 per cent last year. The lower employees. The acquisition agreement also strategy is to participate efficiencies through automation. In addition, we effective tax rate in 2018 was expected, as the includes an option for Hempel to acquire the expanded and invested in improving our effective tax rate for 2017 was impacted by the remaining 35 per cent stake in J.W. Ostendorf. in the consolidation of decorative distribution network in the Middle US tax reform and adjustments of uncertain tax With this acquisition, we doubled our decorative the industry” East and the UK, and laid the groundwork for positions. On a like-for-like comparison, the business in Europe and acquired a cutting-edge Decorative Europe. effective tax rate reduced by 2.1 percentage production facility in Coesfeld, Germany. The points, in line with expectations. takeover was effective from 1 October 2018 and Operating income/expenses, net in 2018 contributed EUR 39 million in sales in 2018. included one-time gains from the sale of Net profit amounted to EUR 48 million, compared Going forward, the acquisition will increase our land-leasing rights in Kuwait as well as insurance to EUR 55 million last year. decorative business – and so our business in recoverable. Special items include a EUR 13 general – by more than EUR 200 million in million provision related to the resolution of the Capital expenditure annual sales. SØIK case. During 2018, we continued to invest in new factories, modernisation of our production and As an integral part of our strategy, the existing EBITDA optimisation of our manufacturing footprint. Total business is also assessed to ensure that Hempel Hempel’s EBITDA margin in 2018 before special gross capital expenditure was EUR 36 million in operates in segments of strategic importance items was 10.9 per cent in fixed currencies. fixed currencies, 16 per cent below last year. that contribute positively to the growth and This includes J.W. Ostendorf and post-merger Excluding capital expenditure associated with profitability of the Group. integration costs associated with the transaction. J.W. Ostendorf of EUR 1 million, capital expendiExcluding these elements and special items, the ture was EUR 35 million. As part of optimising Cash flow and net interest-bearing debt organic EBITDA margin for 2018 was 11.8 per our manufacturing footprint, we progressed with 2018 was another year with sharp focus on cent in fixed currencies. This was slightly lower the optimisation and relocation of our Yantai bringing down Hempel’s net debt and we saw than 2017, and a solid result when considering factory in China, began construction of a new solid progress in this area. In the last four years, the increase in raw material prices and chalfactory in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia and inaugurated net working capital days decreased from 122 lenges to our performance, especially in our our new R&D Centre of Excellence in Barcelona, days in 2015 to 59 days in 2018. Net working Asia-Pacific and Middle East regions. Our focused Spain focused on coatings for passive fire capital days was 59 days at the end of 2018, effort to offset the pressure on earnings from raw protection. Other capital investments in 2018 including J.W. Ostendorf, and 60 days on a material prices as well as continued cost included costs related to the upgrade of our like-for-like comparison. synergies from our operational excellence Microsoft Dynamics 365 solution, which will be activities helped protect margins in 2018 and rolled out across Hempel in the next three years. Total cash flow from operating activities ended made room for continued investments in our at EUR 86 million in 2018, compared to EUR Journey to Excellence strategy. We will continue to invest in new capacity and 155 million in 2017. Strong cash flow from manufacturing optimisation in the future in line operating activities contributed to eliminating In absolute terms, reported EBITDA before with our strategy plans in order to reduce net interest-bearing debt and making Hempel a special items amounted to EUR 145 million operating costs and ensure we can deliver cash-positive company, before considering the (EUR 147 million in fixed currencies), compared products when and where our customers need acquisition of J.W. Ostendorf. The acquisition to EUR 171 million in 2017. them. This includes reviewing our manufacturing negatively impacted net interest-­bearing debt by footprint in Asia-Pacific. EUR 101 million, taking net interest-bearing debt Tax and net profit to EUR 97 million, a ratio of 0.7 to EBITDA, up Hempel experienced a EUR 13 million negative Acquisitions from 0.1 in 2017. Despite the investment in J.W. impact on EBITDA in 2018 related to the An important part of our Journey to Excellence Ostendorf, we still have strong capabilities to resolution of the compliance case reported to strategy is to participate in the consolidation gain further acquisitive scale by taking a leading SØIK in April 2017. The total provision at the end of the industry and grow through acquisition. role in the ongoing consolidation of the global of 2018 was EUR 31 million. During 2018, we signed an agreement to acquire coatings industry. 18 | 2018 in review Strategy Our Journey to Excellence strategy aims at building the foundation for Hempel’s long-term success by strengthening and improving the way we deliver valuable products and services to our customers (key enablers); as well as focusing on communicated the Hempel values and developed our brand promise of Trust is earned. We are now experiencing the positive effects of much stronger and closer connected global developing our offering, especially in selected operations, in which every employee apprecisegments (Must-Win Battles). ates their role and understands their contribuWe progressed further on our tion to our transformation and journey towards Journey to Excellence strategy Our aim remains to grow faster than the market, excellence. With this foundation in place, we and we are investing in accelerated growth – are now able to accelerate execution of our in 2018 by executing on our both organically and through acquisitions. Journey to Excellence strategy. main priorities and building the In 2018, we took a step in this journey by acquiring J.W. Ostendorf. To support this and to ensure focus, we have capabilities for future growth. developed the House of Priorities, which provides Introducing the House of Priorities an overview of our key priorities for the coming We know that any deep industrial transformayear. The House of Priorities will ensure we align tion takes time and resources. In recent years, our efforts across the Group within each of our we have worked diligently to build a strong four strategic journeys: The Customer Journey, foundation that will enable Hempel to reach its Excellence Journey, Product & Innovation Journey full potential. We have developed our two-­ and Culture & Leadership Journey. dimensional operating model, defined and Journey to Excellence House of Priorities Trusted partner in coatings To grow faster than the market Achieving higher profitability solutions by being customer centric through operational excellence The four journeys Customer Excellence Innovation & Culture & Journey Journey Product Leadership Journey Journey CIVIL ENERGY HEAVY-DUTY MARINE SUPPLY SALES SOLUTION DECORATIVE MARINE PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT CHAIN EXCELLENCE EXCELLENCE EXCELLENCE Journey to Excellence Foundation for leadership Foundation Foundation for for Leadership leadership Trust is earned Two-dimensional operating model Hempel at Heart Hempel leadership model Strategy | 19 The Hempel Produce & supply • Constantly strive for greater excellence & efficiency Advise & support • Keep customer assets in agreed condition business • Work to improve lead times • Help customers & environmental performance optimise processes • Ensure fast and reliable supply • Ensure efficiency & & delivery to customers across quality during application the globe model Communicate & sell Customers Innovate & create • Understand customers’ • Listen to customer needs business needs • Partner with customers • Communicate benefits to create solutions of solutions • Partner with others to • Ensure best possible explore new solutions solution for each project & technologies Develop & improve • Work with customers to test solutions in the field • Adjust existing solutions to improve performance • Tailor solutions to local conditions 20 | Key strategy execution initiatives in 2018 • Customer Journey: We became even more Group organisational structure customer focused with the rollout of our new sales operating model. The new model will Hempel ensure we spend more time with our customers and better align how we sell across the Decorative North South Europe North South & Middle Middle Hempel Group. Europe America America & Africa Asia East Asia East (West) East (East) Commercial Dimension 2 • Customer Journey: We took a number of steps to further develop Hempel Services, our service Operations business. This included developing new service concepts that resonate with our customers’ needs and improving our operational setup, Finance with special focus on competence building, managing resources and workplace safety. People & Culture • Excellence Journey: We made significant Dimension 1 progress within process excellence, focusing on efficiency and transparency. This included initiatives to improve our supply chain efficiency as well as expanding our global the world’s leading oil & gas companies and • With the acquisition of J.W. Ostendorf in internal excellence in 2019. This includes rolling Shared Service Centre to improve how our significantly reduces maintenance requireSeptember, we expanded our Decorative out a new customer service setup, further Finance function supports our business units. ments compared to currently available coating segment in Europe, creating a strong platform sharpening our customer segmentation and systems. for future growth, which we will target through continuing our market-driven innovation. We also • Product & Innovation Journey: We continue organic growth in both the branded and private remain committed to growing by inviting new to innovate in collaboration with some of our • Culture & Leadership Journey: We developed label markets and by inviting more companies companies to join the Hempel family. We have a most trusted customers and we successfully and rolled out leadership competencies and to join Decorative Europe. The integration of strong pipeline of highly interesting candidates, developed, tested and launched new innovate talent development training modules for J.W. Ostendorf will continue in 2019. both small and large, and will pursue this journey products, including Hempatop Repel, a leaders at all levels of the Group to ensure we with energy and enthusiasm in 2019. coating based on brand-new technology that build and maintain a strong talent pipeline for Looking ahead actively repels water from the coated surface. our future leadership position. As defined in our House of Priorities, we will Hempatop Repel was developed with one of continue to drive customer-centric solutions and Strategy | 21 Joining Driving modern production Highly automated and environmentally forces with friendly, J.W. Ostendorf’s coating production facility in Coesfeld, Germany is one of the most modern in the world. J.W. Ostendorf With the acquisition of J.W. Ostendorf – including Renaulac in France retailers’ brands across 20 European countries both continue to serve their customers as – officially became part of the Hempel family in and five non-European countries. separate entities, but they will be able to draw J.W. Ostendorf, Hempel 2018, in a deal signed on 27 September and from each other’s intellectual and material is laying the foundation effective from 1 October. The acquisition united Our Decorative segment has long been a key resources, including their shared brand portfolio, Hempel with one of the leading decorative paint business area with potential for strong growth, production facilities, supply chain and research for one of the biggest and manufacturers in Europe, and the two companies especially in Europe. With the acquisition of and development capabilities. most ambitious decorative are seen as a perfect fit. J.W. Ostendorf, we are now building a decorative organisation capable of taking advantage of By combining the best of Crown Paints and J.W. organisations in Europe. J.W. Ostendorf, a family-run company with these opportunities. Ostendorf in this way, Decorative Europe can approximately 650 employees primarily in Germany serve our customers better with tailored solutions and France, shares many of the Hempel values, Decorative Europe unites Crown Paints and that meet their exact needs. It also gives us a including a strong commitment to customers, a J.W. Ostendorf. It has many years of decorative strong platform from which to continue our constant desire to improve and a focus on expertise, some of the most modern production expansion into the European decorative market sustainability. It also holds a unique and complefacilities in Europe and a large footprint‚ over the coming years. mentary position on the market: It is a true especially in the UK, Ireland, Germany and European private-label specialist, working with France. Crown Paints and J.W. Ostendorf will 22 | The Ostendorf family and advisors, the Chair of the Board of Directors of Hempel A/S, and Hempel’s M&A team at the signing ceremony in Copenhagen, Denmark J.W. Ostendorf acquisition | 23 Spotlight “ Hempel worked with us from the very beginning of the Merkur project. We were able to define together coating systems Savings for every vessel on our that were approved by our client and adapted to our fabrication processes” Using Hempel SHAPE to benchmark and improve propulsion Julio Martín Ramos, efficiency, and reduce emissions. General Manager of IDESA The challenge work Fuel remains the no.1 expense for most ocean-going vessels, and any improvement in fuel efficiency can have a big impact on bottom line and environmental performance. This makes improving propulsion efficiency – from propeller performance to hydrodynamics – an extremely important focus area for all vessel operators and tonnage providers on the charterers market. We work with many great The solution With Hempel SHAPE (Systems for Hull and Propeller Efficiency) in companies and projects. Wind tower transition pieces ready for transport combination with world-class hydrodynamic hull coatings, we can bring Here is a snapshot of our savings to every operator, no matter the age, size or operating patterns of their vessels. Based on the ISO 19030 framework, Hempel SHAPE work from 2018. Towering offshore wind farms combines all elements of propulsion efficiency optimisation, including digital data gathering, benchmarking and expert analysis. Protecting the largest wind farm in the German North Sea. Hammonia Reederei, a German-based ship management company The challenge and project developer in global shipping, was among the first customers When complete, the Merkur Offshore Wind Farm will be the largest to take advantage of this offer. In 2018, we applied our Hempaguard X7 in the German North Sea, supplying power to half a million homes. hull coating to two of its vessels, benchmarked propulsion performance Windar and IDESA – two companies in the Daniel Alonso Group – and compared this to other vessels of the same class. We then are renowned for producing steel transition pieces for offshore wind combined our expertise with Hammonia Reederei to improve efficiency turbine towers. When they were contracted to produce 66 transition and so reduce operating costs and emissions. The results have been pieces for the Merkur farm, they asked us to supply the coatings. impressive, and we will continue to work with Hammonia Reederei to further optimise its operations, costs and environmental footprint. The 28 metre-tall transition pieces were built in Avilés in Northern Spain and transported to the wind farm by boat. The coatings had to be fast and efficient to apply, able to withstand knocks and abrasion during transport, and tailored to harsh North Sea conditions. The solution Our Global Key Account Management team worked with Windar, IDESA and GE Renewable Energy, the producer of the towers, to “ The fuel efficiency develop a solution that was ideal for both the fabrication process and expertise of Hempel the offshore location. As a result, Windar and IDESA could complete has helped us a lot” the coating of the transition pieces quickly, confident that the coating Frank Braune, General Manager, system will protect them for many years to come. Hammonia Reederei 24 | Extending asset lifespan Performing repair work on an offshore platform, without production downtime. The challenge When specialised contracting company Alpha ECC discovered corrosion on an offshore production platform that it was working on, it asked us to help. Located in the Shwe gas field, the platform was far out in the Andaman Sea and the corrosion problem needed to be Inside a Crown Paints store solved onsite, without stopping production or requiring a costly return to dock. A beautiful multi-channel The solution Hempel Services chose a coatings system that would provide assured experience long-term performance, but also could be applied in tricky offshore conditions. To ensure the project ran smoothly from start to finish, we Developing a multi-channel approach to better serve professional helped Alpha ECC plan the repair work. We then worked with Alpha ECC painters and decorators. to advise the applicators on how to prepare the surface and apply the coating, and supervised the application onsite. The challenge The UK market has seen a dynamic shift in the way consumers As a result of our efforts, the platform repairs were carried out and professional tradespeople buy decorative coatings. Traditional successfully, without a stop in platform production or the need for distribution channels are under pressure as consumers move from ‘Do it yourself’ to ‘Do it for me’. Therefore, there is an increasing need “The e-commerce a costly demobilisation. to attract and support professional painters. website for Crown Trade Hempel Services offers customers comprehensive onsite support The solution customers is a great tool, Crown Paints has risen to the challenge by investing in and developing its people and store network. We opened 9 new stores in the UK and especially when I’m on a Ireland in 2018, and worked with our store colleagues to ensure they job and realise we need can meet the changing demands of their customers and the market. some more gear, but the We already provide excellent customer service, including paint specifications, free delivery and credit account facilities. In addition, we launched store is closed. The a new e-commerce website in 2018 that enables professional painters to browse a broader selection, check stock availability and order online, goods are always ready with the option to either collect in store or deliver on site. for me to collect the next We will continue to invest in our store development during 2019, and day. It’s very helpful and will collaborate across Decorative Europe to enhance our multi-channel offering to customers. straightforward” Colin, ECM Painting and Decorating Spotlight on our work | 25 Corporate governance We continued our initiatives and expanded our commitment to our compliance values in 2018 and we reached one of our diversity goals two years ahead of target. The purpose of corporate governance within locally) and the daily business, enables manageAt the Annual General Meeting in 2018, two new Hempel is to ensure that Hempel is led, managed Hempel’s management structure ment to drive group-wide initiatives, and helps Board members were elected. The new members and operated as a modern global company and speed up decision-making processes and strategy have extensive top management experience and a leader in the coatings industry. We aim to build Board of Directors execution. We have employees in more than 80 have achieved significant results in their respecon best practices from within and learn from countries and we insist that management fully tive fields. Both will play an important part in the other companies and organisations. Our strong The Remuneration The Audit empowers them and includes them in our strategy Board of Directors’ continued efforts to ensure corporate governance supports value creation for and Nomination execution, as this is required for success in a strong growth and support top management’s Committee Committee our customers, suppliers, employees and the global and highly competitive industry. Our transformation of Hempel. Susanna Schneeberger communities in which we operate. It also organisational model supports this. is a member of the Executive Board & Chief Digital determines a clear distribution of management Executive Management Board Officer at KION Group and a member of the Board responsibilities, which contributes to the In order to ensure that our management teams of Concentric AB, among others. Søren P. Olesen long-term success of the company. across the globe understand and share a common is CEO of Stark Group and has extensive experivision, the Hempel Group operates an Annual ence within the paint industry and builders In 2018, we continued our strong focus on Management Cycle, a yearly management wheel merchant trade. corporate governance through policies, processes customers, both locally and globally. They are that ensures our management teams across the and control systems, as well as training and responsible for operational execution and have full globe understand and share a common vision. Employee representatives are elected in accordfollow-up activities. This included launching a profit/loss responsibility. Our four Group functions ance with the Danish Companies Act, for terms formalised internal control system to further ensure process excellence, functional leadership Board of Directors of four years. optimise our procedures. At the Annual General and operational synergies across the Group. The Board of Directors consists of six members Meeting, two new members were elected to the elected by the shareholder at the Annual General Composition and responsibilities Board of Directors: Søren P. Olesen and The Executive Management Board consists of the Meeting and three employee members elected of the Board of Directors Susanna Schneeberger. heads of the four Group functions and the CEO. by the employees based in Denmark. Board The composition of the Board of Directors is a mix The Operational Management Board consists of members elected by the shareholder at the Annual of professional Board members and members with Management structure the Executive Management Board, the head of General Meeting are elected for an annual term executive positions. This composition is deemed The Hempel Group is organised in two dimenStrategy and M&A, and the heads of the regions. and can be elected up until the Annual General appropriate as it provides a good balance between sions: Regions and Group functions (see figure This organisational structure ensures manageMeeting in the calendar year in which the member knowledge, competencies and experience. on page 21). Our regions focus on supporting our ment is close to customers (globally, regionally and reaches 70 years of age. Corporate governance | 27 The Annual Management Cycle Hem ay pe yD l Board Strategy Day Hempel Summer Hempel Leadership trateg mm (May) School (June) Summit (November) Su Board S er Schoo l The Executive Hempel’s top Hempel’s top Management Board 25 leaders 150 leaders gather meets with the ­review and refine to set the agenda Hempel Board of the company for the year ahead Directors to review strategy at IMD H em the strategy plan Business School pe i t l Lead mm e r s h ip S u The Board of Directors is responsible for Hempel is dependent on global expertise and In 2018, the Board of Directors reached its goal of members of the Executive Management Board safeguarding the interests of the shareholder, experience at Board level. having two women on the Board. As communicated as well as around 100 of the Hempel Group’s while also considering all other stakeholders. At in the Annual Report 2017, the Board of Directors’ most senior leaders. When the programme is least once a year, the Board of Directors Today, the Board of Directors is a diverse group aim was to have at least two female Board fully implemented by 2021, the annual bonus assesses its most important tasks, based on the of individuals with a mix of global experience, members by the end of 2020. More information for members of Hempel’s senior leadership can overall strategic direction of the Hempel Group functional competencies and industry background, on our initiatives to increase diversity in Hempel range from 15-100 per cent of the base salary, and including the financial and managerial which ensures that it can fulfil its obligations. As can be found on page 47. subject to fulfilment of certain performance KPIs supervision of the Group. As part of its assesswell as in-depth knowledge of Hempel’s business, and employment at the Hempel Group at the ment, the Board of Directors evaluates the Board members possess expertise within a wide Remuneration time of the pay-out. performance of the Executive Management range of areas, from innovation, product developHempel offers its Board of Directors and Board on a continual basis. The Board of ment, online marketing and commercialisation Executive Management Board remuneration that The Executive Management Board has severance Directors and Executive Management Board have through to finance and human resources. is competitive with industry peers and other agreements in line with market terms. Conditions a formal agreement with the Hempel Foundation, global companies, as this enables it to attract for notice of termination are determined the ultimate owner of the Hempel Group, Each year the Board of Directors carries out a and retain competent and professional business individually for each member of the Executive regarding decisions that must be presented to self-evaluation of its competencies and skills, leaders and Board members. Management Board. The company has a general the Hempel Foundation for agreement. including those of the Chair and of individual fixed termination notice of 12-18 months if given Board members. The evaluation is carried out Remuneration of the Executive Management by the company and six months if given by a Competencies of the Board of Directors systematically, using clearly defined criteria to Board is based on a fixed-base salary, plus a member of the Executive Management Board. Hempel’s Board of Directors strives to recruit ensure the Board constantly improves both its target bonus of up to 67 per cent of the base Board members with a diverse range of own performance and its cooperation with the salary. Taking into account the potential to meet Members of the Board of Directors receive fixed mutually complementary skills and expertise. Executive Management Board. or fall short of the target, the effective potential remuneration and do not participate in any When the Board of Directors proposes new bonus range is 0–67 per cent of the base incentive programmes. Board members, a curriculum vitae and Diversity salary. In addition, a long-term incentive thorough description of the candidate’s The Board of Directors believes that diversity programme is in place, with a target of up to Board committees qualifications are made available to the strengthens any governing body and acknowledges 200 per cent of the base salary over three The Board of Directors establishes dedicated shareholder. Hempel is a global leader and, to the importance of diversity in general, including years, ending in 2018. A new long-term committees in order to supervise and solve successfully develop and maintain its position, diversity of gender, nationality and competencies. incentive programme was launched in 2018 for specific tasks. Currently, there are two commit28 | The Operational Management Board visiting our office in Singapore. tees: A Remuneration and Nomination Committee, with the assistance of a professional global and an Audit Committee. search firm. The Remuneration and Nomination Committee The committee convenes as necessary. However, According to its charter, the Remuneration and it has two fixed meetings during the year, in Nomination Committee assists the Board of February and November. Directors with the recruitment of its executives. In addition, it assists with the establishment of The Audit Committee remuneration for the Group’s executives and According to its charter, the Audit Committee’s helps ensure that the Group’s general remunerwork includes assisting the Board of Directors ation policies are balanced appropriately. In with fulfilling its oversight responsibilities for the 2018, the committee reviewed the existing financial reporting process, the system of internal long-term incentive programme and launched control, the internal and external audit process, a new three-year rolling programme, which is the Group’s process for monitoring compliance aligned with comparable listed companies. with laws and regulations and its Code of Conduct, as well as risk management. Further, Furthermore, the Remuneration and Nomination the Audit Committee assists the Board of Committee advises and makes recommendaDirectors with its tasks in regard to preparing the tions to the Board of Directors in relation to the annual report and the audit thereof and policies skills that the Board of Directors and the Executive related to it. Management Board must have to best perform their tasks. Each year, the committee evaluates In 2018, the committee reviewed initiatives to the Board of Directors and the Executive further strengthen compliance as well as the Management Board, and makes recommendainternal control framework, including updating tions to the Board of Directors in regard to any internal policies and procedures. In addition, the changes. The committee helps prepare the committee reviewed the Group’s whistleblower Board of Directors’ work by selecting candidates reporting system and whistleblower cases, the Corporate governance | 29 main accounting principles and judgments, and internal corporate guidelines. These outline to anonymously report potentially irregular or tax compliance and key risks. The committee Meeting activity the fundamental requirements for how Hempel unethical conduct through an internet portal, by also worked to ensure that Hempel was fully operates, and describe the responsibilities and email or via a local phone number. The system compliant with the new EU General Data Board of Directors ethical standards expected of all employees is an important tool to ensure that allegations of Protection regulation when it came into force. 11 January 7 May 27 November and relevant business partners. To ensure and irregular or unethical conduct are reported and 20 February 25 June document employees’ familiarity with the Code addressed quickly. All reports are treated Internal Audit function 4 April 28 September of Conduct, Business Ethics Policy and other confidentially and followed up by an objective The Group Internal Audit function is part of the key policies, relevant employees electronically and independent investigation. Group’s Finance function. The Head of Group sign off on their compliance within specific Audit Committee Internal Audit meets separately with both the areas. In addition, they take eLearning courses All reports are reviewed by the Compliance and Audit Committee and the Group’s external 16 March 14 September within anti-corruption and competition compliCorporate Responsibility Director, who recomauditor at least once a year. During 2018, the 20 June 26 November ance on a regular basis. mends appropriate action to the Ethics Committee. Internal Audit function continued to strengthen The Ethics Committee then approves how to internal procedures and compliance awareness Remuneration and Nomination Committee Since January 2018, all regional Finance handle reported issues and decides on approprithrough site visits. The results and recommenDirectors hold the role of Regional Compliance ate action following the investigation, including 20 February 27 November Officers. This role ensures compliance is dations were reported to both local and disciplinary action. The Audit Committee has an executive management. anchored in regional leadership teams and is oversight role and reviews both the effectiveness close to the business. Furthermore, all Hempel of the system for monitoring compliance with laws In accordance with its charter, the Audit is that the organisation in place and the plans employees except production, warehouse and and regulations and the results of compliance Committee annually considers the need for an laid out are adequate to ensure the necessary store staff completed Code of Conduct eLearning investigations and follow-up, including disciplinary Internal Audit function. Based on the recommenfocus on compliance for the entire Group. with a pass rate of 100 per cent. action. The Ethics Committee consists of: The dations of the Audit Committee, the Board of Group Chief Financial Officer, Group Chief People & Directors determines whether an Internal Audit Business ethics and compliance The whistleblower reporting system Culture Officer and Group General Counsel. function is required and whether internal control Hempel’s commitment to business ethics Hempel has had an internal whistleblower systems are adequate. The Board of Directors’ and compliance with international regulations reporting system since 2012. The current You can read more about our work in this area, assessment, which is based on the company’s and internal policies is anchored in its Code whistleblower system, launched in 2017, including reporting statistics from our whistlesize and the organisation of the Finance function, of Conduct, Business Ethics Policy and other enables any employee or external stakeholder blower system, on page 53. 30 | Hempel Ethics Hotline A link to the Hempel Ethics Hotline can be found on the Corporate responsibility section of hempel.com Corporate governance | 31 Risks We collaborate across the Group to continuously report, evaluate and mitigate risk. Hempel’s business covers many industry segments and a wide range of operational activities across the globe, resulting in a variety of risks and opportunities. Risks are therefore a natural part of our business and a precondition for being able to create value. Across the organisation, we continuously evaluate the risks we face and assess the level of acceptable risk within the business. This is done through a process and governance structure that outlines clear roles and responsibilities for identifying and reviewing risks as well as following up on mitigating actions. Risk governance The Board of Directors has final responsibility for risk management and is the approver of risk tolerance and risk mitigation activities. The Audit Committee monitors key risks, as well as the risk management process and governance structure. The Group Risk Committee has overall responsibility for running the risk management process and governance structure within the day-to-day busi­ness. It also evaluates consolidated risks and the status of mitigating actions at group level. The risk management process The split between external and internal risks has Risk matrix Every year, a group-wide risk analysis is carried not changed in the past year, but there has been out, in which risks are assessed and quantified movement in some of the underlying risks. One High 4, 5 by key employees in Hempel’s regions and Group risk that we can see is developing rapidly is functions. The risks are subsequently addressed growing health, safety and environmental (HSE) 2, 3 1 and mitigated internally to reduce risk exposure. regulation and sustainability requirements, as We focus on risks that can impact our ability to more countries are putting schemes in place to Impact execute our strategy in the next 2-5 years, as regulate the use of and exposure to chemicals. well as more operational risks in our regions. Internally, we are starting to see the effect of our Both types of risks are included in the key risk comprehensive Business Ethics programme as section below. well as our efforts to lower the risk of fire. Our business ethics risk and fire risk have reduced Low Key risks significantly as a result of these mitigating Likelihood The key risks described here are risks that we actions; business ethics to the extent that it is no Low High have assessed to be material to Hempel. This longer considered a key material risk. implies that the list is not exhaustive – there may 1 Market risk 3 Fluctuating raw 5 Workplace accidents be other risks that at a later point in time could material prices develop into material risks. We monitor these risks constantly and work continuously to improve 2 Increasing HSE 4 Fire, leading to and mitigate the risks in the best possible way. regulation and human injury sustainability or loss of requirements production Risks | 33 Risk Description Potential impact Actions Market risk Large structural changes to the coatings • Reduction in size of the coatings market Ongoing industry could come about through disruption • Weakening of Hempel’s competitive position • Monitoring of technology trends in Hempel’s end markets to end markets (e.g. the thermal power or oil • Potential significant impact on Hempel’s sales • Targeted product innovation through partnerships with customers and universities & gas markets), due to industry consolidation and earnings or new innovations that compete with current In 2018 coatings. • Launched the first internal Innovation Cup to engage the entire organisation in innovation • Began work to align Hempel’s M&A strategy with expected changes to end market and technology conditions Increasing HSE HSE legislation is growing (in some regions very • Potential loss of customers and market share Ongoing regulation and fast) and demands for sustainability are • Potential penalties and loss of business • Following internal standards for continuously monitoring and assessing any changes in legislation sustainability increasing from our customers. There is a risk • Use of a cross-functional forum to share and discuss future legislation requirements that we will not be able to adapt to these • Conducting an HSE evaluation of new products as part of the development process changes with the necessary speed and agility. In 2018 • Began project to create a group-wide standard for how to communicate any changes in HSE legislation that could potentially impact our products Fluctuating raw Raw materials account for a large share of our • Potential significant impact on Hempel’s Ongoing material prices costs, and prices are volatile. profit and cash flow • Mitigating of our raw material exposure mainly takes place through adjustment of sales prices and continuous process excellence improvements In 2018 • Improved management, control and governance of our sales price adjustment process • Established a detailed financial model, including cost of goods sold and governance Fire, leading to We have high standards for fire protection in • Potential for human injury Ongoing human injury or Hempel and personal safety is a basic • Potential loss of assets, production capacity • Hempel standards (based on NFPA and other global standards) for fire protection part of our loss of production consideration. However, fire is still a major risk or finished products design manual for factories as we handle flammable materials in our • Regular preventive maintenance of fire protection equipment factories and warehouses. • Regular training in fire safety • Upgrading of firefighting equipment as needed In 2018 • Launched Fire Protection Awareness eLearning for relevant staff Workplace There is a risk that our employees will be • Potential injuries to our people Ongoing accidents involved in workplace accidents, particularly our • Potential disruption to our operations and services • Developing and deploying safety leadership training as well as specific training for our services services staff who often work at non-Hempel staff sites. • Performing safety audits in our services organisation • Performing safety walks and safety risk assessments across our organisation In 2018 • Developed and implemented a Safety Excellence programme 34 | Risks | 35 Research & development Our ambition is to be the innovation leaders in our industry in the eyes of our customers and employees. As a global organisation with 15 R&D centres the research and development of coatings within in 12 countries, Hempel R&D works and collabothe field of PFP (passive fire protection). This is rates with colleagues, customers and other an important area of coatings and one in which external partners around the world. Our goal is we are determined to gain market share over the to develop innovative, sustainable and trusted next few years. For the past seven years, we have solutions that protect our customers’ assets and grown our portfolio of PFP coatings and now offer add value to their businesses. We do this by customers a range of proven and competitive developing new solutions and cutting-edge tech­products. Launched at the end of 2018, H ­ empa­fire no­logy, optimising existing solutions and supportPro 315 is the latest addition to our PFP range. ing our customers with expert technical advice. It is engineered to deliver fire protection for up to 90 minutes and improves productivity and reduces In Hempel R&D, we believe in working with the costs for applicators. So far, it has been well best. We hire the best talents in the industry received by customers. and provide excellent development opportunities. We also believe that good innovation requires Developing cost-saving and sustainable collaboration. We work closely with our customers, coatings for marine vessels combining our strong technical skills with customer Reducing operating costs and emissions is a big insight to develop solutions that make them more focus area for the marine industry. We are leaders successful. We also collaborate with external in this field, particularly in fuel savings derived from research groups, academia and suppliers, tapping ­hydrodynamic hull coatings, which reduce fuel into their R&D muscle to co-create cutting-edge consumption and associated CO2 emissions. technologies and new innovative solutions. In April 2018, our award-winning and market-­ leading fouling defence coating Hempaguard A new Centre of Excellence passed 1,000 ship applications. for passive fire protection We opened a new Centre of Excellence just outside Launched in September 2013, Hempaguard Barcelona, Spain in November 2018 focused on is based on our patented Actiguard technology, Research & development | 37 which combines a smooth silicone surface with conventional organic coatings, which means Reducing product complexity the consistent release of a small amount of offshore structures often require extensive Since 2016, we have worked hard across biocides through a hydrogel layer. This comb­ maintenance. customer segments, functions and geographies ination has proven far superior to conventional to clean up and carefully position our product self-polishing technology, even if a vessel Working with a customer, we developed range, in order to make it easy for our customers experiences long idle periods in fouling-­aggressive Hempatop Repel, a coating based on brand-new to find the best solution for their specific need. waters. This translates into average fuel savings technology that actively repels water from the So far, this initiative has resulted in a significant of 6 per cent over the entire docking interval coated surface. When combined with our patented decrease in the number of different products that compared to best-in-class antifoulings and Avantguard activated zinc primer, this results in a we sell and produce. At the same time, average equivalent reductions in CO2 emissions. coating system that is fast to apply and lasts much sales per product increased by 54 per cent in longer than any currently available conventional 2018 compared to 2016. In 2018, we further strengthened our Hempaguard coating system – and so can significantly reduce range with the launch of Nexus II. A specially both application and maintenance costs for We will continue our efforts in this area as we developed tiecoat, Nexus II enables Hempaguard customers. Hempatop Repel will be launched in see it as critical to being able to serve our applications in temperatures as low as 0°C and the first quarter of 2019. customers better while also reducing our makes it possible for ship owners to upgrade from operating costs through reduced assortment a conventional self-polishing antifouling coating to Growing in decorative complexity. Hempaguard (or other silicone-based Hempel Our decorative R&D organisation was strengthcoating) with just one intermediate link coat and ened in 2018 with the addition of new teams in without expensive abrasive blasting. Germany and France as part of our acquisition of J.W. Ostendorf in October. We already provide full Innovating with customers: Hempatop Repel solutions to our decorative customers, including We have been working with a leading oil & gas coatings for every part of a building or structure. company to solve continuing maintenance The new teams will add to our expertise, with the challenges in the downstream offshore oil & gas aim of developing one strong R&D unit in the sector. Protecting steel structures in demanding decorative arena. offshore environments is very difficult with 38 | “ Hempel R&D is a global organisation with 15 R&D centres in 12 countries” Research & development | 39 Corporate responsibility At Hempel, we are committed to embedding and increasing sustainability in our business activities. 40 | We continue to give our support to the UN Global Compact and our increased efforts have resulted in good progress in a number of initiatives related to human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. In 2018, we established Sustainability Excellence as a key part of our Journey to Excellence strategy. We will continue to build on this commitment to corporate responsibility throughout the Group during 2019. In addition, we worked with a thirdparty auditor in 2018 to improve our data collection and validation process. This has allowed us to broaden the scope of our reporting and to include an independent limited assurance statement on our sustainability data as a part of this report. The following pages describe our progress in this important area and constitute our Communication on Progress as required by the UN Global Compact, as well as information as required by the Danish Financial Statements Act §99a and 99b. Corporate responsibility | 41 Sustainable development goals The United Nations has identified 17 goals to help address the global challenges of poverty, inequality, climate change, environmental degradation, prosperity, peace and injustice. These are known as the UN Sustainable Development Through our owner the Hempel Foundation, Goals. In 2018, we began working some of the profits from our work are used with The Confederation of Danish to support good causes around the world. Industry on From Philanthropy to The biggest strategic focus area for the Foundation’s philanthropic work is empowBusiness, a project designed to ering children to learn, with particular focus help companies identify the on the education of children in need. Ensuring inclusive and quality education for Sustainable Development Goals in all is one of the UN Sustainable Developwhich their business activities can ment Goals, and education is seen as a way of empowering disadvantaged children to add most value and ensure that break the cycle of poverty. In 2018, the sustainability is further integrated Hempel Foundation donated almost EUR 10 million to new educational projects in 5 into their business model and countries, and it now supports projects in value chain. We selected five 15 countries around the globe. goals to concentrate on. You can read more about the Hempel Foundation at hempelfoundation.com and follow its work on LinkedIn. 42 | Supported through Closely links our Diversity and with our waste Equal Opportunity and energy Policy and associinitiatives ated activities Aligns with our Safety Excellence and Responsible Procurement programmes Supported by our work to phase out red raw materials Supported through our Code of Conduct and ethics commitments Corporate responsibility | 43 Health & safety At Hempel, we care about safety and want us all to have a safe workplace, no matter where we work. Our commitment to health and safety is embedded Phasing out red raw materials in our company values and Code of Conduct. In our We are committed to providing sustainable Group Health, Safety and Environmental Policy, solutions to our customers that minimise their we define our promise to comply with all applicable impact on the environment and do not jeopardise legal and non-regulatory ­requirements, to continuthe health and safety of their employees. Our ally improve and to work to prevent illness and Group Health, Safety and Environmental Policy injuries to our employees and the end-users of our sets out our commitment to seek out safer products. This means continually reviewing our materials when developing new products and work practices to eliminate risk and ultimately solutions. We also work to phase out materials ensure a healthy and safe work environment for that are potentially harmful to the environment all of our employees and business partners. and people’s health. We prioritise raw materials based upon their potential hazard and are In 2018, we reduced our accident frequency committed to reducing or phasing out the more rate by 24 per cent, down from 2.27 accidents hazardous substances – known as red raw per one million working hours in 2017 to 1.72 materials. Our priority list centres on carcinoin 2018. This significant reduction is a direct genic, mutagenic and reprotoxic (CMR) subresult of our Safety Excellence programme. stances. In 2018, we also included substances that the EU has decided to phase out in the Introducing Safety Walks Safety Excellence future. Launched at the end of 2017, our Safety Our Safety Excellence programme is about Excellence programme has helped us to achieve By the end of 2018, we had completely embedding a strong safety culture. To help a strong improvement in our safety performance. stopped the manufacture and sale of all coal achieve this, we introduced Safety Walks The initiative gives us a framework of procedures, tar products. We had also made good progress across our production sites in 2018. Safety standards and training to help eliminate unsafe on other red raw materials by changing our Walks involve production leaders walking the actions and conditions at work. Safety Excellence solvent blends and phasing out raw materials shop floor and taking time out to engage and covers our production sites, R&D facilities and that contain alkyl­phenol ethoxylates. In total, coach colleagues regarding safety. This services organisation and it had been launched we phased out 35 red raw materials in 2018. initiative has had positive results, and our in all our regions by the end of 2018. However, due to the extended scope of our colleagues are now more eager and willing to definition of red raw materials, consumption flag safety issues and work together to solve As part of the programme, we provide tools for increased by 4 per cent. When comparing them. In 2018, our Safety Walk pilot factory our colleagues to report and evaluate all incidents, like-for-like, we reduced consumption by 15 per in Dallas in the US identified and addressed including near misses. We encourage our teams cent. Our efforts continue and we aim to reduce 1,997 unsafe conditions through effective to share this information, which we use to help our total consumption of red raw materials in implementation of Safety Walks. prevent future accidents and repeat occurrences. 2019. Corporate responsibility | 45 Our people Our ambition is to provide a work environment in which every one of us can realise manager and employees. We also know from our Employee Engagement Survey that our top leaders have a higher engagement score than our middle managers and other employees. We will work to close this gap by ensuring that information is our full potential. cascaded from top management to the rest of the organisation. This is a key priority for us and ‘Engaging the full team’ was a key theme at this year’s Hempel Leadership Summit. We are a truly global company, working in more As in the last two years, employee Loyalty than 80 countries and across every time zone. remained at a very high level of 82 index points, This gives us our most important asset – a diverse indicating that most employees across the world group of colleagues, with different backgrounds are very committed to the company. and experience. We want to be known as the best employer in the industry and we believe that one Developing our leaders of the ways to do this is by creating a work Our transformational journey can only succeed if environment where everyone can develop. we are all engaged and passionate about moving our company forward. We believe that this Employee Engagement Survey engagement needs to be cascaded through the Once again, 93 per cent of our people worldorganisation. This begins with our leaders. In wide responded to our annual Employee 2018, we defined and introduced the 10 Engagement Survey. essential leadership competencies that all our leaders should know and take to heart. In 2019, The transformation we are currently going we will build learning and development solutions through requires major changes in the way to help our leaders across levels, functions and we operate globally and involves a significant geographies to further develop these ten cultural change for many of our people. This leadership competencies. has been reflected in the results of our annual Employee Engagement Survey over the last three years. In 2018, Satisfaction and Motivation increased from 69 index points in 2017 to 71 index points, which is above the global benchmark of 70 index points but still Satisfaction & Motivation below the best-in-class of 74+, which is where 69 71 we aspire to be. 68 60 The survey showed that there is great variation across regions. Our global employee Net Promoter 40 Score (eNPS) increased slightly, from 20 in 2017 to 21 in 2018. However, this was impacted by a decline in eNPS in Asia-Pacific, where major 20 organisational and strategic changes negatively affected results. Our experience shows that to “Our people are improve eNPS we must be committed and we must work visibly and directly with the individual 2016 2017 2018 our greatest asset” J.C. Hempel, founder Award-winning Let’s Talk Crown Paints won the British Coatings Federation – Excellence in Training Award for Let’s Talk in 2018, in recognition of how the Let’s Talk people development programme has helped embed a sustainable coaching and feedback culture throughout the organisation. We aim to have internal succession for a employment and career development decisions Learning and development through Let’s Talk Employee Net Promoter Score minimum of two-thirds of all future management are based on merit and made to support business Learning and development is a key priority positions. As part of this, we are working to -13 North Asia goals. In 2018, our talent management process across all functions and levels of our organisaprovide more focused development opportunities was rolled out globally and we assessed 2,200 tion. In 2017, we began the introduction of a South & for high potential talents in all three areas of East Asia 3 employees to identify development opportunities new employee development tool called Let’s leadership: leading self, leading others and and leadership potential. Talk. In 2018, 85 per cent of all employees Europe leading the business. When this work is complete & Africa 15 had a performance appraisal dialogue with in 2019, we will have programmes covering the North Our talent management process ensures that their direct manager and created an individual 29 full talent pipeline, from graduate through to America all our leaders are given equal opportunities development plan. The launch of Let’s Talk executive level. These programmes include: Head­ 29 for growth. However, we acknowledge that the has led to an increase in our Learning and quarters number of women in management does not Development score in our Employee Engagement • Pioneer. A global graduate programme to South 35 reflect the percentage of women in our organisaSurvey, up from 76 index points in 2016 and America attract high potential leadership talents at the tion. Our target is for 25 per cent of our manage78 index points in 2017 to 80 index points in beginning of their careers. (Launching in 2019.) Crown ment positions to be filled by women by 2022, 2018. This increase shows that our focus on Paints 40 • Explorer. A talent programme for mid-level which is equal to the percentage of women in our creating an organisation where the individual Middle leaders, focusing on building leadership East (East) 43 organisation. At the end of 2018, the percentage can develop is having an effect. capabilities and accelerating personal Middle of women in management positions was 21 per development. (Revised in 2018.) East (West) 55 cent, up from 19 per cent at the end of 2017. As a pilot project, production and warehouse • Challenger. A talent programme for the most The Hempel To support our goal in this area, we introduced a employees at our facilities in Portugal went 21 senior leaders in our organisation, with focus Group new 12-month mentoring programme, in which through the Let’s Talk process for the first time on strategy, execution and leadership for female leaders are assigned a mentor to help in 2018. Following the success of the pilot, Let’s executives. (Launched in 2018.) them develop in their current role and prepare Talk will be rolled out to all our production and for future roles. So far, 18 female leaders have warehouse employees around the world in 2019. Diversity and equal opportunity begun the programme. In the future, we expect through talent management 8-12 female talents to participate in this Our Diversity and Equal Opportunity Policy programme each year. applies to all Hempel offices and ensures that all Corporate responsibility | 47 Responsible supply chain management We extend our commit­ ment to the UN Global Compact and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights to our business partners through our Responsible Procure­ment programme. 48 | Our high standards are reflected in our Supplier These will be carried out in early 2019. If needed, and outbound transporters were interviewed at Policy, in which we state what we expect from our we will request the supplier to commit to an two of our major sites in Europe. No signs of suppliers regarding quality, environment, health improvement plan or we will find alternative forced labour exploitation were found. We will and safety, human rights and business ethics. suppliers. continue to monitor this risk in 2019. Our Responsible Procurement Committee ensures legal compliance and progress in this Introducing our Business Partner Conflict minerals important area. Code of Conduct We do not use conflict minerals – such as In 2018, we introduced an updated Business tantalum, tin, gold or tungsten – or their derivatives Our Responsible Procurement programme Partner Code of Conduct clearly describing what in our products. This means we already comply The Hempel Responsible Procurement programme we expect from our suppliers. Adherence to our with the requirements in future legislation in the EU consists of: Business Partner Code of Conduct is mandatory Conflict Minerals Regulation, as well as the existing • An independent annual evaluation of our for all suppliers globally and is an integrated part Dodd-Frank Act Section 1502 on due diligence of suppliers, based on risk related to country and of our newly introduced global e-sourcing system. conflict minerals. product category, conducted by EcoVadis Our procurement staff were trained in how to use • Thorough screening of all new raw material the Business Partner Code of Conduct when in suppliers worldwide dialogue with suppliers in order to ensure their • Selected focus projects based on risk analysis commitment to the Code. • Training of internal staff Due diligence of forced labour One key focus area for us is ensuring good Our Human Rights Policy clearly states that we working conditions for the employees in our do not employ child labour or forced labour and supply chain, and this is one of the things we that we extend this commitment to our business evaluate our suppliers on as a part of our partners. The transport sector in general has Responsible Procurement programme. During been identified as a high-risk area for exploitation our annual evaluation of suppliers in 2018, of forced labour. Therefore, due diligence of our six suppliers received a low score and were transport suppliers was selected as a special therefore identified for an onsite visit. focus project in 2018. As a consequence, inbound Corporate responsibility | 49 Environment At Hempel, we work to improve our environmental performance and mitigate our climate change impacts. 50 | Our environmental commitment involves helping Cutting waste across the Group our customers to reduce their own environmental In 2018, our efforts in waste reduction focused The Waste Hierachy Local focus: Diverting finished goods impact through the products, solutions and on improving the quality and accuracy of the data from landfill in the UK services we provide, as well as working to reduce we collect. As a result of this work, we are able Reuse Our production unit in Darwen, UK has a energy consumption and waste across our own to include this data in our verified assurance special team dedicated to waste manageoperations. This commitment is defined in our statement in our annual report for the first time Recycling ment. As part of its work, finished goods Group Health, Safety and Environmental Policy, this year. The data provides us with a sound that are close to expiry, have damaged which refers to environmental compliance, the baseline to work from and will help us drive Incineration packaging or are otherwise considered prevention of pollution and continuous improvement in the future. redundant are sorted by type and colour, improvement. Landfill and then sent to a local coatings supplier We asked all our regions to create waste where they are treated, repackaged and Helping customers improve reduction plans in 2018, including quantified reused. In 2018, 436 tons of finished We collaborate with our customers to find inno­and timebound deliverables. Initiatives in goods were reused in this way. vative solutions that address their ­environ­mental these plans included optimising our use of raw challenges. This is achieved through the products materials, improving wastewater treatment and and services we offer – such as hull coatings for solvent recovery and working with suppliers ocean-going vessels that reduce fuel consumpto mitigate packaging waste. Waste disposal Local focus: Compressor use in Malaysia tion and emissions – as well as by working 14% At our production site in Kluang, Malaysia, actively with customers to develop new solutions Adopting the waste hierarchy that further reduce their carbon impact. We are taking steps across Hempel to increase 25% compressors account for around one-fifth our work with the waste hierarchy. This involves of total energy consumption. In 2018, we Reducing energy consumption looking at our waste management practices and put together a team to study the machinIn 2018, we focused on electricity savings, using finding ways to improve; we look for opportunities ery’s operating patterns, review data and power monitoring data to reduce consumption. to reduce and reuse our waste materials, with identify opportunities to control compressed More than 60 per cent of our energy consumpthe elimination of waste at source being the air consumption. Improvement actions were 15% identified, including providing additional tion is from electricity. In 2018, all of our regions preferred option wherever possible. 46% committed to energy saving plans that target training to operators, repairing air leaks, electricity. These involve introducing out-of-hours Reuse establishing guidelines for air pressure shutdown procedures, replacing equipment with Recycling settings and improving planning of producHow our hazardous and tion running times. This work resulted in a more energy-efficient equivalents and optimising Incineration non-hazardous waste streams systems and machinery. These efforts resulted in Landfill were disposed of in 2018 27 per cent reduction in compressor energy a 1 per cent decrease in kilowatt hours per litre use, bringing considerable environmental of paint produced in 2018 ‒ and we forecast and efficiency benefits. higher savings in 2019. Corporate responsibility | 51 Ethical behaviour The Hempel business is built on trust – the trust of our customers, business partners and colleagues. We earn that trust by inspiring confidence through the way we do business. 52 | Hempel is committed to conducting business To maintain our speak up culture, we launched • We launched a new Business Partner Code ethically, respectfully and honestly. Our Code a global Hempel Ethics Hotline awareness Whistleblower statistics of Conduct that sets out what we expect of our of Conduct does more than just codify rules of campaign. Our management teams continue suppliers, joint-venture partners, toll manufacturconduct; it is the very foundation of how we to talk about the right ethical behaviour, openly 2016 2017* 2017** 2018*** ers, distributors, agents, consultants and other behave and go about our business each and and frequently, and business ethics are very Cases business partners. The Business Partner Code every day. much a part of our values and how we reported 19 51 51 51 of Conduct takes into account the UN Global conduct business. Hereof Compact’s ten fundamental principles within the substantiated 10 13 22 7 Sustaining a strong ethical culture at Hempel areas of human rights, labour rights, the Hereof not In 2018, we further strengthened our high • The frequency in which international sanctions substantiated 9 18 27 20 environment and anti-corruption. We expect our ethical standards across the entire organisation are introduced or amended by individual Cases under business partners to implement and adhere to through a number of initiatives and actions. countries or groups of countries has increased investigation 0 20 2 24 the standards in the Code and to set the same notably in recent years. Therefore, we strength* As published in the Annual Report for 2017 (status as of 2 March 2018) expectations for their own business partners. • As in 2017, all employees except production, ened our sanctions and export control ** 2017 case substantiation rate updated as of 31 December 2018 *** Status as of 31 December 2018 ware­house and store staff completed our compliance by updating our procedures, • We joined forces with other multinational annual mandatory Code of Conduct eLearning. guidelines and policies, and training key companies, non-governmental organisations The eLearning was tailor-made for Hempel by colleagues to ensure these are understood and the Danish Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Hempel and inspired by real-life challenging and followed. and had complete confidence in the authorities the Fight Against Facilitation Payments Initiative situations faced by some of our employees. throughout this process and we have made (FAFPI). One of the main objectives of FAFPI is In total, 3,743 employees took the eLearning, • As mentioned in last year’s annual report, substantial investments internally and to collect real-life data on facilitation payment with a pass rate of 100 per cent. Hempel self-reported a number of uncovered externally to prevent compliance issues from requests. Data submitted through FAFPI is illegal sales practices found in Germany, other happening in the future. shared with the Danish Ministry of Foreign • Our Hempel Ethics Hotline, introduced last countries in Europe and in Asia to SØIK, the Affairs, which can use diplomatic channels to year, is now available at nearly all Hempel Danish State Prosecutor for Serious Economic Ensuring ethical behaviour beyond Hempel address the issue with its local counterparts in locations. In 2018, we received 51 whistleand International Crime, in April 2017. The In 2018, we took steps to ensure our high ethical order to terminate the demands. Hempel blower reports from 20 countries. The relatively unlawful practices were stopped immediately standards reach beyond Hempel to our suppliers is a founding member of FAFPI. high amount of reports confirms that we have and the people responsible were replaced. and other stakeholders. a sound ‘speak up’ culture and our employees Hempel has now been fined for these illegal trust us to act upon the reports we receive. practices. Hempel has cooperated fully with Corporate responsibility | 53 Hempel Leadership Summit For the Hempel Leadership Summit this year, our top leaders and selected talents from across the Hempel Board, who provided facts and personal insight from the industrial transformation of globe gathered in Texas, US from 31 October to 1 Danfoss, a global engineering powerhouse that November. The event focused on how we can underwent a similar transformation to the one that accelerate execution of our Journey to Excellence Hempel is currently going through. by being very explicit about our priorities for the coming year and engaging our global workforce in The Hempel Leadership Summit is part of our Annual getting these priorities done. Management Cycle. It ensures we are aligned across our regions and functions, and participants must During the two days, participants shared best meet with their teams after the event to ensure full practices from across the Hempel globe, took part understanding and engagement across the Hempel in three intensive and highly focused learning labs organisation. Since it was first held in 2016, the and visited our facilities in nearby Conroe. In total, summit has become one of the most important more than 50 colleagues took to the stage to talk events in the Hempel calendar. According to a survey about our progress and how we can further held immediately after the event this year, 94 per improve. One of the highlights of the event was the cent of participants felt the event gave them the guest speaker Eric Alström, Deputy Chair of the feeling of being part of a great company. 54 | “The Hempel Leadership Summit has become one of the most important events in the Hempel calendar” Corporate responsibility | 55 Official As Official Coatings Partner to World Sailing, Hempel is embracing its marine heritage and celebrating the power coatings of collaboration and performance at the highest level. partner to World Sailing 56 | Corporate responsibility As Official Coatings Partner of World Sailing, Hempel is: • Title partner of the Hempel World Cup Series 2019-2022 • Title sponsor of the Hempel Youth Sailing World Championships 2019 • Official event partner to World Sailing Hempel entered into its first full sponsor partner­partnership with World Sailing in 2018 to be ship in 2018 when it became title sponsor the Official Coatings Partner of World Sailing up of the Hempel Sailing World Championships 2018. to and including 2022. We are looking forward The event, which took place in August in Aarhus, to continuing our excellent collaboration with Denmark, was the largest sailing event ever held, World Sailing over the coming years, and using with more than 1,400 sailors from 90 nations. our partnership to increase brand recognition, get closer to customers, increase employee In Hempel, we are proud to have been an engagement through local events in all our integrated partner for this very successful regions, and support sailors and the sport of event. Our name was seen on televisions in 59 sailing across the world. countries with a potential audience of more than 1 billion people, and we received numerous Sailing and Hempel: A natural fit mentions on traditional and social media, driving The sport of sailing is a natural fit for Hempel. brand awareness across the globe. The champiOur roots are in the maritime industry and we onships were also an excellent opportunity to get share several values with elite sailing: We see closer to customers and engage our employees. every challenge as achievable and every race We held VIP events for selected customers, and worth winning. By sponsoring World Sailing, we our employees joined the excitement through are giving back to sailors, the maritime world specially arranged sailing days and a specially and the sea – and giving more customers and created online sailing regatta competition. people around the world the chance to learn about the advantages of using Hempel’s World Sailing’s official partner services and solutions. Following the success of the Hempel Sailing World Sailing World Championships, we entered into a new World Sailing is the world governing body for the sport of sailing, recognised by the International Olympic Committee and the International Paralympic Committee. We believe that our work should contribute to the societies in which we operate and the world in general. Community engagement “ I have seen the poverty, but I have also seen the difference that the Foundation is making, and it’s great to see” John Vause, Merchandising Sales Supervisor Combating hunger in Conroe In Montgomery County in the US, 85,000 people (17 per cent of the population) live below the poverty line and are food insecure. In 2018, our Conroe office worked with the Montgomery County Food Bank and Crisis At Hempel, social commitment is part of our area of the world, especially for the indigenous Assistance Center to distribute food to 250 values and identity. For more than 70 years, our Quechua Indians, many of whom live in extreme Girl’s Day in Science families in need. owner the Hempel Foundation has used part of poverty. Quechua children attend school, but Girl’s Day in Science is a national camthe dividends from our work to support good what they learn is limited because the primary paign held in Denmark each year that gives causes around the world – and our local offices official language is Spanish, which is very hard schoolgirls the chance to meet women are encouraged to support causes or events that for them to follow. In addition, malnutrition and working in the sciences. For Girl’s Day in can have a positive impact on their local hunger have an effect on their concentration and Science 2018, 22 girls from a local school communities. capability to learn. visited our R&D facility in Lyngby, where they learned how our coatings reduce CO2 Employee volunteers The Foundation has been working in this area emissions from ships, among other things. We give a number of Hempel employees the since 2016 to improve learning outcomes by After the visit, 43 per cent of the students chance to volunteer at one of the educational developing a relevant intercultural bilingual Painting brighter local communities said that they were now more likely to projects supported by the Hempel Foundation. education. Project activities include training choose an education within science. Crown Paints supports a number of local During the trips, the employees help out at the teachers, developing bilingual teaching materials project and see for themselves the impact that it and building school greenhouses, where the community projects across the UK each is having. When they return, the employees must children learn how to grow food. year. In 2018, this included donating paint inform their colleagues about the project and the to the Scouts Association’s new National Foundation’s work. Hempel pays the employees’ During the eight-day trip, the volunteers led Activity Centre; Catherine Booth House in travel costs and expenses; the employees donate activities with the children, teaching them about Portsmouth, which provides temporary their time. In previous years, employees have given their countries and the wider world. They also accommodation to young mothers and their time to projects in Cambodia, Mozambique, learnt about the children’s lives and their dreams vulnerable families; and Chesterfield Bolivia, Indonesia, Tanzania and Vietnam. for the future. For the children and the volunCricket Club. teers, it was an amazing experience that they Making a difference in Peru will always remember. In 2018, nine Hempel employees volunteered at the Hempel Foundation project in Lares, high in the Andes Mountains in Peru. Life is hard in this Corporate responsibility | 59 Sustainability data Accounting principles Percentage of employees with a Hempel Lost time accidents are defined as the occupaDisclosure requirements, cf. §99a and 99b Scope and consolidation of the Danish Financial Statements Act email address completed and signed-off tional accidents recorded in our SharePoint Unless otherwise stated, the sustainability data on Code of Conduct training system that have resulted in at least one day’s is reported based on the same principles as the Disclosure requirements See page The percentage is calculated as the number of absence following the day of the accident. Only financial statements. Thus, the sustainability employees with a Hempel email address who accidents involving employees employed directly data includes consolidated data from the parent 99a have completed and signed off on the Code of or supervised by Hempel are reported. Accidents Policies on company Hempel A/S and subsidiaries controlled • Human rights • 49 Conduct eLearning in our learning management occurring when commuting to or from work are by Hempel A/S. The environmental indicators • Worker and social conditions • 45 & 47 system out of the total number of employees with not included. The number of working hours used cover all activities at locations where we have • Environment and climate • 51 a Hempel email address during the year. to calculate the lost time accident frequency is production. This includes 28 factories and 12 • Anti-corruption • 53 Employees with management responsibility as based on the number of full-time employees R&D facilities in 23 countries, which we refer to Due diligence process • 49 well as employees in our Sales, Finance and working for Hempel, multiplied by the most recent below as ‘Hempel sites’. Data relating to lost time Compliance functions receive Extended Code of OECD average for actual working hours of 1,759 accidents is reported according to operational Activities during the year Conduct eLearning. All other employees receive hours per employee per year (2017). • Human rights • 48-49 scope, which means that data is included with Basic Code of Conduct eLearning. The percent• Worker and social conditions • 44-49 100 per cent consolidation for operations where age includes employees who have completed Consumption of red raw materials Hempel is responsible for safety, including the • Environment and climate • 50-51 either the Extended or Basic training. ‘Red raw materials’ is a subset of raw materials health and safety of external workers. Data from • Anti-corruption • 52-53 used in our production, which is monitored and acquisitions and divestments is included/ KPIs and results • 60-61 (data table) Compliance cases reported compiled in our ERP system. The consumption of excluded from the date of acquisition/divestThe number of compliance cases includes all red raw materials is calculated as kilograms of ment. Changes made to historically reported data Sustainability risks • 32-35 cases recorded in the Hempel Ethics Hotline red raw materials registered in our ERP system will only be commented on if material. 99b system, operated by Navex, which are handled in per 1,000 litres of product produced. The volume Diversity in the Board of Directors • 28 accordance with the guidelines for handling of paint produced is calculated based on Business changes in 2018 impacting the (including current gender composition whistleblower reports, as approved by the Audit production data in our ERP system. Consolidated Sustainability Data Statement and target) Committee. Compliance cases can be reported • Acquisition of J.W. Ostendorf Diversity in management (including policy, • 46-47 directly through the Hempel Ethics Hotline; by A raw material is considered a red raw material if it J.W. Ostendorf data is included in the sustaina­ activities during the year and results) email to whistle-blower@hempel.com; by letter, carries any of the following hazard classifications bility data from 1 October 2018 except for the telephone or email directly to management; or by according to the United Nations’ Globally Harm­ following three indicators: Code of Conduct internal finding. onised System for Classification and Labelling: training, compliance cases and employee • Carcinogen mutagen reprotoxic (CMR) category engagement. Lost time accident frequency 1A or 1B Lost time accident frequency is calculated as the • Acute toxic category 1, 2 or 3 number of lost time accidents per one million Or if the raw material has the following working hours. properties: 60 | • Persistent, bioaccumulative and/or toxic Carbon footprint scope 2 our production is registered and managed in our Key Performance Indicator 2018 2017 chemicals (PBT) or very persistent, very Scope 2 covers indirect emissions from purchased EHS system, ChemMate. The VOC values used bioaccumulative (vPvB) electricity and district heating at Hempel sites, for sold products are equivalent to the ones Ethical behaviour Or is listed on the REACH Authorisation list which is registered in our SharePoint system. The presented on the product safety data sheet. All % of employees with a Hempel email 100% 100% (Annex XIV) from 1 January 2018. consumption of electricity and district heating is VOCs are converted to carbon dioxide equivalent address completed and signed off on converted to CO2 emissions by applying the emissions using xylene as a representative Code of Conduct training Energy location-based conversion factors from the profile. Compliance cases reported 51 51 Energy consumption is defined as the energy International Energy Agency (2016 & 2017) and used at Hempel’s production sites and includes Defra (2017 and 2018 v1.01) database. Toll manufacturing Health & safety the amount of electricity, fuel, district heating The calculation of CO2 from toll manufacturing is Lost time accident frequency 1.72 2.271 and gas consumption registered in our Share­ Carbon footprint scope 3 based on the amount of product that has been (number/1,000,000 working hours) Point system. All energy consumption at Hempel Scope 3 covers the following: waste, consumed manufactured at external partners, which is Consumption of red raw materials 8.803 8.47 sites is consolidated based on invoices. Energy raw materials used as ingredients and purchased registered in our ERP system, under the assump(kg/1,000L paint produced) consumption (kWh/1,000L paint produced) is packaging, and volatile organic compounds tion that one ton of toll-produced goods requires Environment calculated as kWh per 1,000L paint produced. (VOCs) in products and toll manufacturing. These the same energy and waste generation as for The volume of paint produced is calculated are outlined in more detail below. Hempel production (i.e. the impact of these Energy (kWh/1,000L paint produced) 276 274 based on production data in our ERP system. third-party emissions is estimated using the Waste generation 49 NA Waste Hempel average material, energy and waste (kg/1,000L paint produced) Waste generation We apply the same methods for waste in scope 3 impacts per ton of paint). Carbon footprint scope 1 0.02 0.02 Waste generation is based on amounts of waste as in Waste generation. Waste is converted to (tons CO2/1,000L paint produced recorded from all Hempel sites with production, CO2 equivalents using Defra (2018 v1.01) Employee Engagement – Response rate Carbon footprint scope 2 0.09 0.10 including factories, R&D facilities and warehousconversion factors. Hempel conducts an employee engagement (tons CO2/1,000L paint produced) ing, which are registered in Hempel’s SharePoint survey once a year. All employees are invited to Carbon footprint scope 32 4.05 NA (tons CO2/1,000L paint produced) system. Waste generation is measured based on Ingredients participate. The response rate is calculated as invoices or supporting documentation, such as The calculation of CO2 from ingredients used in the number of employees who responded to the Our people weighing documents. Waste generation Hempel’s production is based on the type and full survey out of the total number of employees. (kg/1,000L paint produced) is calculated as kg amount of raw materials consumed during the Employee Engagement Response rate 93% 93% waste per 1,000L paint produced. The volume of year, which is registered in our ERP system. For Employee Engagement eNPS Employee Engagement eNPS 21 20 paint produced is calculated based on produceach type of raw material, a relevant conversion The employee Net Promoter Score (eNPS) is Employee Engagement 71 69 tion data in our ERP system. Waste includes from ecoinvent 3.4 or IPCC (2013) characterisacalculated using the answer distribution from the Satisfaction & Motivation hazardous and non-hazardous streams, both tion factors is applied to the amount used. statement: ‘I would recommend others to seek Employee Engagement 80 78 solid and liquid waste. employment at the Hempel Group’. We calculate Learning & Development Packaging the eNPS by taking the percentage of employees 1 2017 data restated following a Group review of lost time injuries at site level Carbon footprint scope 1 The calculation of CO2 from packaging used in who answered 9-10 and subtract the percentage in 2018. 2 Scope 3 includes: consumption of raw materials, purchase of packaging Scope 1 covers direct emissions originating Hempel’s production is based on volumes who answered 1-6 on the 10-point scale. material, CO2 from toll manufacturing, CO2 from waste treatment and VOC from Hempel sites. Scope 1 emissions are purchased by material type during the year, which in products sold. 3 Scope expanded compared to 2017 – see accounting principles. Due to the linked to the energy used in the form of fuel are registered in our ERP system. For each type of Employee Engagement – Satisfaction expanded scope, total consumption increased by 4 per cent. When comparing like-for-like, consumption reduced by 15 per cent. (fuel oils and natural gas) by Hempel, which is packaging, a relevant conversion factor from Defra & Motivation and Learning & Development registered in our SharePoint system. The (2018 v1.01) is applied to the amount used. These scores are based on a number of consumption of fuels is converted to CO2 questions included in the employee engagement emissions by applying relevant Greenhouse Volatile organic compounds in products survey. Answers are given on a 10-point scale Gas Conversion Factors for Com­pany Reporting The calculation of CO2 from VOCs in products is and are converted to index figures on a scale from the Department for Environment, based on the amount of VOCs in products sold from 0 to 100. Food & Rural Affairs (Defra) in the UK for the (i.e. grams per litre of product sold). Data relating relevant year. to products sold is registered in our ERP system and the VOC content of the ingredients used in Corporate responsibility | 61 The Board of Directors of Hempel A/S: Richard Sand, Eric Alström, Marianne Wiinholt, Søren P. Olesen, Leif Jensen, Susanna Schneeberger, Helle Fiedler, Henrik Bach Falkenberg, Kim Scheibel. Management’s statement The Board of Directors and the Executive Executive Management Board have today considered and Management adopted the Annual Report of Hempel A/S for the Board financial year 1 January – 31 December 2018. The Annual Report is prepared in accordance with the Danish Financial Statements Act. In our opinion, the financial statements and the consolidated financial statements give a true and Henrik Andersen Lars Jønstrup Dollerup Lars Petersson Peter Kirkegaard Michael Hansen fair view of the financial position at 31 December Group President & Chief Executive Vice President & Executive Vice President & Executive Vice President & Chief Executive Vice President & Executive Officer (CEO) Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Chief Operating Officer (COO) People & Culture Officer (CPCO) Chief Commercial Officer (CCO) 2018 of the company and the Group and of the results of the company’s and Group’s operations and cash flows for 2018. In our opinion, Management’s Review includes a true and fair account of the development in the operations and financial circumstances of the Group and the parent company, of the results for the year and of the financial position of the Group and the parent company as well as a description Board of Directors of the most significant risks and elements of uncertainty facing the Group and the parent company. In our opinion, the sustainability data represents a reasonable, fair and balanced representation of Richard Sand Eric Alström Marianne Wiinholt Søren P. Olesen Leif Jensen the Group’s sustainability performance and is Chair Deputy Chair presented in accordance with the stated accounting policies. We recommend that the Annual Report be adopted at the Annual General Meeting. Susanna Schneeberger Helle Fiedler Henrik Bach Falkenberg Kim Scheibel Kgs. Lyngby, 1 March 2019 Elected by the employees Elected by the employees Elected by the employees Management’s statement | 63 Independent To the shareholder of Hempel A/S Opinion In our opinion, the consolidated financial does not cover Management’s Review, and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. auditor’s statements and the parent company financial In connection with our audit of the financial statements give a true and fair view of the statements, our responsibility is to read Manage­ financial position of the Group and the parent ment’s Review and, in doing so, consider whether company at 31 December 2018, and of the Management’s Review is materially inconsistent report results of the Group’s and the parent company’s with the financial statements or our knowledge operations as well as the consolidated cash obtained during the audit, or otherwise appears flows for the finan­cial year 1 January to be materially misstated. Moreover, it is our 31 December 2018 in accordance with the responsibility to consider whether Manage­ment’s Danish Financial Statements Act. Review provides the information required under the Danish Financial Statements Act. We have audited the consolidated financial statements and the parent company financial Based on the work we have performed, in our statements of Hempel A/S for the financial year view, Management’s Review is in accordance 1 January 31 December 2018, which comprise with the consolidated financial statements and income statement, balance sheet, statement of the parent company financial statements and has changes in equity and notes, including a been prepared in accordance with the requiresummary of significant accounting policies, for ments of the Danish Financial Statements Act. both the Group and the parent company, as well We did not identify any material misstatement as the consolidated statement of cash flows in Management’s Review. (“financial statements”). Management’s responsibilities Basis for opinion for the financial statements We conducted our audit in accordance with Management is responsible for the preparation International Standards on Auditing (ISAs) and the of consolidated financial statements and parent additional requirements applicable in Den­mark. com­pany financial statements that give a true Our responsibilities under those standards and and fair view in accordance with the Danish requirements are further described in the Auditor’s Financial Statements Act, and for such internal Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial control as management determines is necessary Statements section of our report. We are indepen­ to enable the preparation of financial statements dent of the Group in accordance with the Inter­na­ that are free from material misstatement, tional Ethics Standards Board for Accountants’ whether due to fraud or error. Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (IESBA Code) and the additional requirements applicable In preparing the financial statements, managein Denmark, and we have fulfilled our other ethical ment is responsible for assessing the Group’s responsibilities in accordance with these requireand the parent company’s ability to continue as a ments. We believe that the audit evidence we have going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a related to going concern and using the going basis for our opinion. concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements unless management either Statement on Management’s Review intends to liquidate the Group or the parent Management is responsible for Management’s company or to cease operations, or has no Review. Our opinion on the financial statements realistic alternative but to do so. Auditor’s responsibilities for whether due to fraud or error, design and significant doubt on the Group’s and the We communicate with those charged with the audit of the financial statements perform audit procedures responsive to those parent company’s ability to continue as a going governance regarding, among other matters, Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurrisks, and obtain audit evidence that is concern. If we conclude that a material the planned scope and timing of the audit and ance about whether the financial statements as sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis uncertainty exists, we are required to draw significant audit findings, including any significant a whole are free from material misstatement, for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a attention in our auditor’s report to the related deficiencies in internal control that we identify whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an material misstatement resulting from fraud is disclosures in the financial statements or, if during our audit. auditor’s report that includes our opinion. higher than for one resulting from error as such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurfraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional opinion. Our conclusions are based on the ance, but is not a guarantee that an audit omissions, misrepresentations, or the override audit evidence obtained up to the date of our conducted in accordance with ISAs and the of internal control auditor’s report. However, future events or Hellerup, 1 March 2019 additional requirements applicable in Denmark • Obtain an understanding of internal control conditions may cause the Group and the will always detect a material misstatement when relevant to the audit in order to design audit parent company to cease to continue as a PricewaterhouseCoopers it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or procedures that are appropriate in the going concern Statsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab error and are considered material if, individually circumstances, but not for the purpose of • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure CVR no. 33771231 or in the aggregate, they could reason­­­­­expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of and contents of the financial statements, ably be expected to influence the economic the Group’s and the parent company’s internal including the disclosures, and whether the decisions of users taken on the basis of these control financial statements represent the underlying financial statements. • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting transactions and events in a manner that gives policies used and the reasonableness of a true and fair view Lars Baungaard As part of an audit conducted in accordance with accounting estimates and related disclosures • Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence State Authorised Public Accountant ISAs and the additional requirements applicable made by management regarding the financial information of the mne23331 in Denmark, we exercise professional judgment • Conclude on the appropriateness of manageentities or business activities within the Group and maintain professional scepticism throughout ment’s use of the going concern basis of to express an opinion on the consolidated the audit. We also: accounting in preparing the financial statefinancial statements. We are responsible for ments and, based on the audit evidence the direction, supervision and performance of obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists the group audit. We remain solely responsible Mads Melgaard • Identify and assess the risks of material State Authorised Public Accountant misstatement of the financial statements, related to events or conditions that may cast for our audit opinion. mne34354 Auditor’s report | 65 Independent limited To the stakeholders of Hempel A/S Hempel A/S (Hempel) engaged us to provide limited assurance on the Sustainability Data on page 61 in the Annual Report of Hempel for the assurance report year ended 31 December 2018 (the “Selected Information”). Our conclusion on the Sustainability Based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained: • Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Selected Information in Hempel’s Annual Report for the year ended Data 2018 31 December 2018 has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Accounting Principles. This conclusion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remainder of our report. What we are assuring The scope of our work was limited to assurance over: • The Sustainability Data on page 61 in Hempel’s Annual Report (the “Selected Information”). Professional standards applied and level of assurance We performed a limited assurance engagement in accordance with International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (Revised) ‘Assurance Engagements other than Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial Information’. A limited assurance engagement is substantially less in scope than a reasonable assurance engagement in relation to both the risk assessment procedures, including an understanding of internal control, and the procedures performed in response to the assessed risks; consequently, the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had a reasonable assurance engagement been performed. Our independence and quality control to draw to evaluate and measure non-financial Hempel’s responsibilities Hellerup, 1 March 2019 We have complied with the Code of Ethics for information allows for different, but acceptable, Hempel’s management are responsible for: Professional Accountants issued by the Inter­ measurement tech­niques and can affect compara­ • Designing, implementing and maintaining PricewaterhouseCoopers national Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, bility between entities and over time. internal controls over information relevant to Statsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab which includes independence and other ethical the preparation of the Selected Information CVR no. 33771231 requirements founded on fundamental principles Work performed that is free from material misstatement, of integrity, objectivity, professional competence We are required to plan and perform our work in whether due to fraud or error and due care, confidentiality and professional order to consider the risk of material misstatement • Establishing objective Accounting Principles for behaviour. The firm applies International Standard of the Selected Information. In doing so, we: preparing the Selected Information on Quality Control 1 and accordingly maintains a • Conducted interviews with data owners to • Measuring and reporting the Selected comprehensive system of quality control including understand the key processes and controls for Information based on the Accounting Principles Lars Baungaard State Authorised Public Accountant documented policies and procedures regarding reporting site performance data • The content of the Sustainability Data in mne23331 compliance with ethical requirements, professional • Obtained an understanding of the key Hempel’s Annual Report 2018. standards and applicable legal and regulatory processes and controls for measuring, requirements. Our work was carried out by an recording and reporting the Selected Our responsibility independent multidisciplinary team with experi­ Information We are responsible for: ence in sustainability reporting and assurance. • On a selective basis performed reviews of the • Planning and performing the engagement to Mads Melgaard State Authorised Public Accountant Selected Information at corporate head office obtain limited assurance about whether the mne34354 Understanding reporting to check that data had been appropriately Selected Information has been prepared, in and measurement methodologies recorded, consolidated and reported all material respects, in accordance with the The Selected Information needs to be read and • Performed analysis of data from reporting Accounting Principles and in this context is free understood together with the Accounting Principles sites, selected on the basis of risk and from material misstatement, whether due to (pages 60-61) in Hempel’s Annual Report 2018, materiality to the Group fraud or error which management of Hempel is solely responsible • Considered the disclosure and presentation • Forming an independent conclusion, based for selecting and applying. The absence of a of the Selected Information. on the procedures we have performed and the significant body of established practice on which evidence we have obtained • Reporting our conclusion to the stakeholders of Hempel. Auditor’s report | 67 Financial statements 71 Primary statements 80 S  ection 2 84  ection 3 S Results for the year Operating assets and liabilities 71 Income statement 80 2.1 Revenue, segment information 84 3.1 Intangible assets 72 Balance sheet 80 2.2 Employee costs 86 3.2 Property, plant and equipment 74 Statement of changes in equity 80 2.3 O ther operating income 88 3.3 Inventories 76 Cash flow statement and expenses 88 3.4 Prepayments 81 2.4 S pecial items 88 3.5 Receivables 77 Section 1 81 2.5 Income from investments Basis of preparation in subsidiaries 89 3.6 P  ension and similar assets and obligations 77 General accounting policies 81 2.6 Income tax, tax assets and tax liabilities 90 3.7 Provisions 90 3.8 Deferred income 90 3.9 Other liabilities 92 S  ection 4 96 S  ection 5 Capital structure Other disclosures and financing items 96 5.1 Fee  to the auditors appointed 92 4.1 S hare capital, distribution at the General Meeting to shareholders 96 5.2 Adjustments  for non-cash items 92 4.2 Bank loans, etc. 96 5.3 Contingent  liabilities and 92 4.3 F inancial risks other financial obligations 93 4.4 D erivative financial instruments 97 5.4 E vents after the reporting period 94 4.5 N et financials 97 5.5 R elated parties and ownership 94 4.6 Cash and cash equivalents, net 98 5.6 Investments  in subsidiaries 94 4.7 A  cquisitions of enterprises 100 5.7 The Hempel Group including foreign branches 102 5.8 F inancial definitions Income statement In EUR million Group Parent company In EUR million Group Parent company Note 2018 2017 2018 2017 Distribution of profit 2018 2017 2018 2017 2.1 Revenue 1,346 1,378 123 117 Proposed distribution of profit: Production costs -832 -815 -59 -53 Proposed dividend 30 28 30 28 Gross profit 514 563 64 64 Reserve for net revaluation under the equity method – – – 34 Reserve for development costs – – 3 1 Sales and distribution costs -325 -327 -17 -13 Minority interests 5 14 – – Administrative costs -109 -135 -33 -52 Retained earnings 13 13 10 -22 2.3 Other operating income 10 14 – – 48 55 43 41 Operating profit before special items 90 115 14 -1 2.4 Special items -13 – – – Operating profit 77 115 14 -1 2.5 Income from investments in subsidiaries – – 28 34 Profit before financial income and expenses 77 115 42 33 4.5 Net financials -5 -23 8 -1 Profit before tax 72 92 50 32 2.6 Income tax -24 -37 -7 9 Net profit for the year 48 55 43 41 Financial statements | 71 Balance sheet as at 31 December – assets In EUR million Group Parent company Note 2018 2017 2018 2017 Goodwill 76 74 – – Software 3 5 1 3 Software under development 6 3 6 3 Customer relationships 57 45 – – Other intangible assets 42 57 14 16 3.1 Intangible assets 184 184 21 22 Land and buildings 165 133 – – Assets under construction 28 22 5 2 Plant and machinery 90 75 1 1 Other fixed assets 21 22 1 1 3.2 Property, plant and equipment 304 252 7 4 5.6 Investments in subsidiaries – – 326 330 Loans to Group enterprises – – 188 189 2.6 Deferred tax assets 51 51 10 14 Deposits etc. 19 6 1 1 Fixed asset investments 70 57 525 534 Total non-current assets 558 493 553 560 3.3 Inventories 215 178 4 4 3.5 Trade receivables 338 309 7 4 Receivables from Group enterprises – – 172 94 2.6 Tax receivables 8 6 – – Other receivables 81 39 30 18 3.4 Prepayments 10 8 3 3 3.5 Receivables 437 362 212 119 4.6 Cash at bank and in hand 85 111 – 6 Current assets 737 651 216 129 Total assets 1,295 1,144 769 689 72 | Balance sheet as at 31 December – equity and liabilities In EUR million Group Parent company Note 2018 2017 2018 2017 4.1 Share capital 15 15 15 15 Reserve for net revaluation under the equity method – – – – Reserve for development costs – – 6 3 Retained earnings 363 399 397 396 Proposed dividend for the year 30 28 30 28 Shareholders in Hempel A/S’ share of equity 408 442 448 442 Minority interests 61 52 – – Total equity 469 494 448 442 2.6 Deferred tax liabilities 55 51 – – 3.6 Pension obligations and similar obligations 21 22 1 1 3.7 Other provisions 84 69 2 – Provisions 160 142 3 1 4.2 Bank loans etc. 30 18 – – 4.4 Other long-term payables 40 – – – Long-term debt 70 18 – – 4.6 Overdraft facilities 57 49 36 21 4.2 Short-term part of bank loans etc. 22 12 15 – 3.8 Deferred income 7 6 – – Trade payables 243 200 10 7 Payables to Group enterprises 73 53 228 188 2.6 Tax liabilities 7 13 – – 3.9 Other liabilities 187 157 29 30 Total current liabilities 596 490 318 246 Total liabilities 666 508 318 246 Total equity and liabilities 1,295 1,144 769 689 Financial statements | 73 Statement of changes in equity as at 31 December In EUR million Group Shareholders Retained Proposed in Hempel A/S’ Minority Note Share capital earnings dividend share of equity interest Total equity Equity Equity at 1 January 2017 15 416 27 458 67 525 Net profit for the year – 41 – 41 14 55 Exchange adjustment at year-end rate – -29 – 29 -9 -38 Hedging of future transactions – – – – – – Remeasurements of defined benefit plans – -1 – -1 – -1 Dividend distributed – – -27 -27 -20 -47 Proposed dividend – -28 28 – – – 4.1 Equity at 31 December 2017 15 399 28 442 52 494 Net profit for the year – 43 – 43 5 48 Exchange adjustment at year-end rate – -9 – -9 2 -7 Hedging of future transactions – – – – – – Remeasurements of defined benefit plans – – – – – – Dividend distributed – – -28 -28 -11 -39 Proposed dividend – -30 30 – – – Additions for the year – – – – 13 13 Written put option, minorities – -39 – -39 – -39 Fair value adjustment, put option – -1 – -1 – -1 4.1 Equity at 31 December 2018 15 363 30 408 61 469 74 | In EUR million Parent company Reserve for Reserve for net development Retained Proposed Note Share capital revaluation costs earnings dividend Total Equity Equity at 1 January 2017 15 21 2 393 27 458 Net profit for the year – 34 1 6 – 41 Dividend received – -55 – 55 – – Exchange adjustment at year-end rate – -29 – – – -29 Hedging of future transactions – – – – – – Remeasurements of defined benefit plans – -1 – – – -1 Dividend distributed – – – – -27 -27 Proposed dividend – – – -28 28 – Retained earnings, transfer – 30 – -30 – – 4.1 Equity at 31 December 2017 15 – 3 396 28 442 Net profit for the year – – 3 40 – 43 Dividend received – – – – – – Exchange adjustment at year-end rate – – – -9 – -9 Hedging of future transactions – – – – – – Remeasurements of defined benefit plans – – – – – – Dividend distributed – – – – -28 -28 Proposed dividend – – – -30 30 – Retained earnings, transfer – – – – – – 4.1 Equity at 31 December 2018 15 – 6 397 30 448 Financial statements | 75 Cash flow statement In EUR million Group In EUR million Group Note 2018 2017 Note 2018 2017 Cash flows from operating activities 3.1 Purchase of intangible assets -4 -6 Operating profit 77 115 Sale of property, plant and equipment 2 18 5.2 Adjustment for non-cash items 56 22 Change in deposits etc., net -13 -2 Total cash flows from operating activities before financial Received from sale of associate 3 14 items, tax and changes in working capital 133 137 Total cash flows from investing activities -63 -11 Change in receivables -5 33 Free cash flow 23 144 Change in inventories -8 -1 Cash flows from financing activities Change in trade payables 2 29 Change in bank and other borrowings etc. -11 -81 Total change in working capital -11 61 Change in minority shares (dividend distributed etc.) -20 -20 Total cash flows from operating activities before financial items and tax 122 198 Dividend distributed to shareholders -28 -27 Capital losses and gains, net 3 3 Income tax paid -26 -32 Total cash flows from financing activities -56 -125 Interest income and expenses paid, net -10 -11 Net cash flow -33 19 Total cash flows from operating activities 86 155 4.6 Cash and equivalents, net, beginning of year 62 48 Cash flows from investing activities Exchange adjustment -1 -5 4.7 Acquisition of enterprises -19 – 4.6 Cash and equivalents, net, end of year 28 62 3.2 Purchase of property, plant and equipment -32 -35 76 | Section 1 Basis of preparation 1.1 General accounting policies General The Annual Report of Hempel A/S for 2018 has been prepared in accordance with the Assets are recognised in the balance sheet when it is probable that future economic benefits attributable to the asset will flow to ies in which the parent company directly or indirectly holds more than 50 per cent of the votes or in which the parent company, through provisions of the Danish Financial Statements the Group and the value of the asset can be share ownership or otherwise, exercises control. All entities in the Hempel Group follow Act (Årsregn­skabs­loven) applying to large measured reliably. Enterprises in which the Group holds between the same Group accounting policies. enterprises of reporting class C. The Annual 20 per cent and 50 per cent of the votes and Report for 2018 is presented in EUR millions. Liabilities are recognised in the balance sheet exercises significant influence but not control are This section gives a summary of the The accounting policies applied remain unwhen it is probable that future economic benefits classified as associates. significant accounting policies. changed from previous years. will flow out of the Group and the value of the liability can be measured reliably. Assets and On consolidation, items of a uniform nature are In the Annual Report, the notes are grouped in liabilities are initially measured at cost. Subsecombined. Elimination is made of intercompany sections and include the relevant accounting quently, assets and liabilities are measured as income and expenses, shareholdings, dividends policies. described in individual sections. and accounts as well as of realised and unrealised profits and losses on transactions between Recognition and measurement Recognition and measurement take into account the consolidated enterprises. Revenues are recognised in the income statepredictable losses and risks occurring before the ment as earned. Furthermore, value adjustments presentation of the Annual Report that confirm or The parent company’s investments in the consoliof financial assets and liabilities measured at fair invalidate affairs and conditions existing at the dated subsidiaries are set off against the parent value or amortised costs are recognised. balance sheet date. company’s share of the net asset value of subsidiaries stated at the time of consolidation. Moreover, all expenses incurred to achieve the Euro is used as the presentation currency. All earnings for the year are recognised in the other currencies are regarded as foreign Minority interests income statement, including depreciation, currencies. On statement of Group results and Group equity, amortisation, impairment losses and provisions the shares of results and equity of subsidiaries as well as reversals due to changed accounting Basis of consolidation attributable to minority interests are recognised as estimates of amounts that were previously The consolidated financial statements comprise separate items in the distribution of profits and recognised in the income statement. the parent company, Hempel A/S, and subsidiarthe equity. Minority interests are recognised on Financial statements | 77 the basis of a remeasurement of acquired assets at the dates of payment are recognised in financial year at the exchange rates at the end of the Sales and distribution costs and liabilities to fair value at the time of acquisition income and expenses in the income statement. reporting period Sales and distribution expenses comprise costs of subsidiaries. Where foreign exchange transactions are • the translation of foreign subsidiaries’ and incurred to distribute sales and for sales considered hedging of future cash flows, the value associates’ income statement from average campaigns, including costs for sales and The measurement is prorated according to the adjustments are recognised directly in equity. exchange rates to exchange rates at the end of distribution staff, advertising costs and depreciaminority’s share and goodwill related to minority the reporting period tion of sales equipment. interests is not recognised. Receivables, payables and other monetary items • the translation of intra-Group receivables that in foreign currencies that have not been settled are considered to be an addition to net Administrative costs On subsequent changes to minority interests, at the balance sheet date are translated at the investments in subsidiaries Administrative costs comprise costs incurred the changed share is included in results as of the exchange rates at the balance sheet date. Any for management and administration of the date of change. differences between the exchange rates at the These specific exchange rate adjustments are Group, including costs for administrative staff balance sheet date and the transaction date recognised directly in equity. and manage­ment as well as office costs and Foreign currency translation rates are recognised in financial income and depreciation and write-downs for bad debt Functional and presentation currency expenses in the income statement. Classification of operating expenses losses. Amortisation of goodwill, customer Items included in the financial statements of in the income statement relationships and brands are recognised in each of Hempel’s entities are measured using Fixed assets acquired in foreign currencies are Production costs administrative costs. the cur­rency of the primary economic environmeasured at the transaction date rates. Production costs comprise costs incurred to ment in which the entity operates (functional achieve revenue for the year. Costs comprise Cash flow statement currency). Transactions denominated in other Translation of Group companies raw materials, consumables, direct labour costs The cash flow statement is presented using currencies than the functional currency are Financial statements of foreign subsidiaries and indirect production costs such as maintethe indirect method based on the operating considered transactions denominated in foreign and associates are translated into euros at nance and depreciation, etc., as well as profit (loss). The cash flow statement for the currencies. The consolidated financial statethe exchange rates prevailing at the end of the operation, administration and management of Group shows the cash flows for the year broken ments are presented in euro. reporting period for balance sheet items, and factories. down by operating, investing and financing at average exchange rates for income statement activities, changes for the year in cash and Translation of transactions and balances items, with the exception of exchange rate Production costs also include research and cash equivalents as well as cash and cash Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at adjustments of investments in subsidiaries development costs that do not qualify for equivalents for the Group at the beginning the exchange rates at the dates of transaction. and associates arising from: capitalisation as well as amortisation of capitaland end of the year. The cash flow statement Gains and losses arising due to differences • the translation of foreign subsidiaries’ and ised development costs. Also included are cannot be immediately derived from the between the transaction date rates and the rates associates’ net assets at the beginning of the inventory write-downs. published financial records. 78 | Cash flows from operating activities Separate presentation of special items Cash flows from operating activities are With reference to §11(3) of the Danish Financial calculated as the net profit/loss for the year Statements Act, the Hempel Group has departed adjusted for changes in working capital, interest from the presentation requirements in the Act. It is and tax paid and non-cash operating items, management’s assessment that a separate such as depreciation, amortisation and presentation of certain costs provides a true and impairment losses and provisions. Working fair view of the financial statements. The Hempel capital comprises current assets less shortGroup has therefore presented costs related to term debt excluding items included in cash and identified and potential irregularities within cash equivalents. Hempel’s subsidiaries in certain countries as ‘Special items’ in the income statement. Costs Cash flows from investing activities include penalties, costs associated with investigaCash flows from investing activities comprise tions performed and severance payments. cash flows from acquisitions and disposals of Management has found it necessary to present intangible assets, property, plant and equipthese costs separately as they are material to the ment, fixed asset investments, as well as Group, non-recurring and extraordinary in terms of acquistions of enterprises. Hempel’s continuing global business. It is the view of management that a note disclosure only is not Cash flows from financing activities sufficient to ensure that the performance of the Cash flows from financing activities comprise continuing business is understood correctly by the cash flows from the raising and repayment of reader of the financial statements. Individual principal long-term debt as well as payments line items included in ‘Operating profit’ are to and from shareholders. impacted by a total of EUR 13 million (2017: EUR 0 million). However, the change in presentation Cash and cash equivalents does not impact operating profit after special Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and items, profit after tax, total assets, total equity short-term marketable securities with a term of or cash flow. three months or less and are subject to an insignificant risk of change in value. Financial statements | 79 Section 2 Results for the year 2.1 Revenue, segment information 2.2 Employee costs 2.3 Other operating income and expenses Accounting policies Accounting policies Accounting policies Revenue from the sale of goods for resale and Wages, salaries, social security contributions, rendered by employees of Hempel. Where Other operating income and other operating finished goods is recognised in the income annual leave and sick leave, bonuses and Hempel provides long-term employee benefits, expenses comprise items of a secondary statement when delivery and transfer of risk non-monetary benefits are recognised in the the costs are accrued to match the rendering of nature to the core activities of the enterprise, has been made before year end. year in which the associated services are the services by the employees concerned. including gains and losses on the sale of intangible assets and property, plant and Revenue is recognised exclusive of VAT and net In EUR million Group Parent company equipment. of discounts relating to sales. 2018 2017 2018 2017 In EUR million Group Parent company Segments Employee costs Reporting of operating segments is based on 2018 2017 2018 2017 Directors’ fees 1 1 1 1 internal reporting to regional and Group Other management. Remuneration of the Executive Board1) 5 5 5 5 operating income1) 10 14 – – Wages and salaries etc. 266 260 39 36 Hempel operates in three geographical 10 14 – – Pension contributions 14 15 3 3 regions: EMEA (Europe including Russia, the 1) O  ther operating income comprises sale of land and 286 281 48 45 Middle East and Africa), Asia-Pacific and insurance recoverable. (2017: Sale of buildings.) Americas. Sales are attributed to geographical Average number regions according to the location of the of employees 5,882 5,740 307 282 customer.1) Employee costs have been recognised in the income statement as follows: In EUR million Group Parent company Production costs 86 70 17 12 2018 2017 2018 2017 Selling and distribution expenses 149 146 8 7 EMEA 824 798 123 117 Administrative expenses 51 65 22 26 Asia-Pacific 340 398 – – 286 281 47 45 Americas 182 182 – – 1) Executive Board registered with the Danish Business Authority (Erhvervsstyrelsen). As of 6 April 2018, the Executive Board 1,346 1,378 123 117 has one more member. 1) F  or competitive reasons, a breakdown of revenue on activities has been left out (in accordance with §96 of the Danish Financial Statements Act). 80 | 2.4 Special items 2.5 Income from investments in subsidiaries 2.6 Income tax, tax assets and tax liabilities Special items comprise costs related to Accounting policies Income tax authorities may occur, and management’s penalties, costs associated with investigations The items ‘Income from investments in Accounting policies judgment is applied to assess the possible performed and severance payments. subsidiaries’ in the income statement include Income tax for the year consists of current tax outcome of such disputes. Hempel believes that the proportionate share of the profit for the for the year and deferred tax for the year. The tax the provision made for uncertain tax positions not In EUR million Group Parent company year less goodwill amortisation. attributable to the profit for the year is recognised yet settled with local tax authorities is adequate. in the income statement, whereas the tax However, the actual obligation may deviate and 2018 2017 2018 2017 attributable to equity transactions is recognised is dependent on the result of litigations and Admini­stra­ directly in equity. The company is jointly taxed with settlements with the relevant tax authorities. tive costs -13 – – – wholly owned Danish subsidiaries. The tax effect In EUR million Parent company Operating of the joint taxation is allocated to Danish enter­profit -13 – – – 2018 2017 prises in proportion to their taxable incomes. Profit Income from investments before tax -13 – – – in subsidiaries Hempel is subject to income taxes around Income tax – – – – Profit the world. Significant judgment is required in before tax 56 92 determining the worldwide accrual for income Net profit for the year -13 – – – Amortisation taxes, deferred income tax assets and liabilities, of goodwill -11 -12 and provision for uncertain tax positions. Hempel Tax for recognises deferred income tax assets if it is the year -17 -46 probable that sufficient taxable income will Profit be available in the future against which the after tax 28 34 temporary differences and unused tax losses can be utilised. Management has considered future taxable income when assessing whether deferred income tax assets should be recognised. In the course of conducting business globally, transfer pricing disputes with tax Financial statements | 81 In EUR million Group Parent company In EUR million Group Deferred tax assets and liabilities 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Accounting policies Deferred income tax is measured using the Hempel Group Effective tax rate of the Group 33.3% 40.0% balance sheet liability method in respect of Profit before tax 72 92 temporary differences arising between the tax Reconciliation 72 92 of tax rate: bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes on the Danish tax rate 22.0% 22.0% Income tax on profit basis of the intended use of the asset and for the year: Higher/(lower) tax rates of foreign subsidiaries -5.5% -4.5% settlement of the liability, respectively. Total tax -24 -37 -24 -37 Deferred tax assets, including the tax base of Weighted tax rate of the Group 16.5% 17.5% tax loss carry forwards, are measured at the Tax in respect of subsidiaries – – 17 46 Permanent differences -0.1% -2.1% value at which the asset is expected to be -24 -37 -7 9 realised, either by elimination in tax on future Unrecognised deferred tax assets 8.8% 1.4% earnings or by set off against deferred tax Current tax for the year -22 -29 -3 -5 Recognised deferred tax assets related to prior years -0.9% -9.7% liabilities within the same legal tax entity. Deferred tax for the year 2 9 -4 2 Adjustments in respect of previous years -0.8% 0.3% Change in US tax rate – -9 – – Other adjustments 2.6% 17.8% Deferred tax is measured on the basis of the Adjustment in respect tax rules and tax rates that will be effective Change in US tax rate 0.0% 9.7% of previous years -4 -8 – 12 under the legislation at the balance sheet date Withholding taxes etc. 2.1% 5.1% when the deferred tax is expected to crystallise Income tax -24 -37 -7 9 Effective tax rate of the Group before special items 28.2% 40.0% as current tax. Any changes in deferred tax due Adjustment related to special items 5.1% – to changes to tax rates are recognised in the income statement. Effective tax rate of the Group 33.3% 40.0% 82 | In EUR million Group Parent company In EUR million Group Parent company In EUR million Group Parent company 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Deferred tax (net): The net value The net value is recognised is recognised Deferred tax, beginning of year – 13 14 – in the balance in the balance sheet as sheet as Exchange adjustment at year-end rate -1 -2 – – follows: follows: Acquisition of enterprises -1 – – – Deferred Current tax assets 51 51 10 14 tax assets 8 6 – – Deferred tax for the year 2 9 -4 2 Deferred Current Adjustment in respect of previous years -4 -11 – 12 tax liabilities -55 -51 – – tax liabilities -7 -13 – – Change in tax rate – -9 – – -4 – 10 14 1 -7 – – Deferred tax (net), end of year -4 – 10 14 Current tax receivables and liabilities In EUR million Group Parent company Accounting policies 2018 2017 2018 2017 Current tax liabilities and receivables are recognised in the balance sheet as the Deferred tax (net) relates to the following items: expected taxable income for the year adjusted for tax on taxable incomes for prior years and Intangible assets 4 6 7 11 tax paid on account. Property, plant and equipment -1 2 2 3 Inventories 2 3 – – Trade receivables 5 3 – – Provisions and other payables -26 -26 1 – Tax losses 12 12 – – -4 – 10 14 At 31 December 2018, the Group had recognised The Group has a non-recognised tax asset of EUR a deferred tax asset comprising tax losses carried 14 million (2017: EUR 9 million). forward of EUR 12 million (2017: EUR 12 million). Management believes it is likely that the unutilised tax losses can be utilised within the next years. Financial statements | 83 Section 3 Operating assets and liabilities 3.1 Intangible assets In EUR million Group Accounting policies in the income statement as costs in the year of Software Other Goodwill acquired is measured at cost less acquisition. under Customer intangible accumulated amortisations. Goodwill is Goodwill Software development relationships assets Total amortised on a straight-line basis over its useful An amount corresponding to development costs Intangible assets life on the basis of management experience capitalised as intangible assets is transferred to Costs at 1 January 2018 144 36 3 112 92 387 within the individual areas. The amortisation ‘Reserve for development cost’ under equity (in period is 2-25 years, the longest period the parent company). The reserve is reduced Exchange adjustment at year-end rate 4 – – 3 2 9 applicable to acquired enterprises with a strong with amortisation of the intangible assets. market position and a long-term earnings profile. Acquisition of enterprises 11 – – 17 2 30 Customer relations are measured at cost less Additions for the year – 1 3 – – 4 Development projects concerning products, accumulated amortisation and impairment Disposals for the year – – – – 16 16 pro­­ces­­­ses and software that are clearly defined losses. The period of amortisation is 2-17 years. Costs at and identifiable and in respect of which 31 December 2018 159 37 6 132 80 414 technical feasibility, sufficient resources and a Other intangible assets are measured at cost potential future market or development opportuless accumulated amortisation and impairment Accumulated amortisation nity in the enterprise can be demonstrated, and losses. The assets are amortised on a straightat 1 January 2018 70 31 – 67 35 203 where it is the intention to manufacture, market line basis over their estimated useful lives. The Exchange adjustment or use the product or process in question, are amortisation period is 2-25 years. at year-end rate 2 – – 2 – 4 recognised as intangible assets. The costs Amortisation for the year 11 3 – 6 6 26 comprise direct wages, salaries, materials and Impairment of intangible assets Exchange adjustment other direct and indirect costs attributable to the The carrying amounts of intangible assets are between average rate and development project. reviewed on an annual basis to determine year-end rate – – – – – – whether there is any indication of impairment Reversal of amortisation of assets sold – – – – -3 -3 Upon completion of the development project, other than that expressed by amortisation. costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over Accumulated amortisation at 31 December 2018 83 34 – 75 38 230 the estimated useful life. The amortisation If so, the asset is written down to its lower period is 3-10 years. recoverable amount. Carrying amount at 31 December 2018 76 3 6 57 42 184 Other development costs and costs relating to Other intangible assets comprise brands, formulas, non-compete agreements and lease rights. rights developed by the company are recognised 84 | In EUR million Parent company In EUR million Group Parent company Software Other 2018 2017 2018 2017 under Customer intangible Goodwill Software development relationships assets Total Amortisation and Intangible assets impairment are specified Costs at 1 January 2018 – 7 3 – 30 40 as follows: Exchange adjustment at Production year-end rate – – – – – – costs 1 1 – – Additions for the year – – 4 – – 4 Sales and distribution Disposals for the year – – -1 – – -1 costs 1 1 – – Costs at Administrative 31 December 2018 – 7 6 – 30 43 costs 24 26 4 3 Accumulated amortisation 26 28 4 3 at 1 January 2018 – 4 – 14 18 Exchange adjustment at year-end rate – – – – – Amortisation for the year – 2 – 2 4 Accumulated amortisation at 31 December 2018 – 6 – 16 22 Carrying amount at 31 December 2018 – 1 6 – 14 21 Other intangible assets mainly comprise brands and formulas. Financial statements | 85 3.2 Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are measured basis over the expected useful lives of the at cost less accumulated depreciation and less assets, which are: any accumulated impairment losses. Buildings (max.)...................................... 50 years Costs comprise the cost of acquisition and Laboratory equipment............................ 10 years expenses directly related to the acquisition up Plant and machinery.............................. 10 years until the time when the asset is ready for use. In Other fixtures and fittings, the case of assets of own construction, costs tools and equipment...........................3-10 years comprise direct and indirect expenses for labour, materials, components and sub-suppliers. Leasehold improvements are included in other operating equipment and are recognised at cost Interest expenses on loans raised directly for and depreciated over the term of the lease; financing the construction of property, plant and however, not exceeding 10 years. equipment are recognised in costs over the period of construction. All indirectly attributable The assets’ residual values and useful lives are borrowing expenses are recognised in the reviewed annually. If residual value exceeds the income statement. carrying amount, depreciation is discontinued. If the depreciation period or the residual values Leases in terms of which the Group assumes are changed, the depreciation effect is recogsubstantially all the risks and rewards of nised prospectively as a change in accounting ownership (finance leases) are recognised in the estimates. balance sheet at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the net present value of Impairment of fixed assets the lease payments computed by applying the The carrying amounts of property, plant and interest rate implicit in the lease or an approxiequipment are reviewed on an annual basis to mated value as the discount rate. Assets determine whether there is any indication of acquired under finance leases are depreciated impairment other than that expressed by and written down for impairment under the amortisation and depreciation. same policy as determined for the other fixed assets of the Group. If so, the asset is written down to its lower recoverable amount. Depreciation based on costs reduced by any residual value is calculated on a straight-line 86 | In EUR million Group In EUR million Parent company Land and Plant and Other fixed Assets Total Land and Plant and Other fixed Assets Total buildings machi­nery assets under conbuildings machi­nery assets under construction struction Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment Costs at 1 January 2018 204 218 90 22 534 Costs at 1 January 2018 – 3 5 2 10 Acquisition of enterprises 35 16 1 1 53 Additions for the year – – 1 4 5 Additions for the year 5 15 6 6 32 Disposals for the year – – – -1 -1 Disposals for the year -2 -5 -5 -1 13 Costs at 31 December 2018 – 3 6 5 14 Costs at 31 December 2018 242 244 92 28 606 Accumulated depreciations at 1 January 2018 – 2 4 – 6 Accumulated depreciations Depreciation for the year – – 1 – 1 at 1 January 2018 71 143 68 ‒ 282 Accumulated depreciation Exchange adjustment – 2 5 – 7 at 31 December 2018 at year-end rate 1 1 – ‒ 2 Carrying amount at Depreciation for the year 7 15 7 ‒ 29 – 1 1 5 7 31 December 2018 Reversal of depreciations of assets sold -2 -5 -4 ‒ -11 Accumulated depreciation at 31 December 2018 77 154 71 ‒ 302 In EUR million Group Parent company Carrying amount 2018 2017 2018 2017 at 31 December 2018 165 90 21 28 304 Depreciation and impairment are specified as follows: Including leased assets of 3 ‒ ‒ ‒ 3 Production costs 18 18 – – Including interest expenses of 1 ‒ ‒ ‒ 1 Sales and distribution costs 7 5 – – Administrative costs 4 5 1 1 29 28 1 1 Financial statements | 87 3.3 Inventories 3.4 Prepayments Accounting policies Accounting policies Inventories are measured at cost in accordPrepayments comprise prepaid expenses ance with the FIFO principle. mainly relating to rent, licenses and insurance premiums. The cost of goods for resale, raw materials and consumables equals landed cost. The cost of finished goods and work in progress comprises the cost of raw materials, 3.5 Receivables consumables and direct labour with the addition of indirect production costs. Indirect Accounting policies production costs comprise the cost of indirect Receivables are measured in the balance materials and labour as well as maintenance sheet at the lower of amortised cost and net and depreciation of the machinery, factory realisable value, which corresponds to nominal buildings and equipment used in the manuvalue less provisions for bad debts. Provisions facturing process as well as the cost of for bad debts are determined on the basis of factory administration and management. an individual assessment of each receivable and, in respect of trade receivables, a general Where the net realisable value is lower than provision is also made based on the company’s cost, inventories are written down to this lower experience from previous years. value. The net realisable value is calculated as the sales amount less costs of completion and Receivables are recognised in the balance costs necessary to make the sale. sheet at amortised cost, which substantially corresponds to nominal value. Provisions for estimated bad debts are made. In EUR million Group Parent company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Raw In EUR million Group Parent company materials and consumables 70 62 4 4 2018 2017 2018 2017 Work in Receivables 437 362 212 119 6 6 – – progress of which due Finished more than 139 110 – – one year from goods balance sheet Inventories 215 178 4 4 date 2 2 – – 88 | 3.6 Pension and similar assets and obligations Accounting policies In EUR million Group Parent company Hempel operates a number of defined contribu2018 2017 2018 2017 tion plans throughout the world. Hempel’s Pension and similar obligations comprise: contributions to the defined contribution plans are recognised in the income statement in the Pension and similar obligations 52 59 1 1 year to which they relate. In a few countries, Fair value of assets related to the plans -31 -37 – – Hempel also operates defined benefit plans. Pension obligations, net 21 22 1 1 The costs for the year for defined benefit plans are determined using the projected unit credit method. This reflects services rendered by Recognition in the balance sheet: employees to the valuation dates and is based Liabilities 21 22 1 1 on actuarial assumptions primarily regarding Pension obligations recognised discount rates used in determining the present in the balance sheet, net 21 22 1 1 value of benefits and projected rates of remuneration growth. Discount rates are based on the market yields of high-rated corporate Defined benefit plans bonds in the country concerned. Actuarial gains Specification of plan assets: and losses arising from experience adjustments Shares and properties 14% 14% – – and changes in actuarial assumptions are Fixed interest current asset investments 85% 78% – – recognised directly in equity in the period in which they arise. Past service costs are Cash at bank and in hand 1% 8% – – recognised immediately in the income stateTotal 100% 100% – – ment. Pension assets are only recognised to the extent that Hempel is able to derive future economic benefits such as refunds from the Weighted average assumptions: plan or reductions of future contributions. Discount rate 2.1% 2.0% 2.0% 2.0% General wage inflation 2.2% 2.7% – – The net obligation recognised in the balance General price inflation 1.6% 1.7% – – sheet is reported as non-current asset and liabilities. Financial statements | 89 3.7 Provisions 3.8 Deferred income Accounting policies necessary to fulfil the obligations at the Accounting policies Provisions are recognised when – in consebalance sheet date. The costs required to Deferred income comprises prepayments from quence of an event having occurred before or settle the liability are discounted if the effect is customers where the related revenue cannot on the balance sheet date – the Group has a material to the measurement of the liability. be recognised in the income statement until legal or constructive obligation and it is the next financial year. probable that there may be an outflow of Provisions for liabilities relating to environmenresources embodying economic benefits to tal obligations, warranty commitments and settle the obligation. other provisions include factual, legal and estimated liabilities as a result of events Provisions for environmental, warranty and occurring before the end of the financial year. restructuring obligations as well as other obligations are recognised and measured based on a best estimate of the expenses Estimates are based on management’s judgment. 3.9 Other liabilities Accounting policies In EUR million Group Other liabilities are measured at amortised Environmental Warranty Other 2018 2017 cost, substantially corresponding to nominal obligations commitments provisions Total Total value. Other liabilities comprise employee Total provisions, costs payable, VAT and duties payable, beginning of year 20 11 38 69 90 accruals, other payables and fair values of Exchange adjustment derivative financial instruments. at year-end rate – – 1 1 -2 Acquisition of enterprises 2 – 9 11 0 Additions for the year – 3 13 16 1 Reversed – -2 -2 -4 -5 Consumed -1 -3 -5 -9 -15 Total provisions, end of year 21 9 54 84 69 Maturities are expected to be: Within 1 year 8 5 32 45 9 Between 1 and 5 years 2 4 9 15 24 After 5 years 11 – 13 24 36 21 9 54 84 69 90 | Section 4 Capital structure and financing items 4.1 Share capital, distribution to shareholders 4.2 Bank loans, etc. 4.3 Financial risks Accounting policies Accounting policies In EUR million Group Parent company Due to its operations, investments and Dividend distribution proposed by manageFixed-interest loans, such as mortgage loans 2018 2017 2018 2017 financing, the Group is exposed to commercial ment for the year is disclosed as a separate and loans from credit institutions, are recogrisks as well as financial risks related to Longequity item. nised initially at the proceeds received net of term bank changes in exchange rates and interest rates. transaction expenses incurred. Subsequently, borrowings Hempel has centralised handling of these The share capital amounts to DKK 115 the loans are measured at amortised cost; the etc. including risks, except for commercial credit risk, which short-term million (EUR 15 million) comprising 110 A difference between the proceeds and the part: is managed by the operating units across the shares of DKK 1 million each, one A share of nominal value is recognised as an interest Due within world. The risks are managed in accordance DKK 900,000, four B shares of DKK 1 million expense in the income statement over the 1 year 22 12 15 – with the policies and guidelines laid out by the each and four B shares of DKK 25,000 each. loan period. Due within Board of Directors. It is the Group’s policy not B shareholders enjoy special dividend rights. 1 to 5 years 29 17 – – to speculate actively in financial risks. Mortgage loans are measured at amortised Due after There have been no changes to the share cost, which for cash loans corresponds to the 5 years 1 1 – – The Group has no material risks relating to a capital in the past five years. remaining loan. Amortised cost of debenture 52 30 15 – single customer or business partner. It is the loans corresponds to the remaining loan Group’s credit policy to rate major customers calculated as the underlying cash value of the and other business partners on a current In EUR million Parent company loan at the date of raising the loan adjusted for basis. Bank Acceptance Bills are used as a Distribution of profit 2018 2017 depreciation of the price adjustment of the financial instrument to further limit the risk of loan made over the term of the loan at the credit losses. Proposed distribution of profit: date of raising the loan. Proposed dividend 30 28 To some extent, the Group’s income and Reserve for net revaluation – 34 expenses in foreign currencies net out and under the equity method create a natural hedge of the Group’s profitaReserve for development costs 3 1 bility margin. Hempel hedges short-term Retained earnings 10 -22 transactional exposure in the major currencies using financial instruments. FX hedge con43 41 tracts are predominantly entered into in order to mitigate accounting and settlement risks from internal transactions between subsidiaries and the parent company. 92 | The Hempel Group currently has a low level of Financial liabilities Currency risks Bank borrowings of EUR 52 million comprise interest-­bearing debt and is therefore not Liabilities concerning minorities’ put options are Open foreign currency hedges at 31 December loans denominated in various currencies, materially exposed to interest rate risks. initially recognised at fair value directly in equity 2018 entered into in order to hedge future mainly EUR 30 million, KWD 6 million (EUR 18 of the consolidated Group. Fair value is pur­chases and sales as well as receivables million) and other currencies amounting to EUR measured at the present value of the exercise and payables in foreign currencies are specified 4 million. price of the option. Subsequent fair value as follows: adjustments are recognised directly in equity. Interest rate risks The weighted average effective interest rates as at the balance sheet date were as follows: 4.4 Derivative financial instruments In EUR million Group Parent company Contract amount based on Term to maturity 2018 2017 2018 2017 Derivative financial instruments are initially exercise price 1) Fair value (months) Bank recognised at fair value on the acquisition date AUD -3.2 0.1 1 borrowings and subsequently remeasured at their fair etc. 2.7% 3.1% – – BRL -0.9 – 1 value at the reporting date. Positive and negative fair values of derivative financial CAD 0.7 – 1 instruments are recognised as ‘Other receivaCZK 2.5 – 1 bles’ and ‘Other payables’, respectively. Fair GBP -23.9 0.4 1 values of derivate financial instruments are HKD 83.5 -0.4 1 computed on the basis of market data and generally accepted valuation methods. IDR -4.2 -0.1 1 Changes in the fair values of derivative KRW 2.3 – 1 financial instruments are recognised in the NOK 0.5 – 1 income state­­ment under financial items unless NZD -0.6 – 1 the derivative financial instrument is designated and qualifies as a cash flow hedge. PLN -15.8 – 1 Changes in the fair values of the cash flow SGD 0.5 – 1 hedges are recognised in equity. USD -23.6 0.3 1 ZAR -3.5 0.1 1 0.4 1) Positive principal amounts equal a purchase of the currency in question and negative amounts equal a sale. Financial statements | 93 4.5 Net financials 4.6 Cash and cash equivalents, net 4.7 Acquisitions of enterprises Accounting policies Accounting policies Accounting policies initial recognition is done based on preliminary Financial income and expenses comprise Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at Enterprises acquired during the year are recogvalues. If identifiable assets, liabilities and interest income and expenses, gains and bank and in hand offset by overdraft facilities. nised in the consolidated financial ­statements contingent liabilities are subsequently determined losses on receivables, payables and transacfrom the date of acquisition. The acquisition to have a different fair value at the acquisition tions denominated in foreign currencies. date is the date on which the parent company date from that first assumed, goodwill is adjusted effectively obtains control of the acquired up until 12 months after the acquisition. The enterprise. effect of the adjustments are recognised in the opening balance of equity and comparative For acquisitions of new enterprises where figures are restated. control is obtained by the parent company, the acquisition method is used. The identifiable In EUR million Group Parent company In EUR million Group assets and liabilities are measured at fair value In EUR million Group 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 at the acquisition date. Identifiable intangible 2018 2017 Cash at bank and in assets are recognised if they are separable or Balance sheet items of External interest hand, beginning of year 111 115 arise from a contractual right. Deferred tax on acquired enterprises: income 1 1 1 – revaluations is recognised. Overdraft facilities, Intangible assets 19 – Interest beginning of year -49 -67 income Property, plant and 62 48 The difference between the costs of the enterequipment 53 – from subsidiaries – – 9 9 prise and the net asset value is recognised in the balance sheet as goodwill, which is amortised in Inventories 30 – External Cash, end of year 85 111 interest the income statement on a straight-line basis Receivables 50 – Overdraft facilities, expenses -11 -12 -3 -3 end of year -57 -49 over its estimated useful life. Cash and cash Interest paid equivalents 11 – 28 62 to Group The purchase consideration of an enterprise is Provisions -10 – enterprises -1 -1 -1 -1 the fair value of the agreed payment in the form Deferred tax -1 – Realised and of assets transferred, liabilities assumed and unrealised Bank loans etc. -53 – exchange equity instruments issued to the seller. Contingains/losses, gent considerations depending on future events Trade payables -33 – net 6 -11 2 -6 or the performance of contractual obligations Other liabilities -30 – -5 -23 8 -1 are also recognised at fair value at the date of Net assets acquired 36 – acquisition. Fair value changes in contingent considerations are recognised in the income Minorities 35% -13 – statement when incurred. Goodwill 11 – Transaction costs are recognised in the income Consideration 34 – statement when incurred. Cash acquired -11 – If uncertainty regarding the identification and Consideration payable -4 – measurement of acquired assets, liabilities and Cash consideration 19 – contingent liabilities exist at the acquisition date, 94 | Section 5 Other disclosures 5.1 Fee to the auditors appointed at the General Meeting 5.2 Adjustments for non-cash items 5.3 Contingent liabilities and other financial obligations In EUR million 2018 Group 2017 Parent company 2018 2017 Rental and lease In EUR million Group Parent company For the purpose of presenting the statement The operating lease commitments are related obligations: 2018 2017 2018 2017 of cash flows, non-cash items with effect on to non-­cancellable operating leases primarily Due within 1 the income statement must be reversed to related to premises, company cars and office year from the Audit fee 1 1 – – balance sheet identify the actual cash flow effect from the equipment. date 17 15 2 2 Tax advice 1 1 – 1 income statement. The adjustments are Due within Other fees – 1 – – specified as follows: Payments made under operating leases are 1 to 5 years recognised in the income statement on a from the 2 3 – 1 balance sheet straight-line basis over the lease term. date 38 34 7 8 In EUR million Group Due more Other guarantees primarily relate to bid and than 5 years 2018 2017 performance bonds. from the Amortisation, depreciation and balance sheet impairment, including goodwill 55 56 date 9 13 1 2 Provisions 2 -18 64 62 10 12 Exchange rate adjustment, operating profit 1 -2 Guarantees: Gains and losses on For local loans the sale of fixed assets -2 -14 and bank credits to 56 22 subsidiaries1) 118 122 Other guarantees 5 3 – – 5 3 118 122 1) P  arent company guarantees for unutilised local loans and bank credits to subsidiaries. The guarantees amount to EUR 53 million (2017: EUR 61 million). 96 | Other contingent liabilities: Following the compliance issues discovered in Germany in August 2016, followed by 5.4 Events after the reporting period 5.5 Related parties and ownership management’s thorough internal investigations and full self-disclosure to the Danish No events have occurred after the balance Related parties and ownership Basis State Prosecutor for Serious Economic and sheet date that could have a material impact Controlling influence International Crime (SØIK) in April 2017, we on the company’s financial result or equity, completed the internal remediation within except for the resolution obtained in the Hempel Foundation, Amaliegade 8, 1256 Copenhagen K, Denmark Ultimate parent company Hempel during 2018. As mentioned in the beginning of 2019 of the compliance case Hempel Invest A/S, Amaliegade 8, 1256 Copenhagen K, Denmark Majority shareholder (100%) sections Letter to stakeholders and 2018 in reported to SØIK in April 2017. The financial review, Hempel agreed at the beginning of implications have been fully recognised and Members of the Executive Management Board and Board of Directors 2019 to settle the case with a fine. Based on disclosed in the Annual Report 2018. of Hempel A/S as well as the Board of Directors of the Hempel Foundation this settlement, the provision was increased and Hempel Invest A/S are also regarded as related parties. The members by EUR 13 million in 2018, amounting to EUR of the Boards of Directors of the Hempel Foundation and Hempel Invest A/S 31 million by the end of 2018, whereby coincide. management considers the matter closed. Other related parties Hempel is jointly taxed with a number of Hempel’s Employee Foundation, Amaliegade 8, 1256 Copenhagen K, Denmark Related party Danish companies in the Hempel Foundation Hempel’s Cultural Foundation, Amaliegade 8, 1256 Copenhagen K, Denmark Related party Group. The Group’s Danish enterprises are Brænderupvænge ApS, Amaliegade 8, 1256 Copenhagen K, Denmark Related party jointly and severally liable for Danish taxes at source and income taxes. Keldskov ApS, Amaliegade 8, 1256 Copenhagen K, Denmark Related party Hempel’s Employee Foundation of 2017, Lundtoftegårdsvej 91, Related party 2800 Kgs. Lyngby Transactions All related-party transactions were carried out at arm’s length Financial statements | 97 5.6 Investments in subsidiaries Accounting policies In EUR million Parent company Investments in subsidiaries are recognised and 2018 2017 measured under the equity method. This implies that the investments are measured in the Investments in subsidiaries balance sheet at the proportionate ownership Costs, beginning of year 354 354 share of the net asset value of the enterprises Additions for the year 17 – with deduction or addition of shares of Costs, end of year 371 354 unrealised intercompany profits and losses. Net revaluations, beginning of year -30 21 The equity method is applied as a method of measurement. Exchange adjustment at year-end rate -9 -29 Remeasurements of defined benefit plans 0 -1 The total net revaluation of investments in Profit before tax 56 92 subsidiaries is transferred upon distribution of profit to ‘Reserve for net revaluation under the Amortisation of goodwill -11 -12 equity method’ under equity. The reserve is Tax for the year -17 -46 reduced by dividend distributed to the parent Dividend received -41 -55 company and adjusted for other equity Reversed – – movements in subsidiaries. Net revaluations, end of year -52 -30 With reference to the accounting treatment of Carrying amount, end of year 319 324 liabilities concerning minorities’ put options described in section 4.4, these are recognised Recognised in the balance sheet as follows: directly in equity of the consolidated Group. As Subsidiaries with negative equity -7 -6 this liability lies within a subsidiary, the liability Investments in subsidiaries 326 330 is not presented in the parent company and hence not presented as such nor directly 319 324 recognised against the equity of the parent company. The value of the liability will cause a Subsidiaries with negative equity are recognised in the balance sheet as follows: difference between the Group’s share of equity and the equity of the parent company. Once Recognised in provisions to subsidiaries -2 – the put option has been settled, this difference Recognised in receivables from subsidiaries -5 -6 will cease. Net value, end of year -7 -6 Subsidiaries with a negative net asset value are recognised at EUR 0. Any legal or constructive obligation of the parent company to cover the negative balance of the enterprise is recognised in receivables from subsidiaries. 98 | 5.7 The Hempel Group including foreign branches Country Name Currency Share capital Ownership Denmark Hempel A/S DKK 115,000,000 100% Argentina Hempel Argentina S.R.L. ARS 338,774,200 100% Australia Hempel (Australia) Pty. Ltd. AUD 700,000 100% Austria Ostendorf GmbH EUR 18,168 65% Austria Eurolor Brand GmbH EUR 50,000 65% Bahrain Dahna Paint Middle East Holding B.S.C. (closed) BHD 5,000,000 51% Bahrain Hempel Paints (Bahrain) S.P.C. BHD 300,000 51% Brazil Hempel Tintas do Brasil Ltda BRL 31,211,487 100% Canada Hempel (Canada) Inc. CAD 1,776,005 100% Chile Pinturas Hempel Chile SpA CLP 1,651,829 100% China Hempel (China) Limited HKD 106,000,000 100% China Hempel (China) Management Co., Ltd. CNY 50,000,000 100% China Hempel (Kunshan) Coatings Ltd. CNY 110,035,054 100% China Hempel (Yantai) Coatings Ltd. CNY 42,656,510 100% China Hempel (Guangzhou) Coatings Ltd. CNY 185,327,620 100% China Hempel Coatings (Zhangjiagang) Ltd. USD 0 100% Croatia Hempel Coatings (Croatia) Ltd. HRK 31,019,200 100% Cyprus Hempel Coatings (Cyprus) Limited EUR 1,000 100% Czech Republic Hempel (Czech Republic) s.r.o. CZK 30,000,000 100% Denmark HSA (Danmark) A/S DKK 10,000,000 100% Denmark Hempel Decorative Paints A/S DKK 1,000,000 100% Denmark Brifa Maling A/S DKK 11,200,000 100% Ecuador Hempel (Ecuador) S.A. USD 100,000 100% Egypt Hempel Coatings Egypt LLC EGP 3,000,000 100% Egypt Hempel Paints Egypt L.L.C EGP 250,000 100% Egypt Hempel Egypt L.L.C EGP 200,000 100% Finland OY Hempel (Finland) AB EUR 63,000 100% France Hempel (France) S.A. EUR 1,220,000 100% France BB Participations SAS EUR 4,000,000 65% France BB Holding SAS EUR 1,448,266 65% France BB Fabrications SAS EUR 1,000,000 65% France Bontemps-Bonnarme SAS EUR 75,000 65% 100 | Country Name Currency Share capital Ownership Country Name Currency Share capital Ownership France Renaulac Bearn SARL EUR 8,000 65% Qatar Hempel Paints (Qatar) W.L.L. QAR 4,000,000 29% France Renaulac Gironde SARL EUR 10,000 62% Russia JSC Hempel RUB 95,000 100% France L.A.R.Y Peintures SARL EUR 8,000 49% Saudi Arabia Hempel Paints (Saudi Arabia) W.L.L. SAR 24,500,000 51% Germany Hempel (Germany) GmbH EUR 1,533,876 100% Saudi Arabia Painting Materials and Equipment Centre Co. LTD SAR 1,000,000 26% Germany Hempel Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH EUR 25,000 100% Singapore Hempel (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. SGD 2,700,000 100% Germany J.W. Ostendorf GmbH & Co. KG EUR 520,000 65% South Africa Hempel Paints South Africa Pty Ltd. ZAR 9,500,000 100% Germany Ostendorf-Beteiligungs GmbH EUR 32,000 65% Spain Pinturas Hempel SAU EUR 1,202,000 100% Germany FLT Handel & Service GmbH EUR 25,565 65% Sweden Hempel (Sweden) AB SEK 2,500,000 100% Germany Brand.IQ GmbH EUR 500,000 65% Switzerland Hempel Schweiz AG CHF 100,000 100% Germany Ostendorf Frankreich Holding GmbH EUR 25,000 65% Switzerland J.W. Ostendorf (Schweiz) AG CHF 100,000 65% Germany Rottkamp Immoblilien GmbH & Co. KG EUR 2,500 65% Syria Hempel Paints (Syria) W.L.L. SYP 121,600,000 49% Germany Rottkamp Immobilien Verwaltung GmbH EUR 25,000 65% Taiwan Hempel (Taiwan) Co. Ltd. TWD 20,000,000 100% Greece Hempel Coatings (Hellas) S.A. EUR 6,300,000 100% Thailand Hempel (Thailand) Ltd. THB 3,000,000 100% Hungary Ostendorf Hungaria Kft. HUF 15,000,000 65% The Netherlands Hempel (The Netherlands) B.V. EUR 500,000 100% India Hempel Paints (India) Private Limited INR 690,000,000 100% The Netherlands Hempel Industrial B.V. EUR 306,450 100% Indonesia P .T . Hempel Indonesia IDR 830,000,000 100% Turkey Hempel Coatings San. Ve Tic Ltd. Sti. TRY 2,789,300 100% Iraq Hempel (Iraq) Ltd. USD 8,300 31% UK Crown Brands Limited GBP 1,000 100% Ireland Crown Paints Ireland Limited EUR 127 100% UK Crown Paints Limited GBP 1,000 100% Italy Hempel (Italy) S.r.l. EUR 50,000 100% UK Crown Paints Group Limited GBP 100,000 100% Kenya Hempel Paints Kenya Company Limited KES 10,000,000 100% UK Crown Paints Holding Limited GBP 100,000 100% Korea Hempel Korea Co. Ltd. KRW 1,450,000,000 100% UK Hempel Decorative Paints Limited GBP 2,000 100% Kuwait Hempel Paints (Kuwait) K.S.C.C. KWD 600,000 51% UK Hempel UK Ltd. GBP 4,100,000 100% Malaysia Hempel (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. MYR 5,000,000 100% UK Reebor Limited GBP 100 1% Malaysia Hempel Manufacturing (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. MYR 9,500,000 100% UK Ostendorf U.K. Ltd. GBP 0 65% Mexico Pinturas Hempel de Mexico S.A. de C.V. MXN 3,750,000 100% Ukraine Hempel Ukraine LLC UAH 656,291 100% Morocco Hempel Maroc SARL MAD 2,500,000 99% United Arab Emirates Hempel Paints (Abu Dhabi) L.L.C. AED 150,000 23% New Zealand Hempel (New Zealand) Ltd. NZD 300,000 100% United Arab Norway Hempel (Norway) AS NOK 4,981,428 100% Emirates Hempel Paints (Emirates) L.L.C. AED 4,000,000 29% Oman Hempel (Oman) L.L.C. OMR 500,000 20% USA Hempel (USA) Inc. USD 50,000 100% Peru Hempel Pinturas Del Perú S.A.C. PEN 4,900,000 100% USA Jones-Blair Company, LLC USD 87,922,373 100% Poland Hempel Paints (Poland) Sp. z o.o. PLN 60,500,000 100% Vietnam Hempel Vietnam Company Limited VND 16,498,272,000 100% Portugal Hempel (Portugal) S.A. EUR 1,246,995 100% Financial statements | 101 5.8 Financial definitions Foreign branches Financial ratios have been calculated as follows: Austria Hempel (Germany) GmbH Branch office Absolute organic revenue growth Organic growth = Revenue in comparative period Hungary Hempel (Czech Republic) s.r.o., Magyarorszagi Fioktelepe Japan Hempel (Singapore) Pte Ltd Japan Branch Office, Tokyo Organic growth is defined as growth from one year to the next, based on values in fixed currencies for both years excluding mergers, acquisitions and divestments, etc. Slovakia Hempel (Czech Republic) s.r.o., org. zlozka Slovensko Gross profit Gross margin = Revenue EBITDA EBITDA margin = Revenue EBITDA = Operating profit (and loss) before amortisations and depreciations Operating profit (loss) Operating profit margin = Revenue Return on Operating profit (loss) = invested capital Average invested capital Intangibles + property, plant and equipment + inventories + receivables Invested capital = other provisions trade payables other payables Shareholder’s equity Equity ratio = Total assets Net interest-bearing debt Leverage ratio = EBITDA Overdraft facilities + bank loans, etc. + interest-bearing payables to Group enterprise Net interest-bearing debt = cash at bank and in hand Free cash flow is defined as net cash generated from Free cash flow = operating activities less net cash used in investing activities. Total cash from operating activities + income tax paid + interest income and expenses paid, net Cash conversion = EBITDA Accounts receivable Accounts receivable x 90 = days Revenue (last 3 months) Accounts payable Accounts payable x 90 = days Cost of goods sold + change in inventory (last 3 months) Inventory x 90 Inventory days = Cost of goods sold (last 3 months) Net working capital = Accounts receivable days + inventory days accounts payable days days 102 | Follow us LinkedIn Streaming www hempel.com Follow Hempel on social media to get all the latest news, thoughtleadership articles, videos and stories about our work. hempel.com Hempel A/S Lundtoftegårdsvej 91 DK-2800 Kgs. Lyngby Denmark Tel: +45 4593 3800 Fax: +45 4588 5518 Email: hempel@hempel.com
