Communication on Progress C.K. Produktion A/S March 2019 1 CEO statement C. K. Produktion A/S is a Danish owned, internationally recognized and experienced sub supplier of injection -Alfred Skov Madsen, CEO / Managing moulded plastic parts for many different industries. Director of C.K. Produktion A/S In 2018, we signed up for the UN Global Compact initiative. An initiative we as a company support, as we in our continued development would like to deliver our good quality products to our customers, in a sustainable manner. Since we are a company that delivers our products to customers in many different countries, it is important for us to support a sustainable future. Our commitment to the UN Global Compact contributes to this, as it gives us some international guidelines for thinking sustainability into our daily lives and our production. C.K. Produktion A/S will continue to support the UN Global Compact initiative in the future. 2 Profile of C.K. Produktion A/S C. K. Produktion A/S is a significant Danish sub supplier Our eligibility as a sub supplier, and for gaining new in injection moulded plastic components for the markets and customers, is enhanced by the keywords: industry. The company was founded in 1978 and thus has more than 40 years of experience in the industry. Our 40 competent employees and 5,500 m2 of Agreed production facilitate a variety of different tasks, which quality are keen to develop in an environmentally friendly manner. Negotiated Our automated machinery park has the latest technology in production and automation. Items from Price under 1 gram and up to 5 kilograms can be moulded on our production lines, with clamping force from 25 650 tons. Agreed Exports, which make up approx. 15%, primarily go to delivery the European market. We can advise from idea to finished product, to the extent our customer wishes for. 3 Good business practice counteracts corruption In the industry, we do not experience corruption as a problem. C.K. Produktion A/S takes great distance from corruption, bribery and everything related to it. As we trade across country borders, we are aware that corruption and bribery can occur, and that some countries are in a greater risk group for this than others. We have suppliers in countries that might be considered risk groups, but we as well as our suppliers take great distance from the above, which is required for us to do business together. We have repeatedly signed code of conducts where anti-corruption has been a topic. We have no problem with this, as we do not use methods that are not legal and acceptable in the industry. The good business practice in the plastic industry counteracts corruption and helps to ensure a clean and secure market. 4 We take care of our employees Our employees are the driving force behind C.K. company for many years. For example, we have held Produktion A/S. Without them, our company cannot several 10, 25 and 30 year anniversaries. exist and we will not be able to deliver the good quality of our products. Therefore, we strive to create the best working environment for all our employees. We are a total of 40 employees and all our employees have a health insurance. We offer this, among other things, because we believe that happy employees are efficient employees. In addition, our employees' wellbeing has great significance for us as a company, and for the good dynamics that one finds in our workplace. We strive for satisfaction with our employees, and we have a staff association that organizes various activities for the employees throughout the year. We see, among other things, the satisfaction with the working environment in the fact that people stay in the 5 The safety of our employees is a top priority at C.K. Non-discrimination in an old industry Produktion A/S. Therefore, we have a safety policy and many safety rules. We measure on work related injuries The plastic industry is often dominated by men. But at and nearby accidents. C.K. Produktion A/S we attach great importance to not discriminate, which is reflected in 50% of our We also consider the employees' development as an employees being women. important part of our company, and would like to help At C.K. Produktion A/S we do not discriminate on age, employees to develop themselves. Therefore, there is gender, race, religion, ethnicity, disability etc. We the possibility of continuing education, and we always always employ after qualifications. have people in training. We currently have 3 young people as apprentices this corresponds to 7.5 percent However, we are challenged by the fact that it is most of the employees. often men who educate themselves in the plastic industry. That, together with our practice of recruiting based on qualifications, means that we do not use gender targeting. This is reflected in the Executive Board and the Board of Directors, where there are 0 percent women. An industry without forced and child labour At C.K. Produktion A/S we believe that children should be allowed to be children, and have the right to education, just as we believe that all people have the right to decide for themselves what line of work they will undertake. Therefore, we do not use forced and child labour, and we take very great distance from this. 6 Caring for the future As part of the plastic industry over the past 40 years, line utilizes groundwater which is a very energy we are very much aware of the environmental impacts efficient way to cool the system. that the industry can have. Therefore, we also strive to do what we can to have a responsible production, where we do our part in taking care of the environment. Recycling is a part of our production and one of the environmental initiatives we have is to recycle all excess plastic from our production. As part of the plastic industry we want to encourage to a more environmentally friendly industry, where the environment is paramount. We always try to find environmentally friendly solutions to the challenges we face when working with plastic. E.g. we always make sure that all plastic pellets are swept up of from the ground when goods are delivered. If the plastic pellets are not swept of the ground, it will blow out into our nature and into our drains. Therefore, we have made sure to make a routine, to handle all plastic pellets properly so that it does not end in the nature. We also honour this responsibility by focusing on the oil A Key Performance Indicator: spilt on the floor during production. We have managed Over the next couple of years, and in the end of 2021 at to decrease our oil waste during the last 10 years. In the latest C.K. Produktion A/S will have developed an addition to this, our cooling system for the production environment policy 7 8 Supporting the Human Rights C.K. Produktion A/S complies and respects human rights. We believe that all companies around the globe have a responsibility to protect human rights this includes ourselves. In Denmark the work conditions are some of the best, if not the best, in the world. Therefore the human rights are rarely violated when having a business in Denmark. This does not mean we can kick back and relax regarding human rights, we still support the human rights for all our employees, and will continue to make sure, that they are never violated. In addition to this, we also find it important to acknowledge our responsibility regarding business partners and people affected by our business We will not use suppliers or do business with anyone who violates the human rights. During the last year, and in the future, we are actively trying to incorporate the 10 principles of the UN's Global Compact into our everyday life in the company, and use these as guidelines for a sustainable business strategy, which also support our non-violation of human rights. 9
