C O R P O R AT E RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 PVH is one of the most admired fashion and lifestyle companies in the world. We power brands that drive FASHION FORWARD – FOR GOOD. Our brand portfolio includes the iconic CALVIN This, our 11th annual CR Report, provides information KLEIN, TOMMY HILFIGER, Van Heusen, IZOD, and performance data on our operations during our ARROW, Speedo *, Warner’s, Olga and Geoffrey Beene 2018 calendar year. We report our performance under brands, as well as the digital-centric True & Co. the Global Reporting Initiative’s (“GRI”) Standards intimates brand. We market a variety of goods under under the “Core” option and in line with the ten these and other nationally and internationally known principles of the UN Global Compact. Questions, owned and licensed brands. PVH has over 38,000 comments or feedback regarding this Report or our associates operating in over 40 countries and $9.7 Forward Fashion strategy are welcomed. Please direct billion in annual revenues. That’s the Power of Us. them to cr@pvh.com. That’s the Power of PVH. Table of Contents 03 AWARDS 04 A LETTER FROM 05 A LETTER 06 FORWARD 09 OUR OUR CHAIRMAN FROM OUR CR FASHION BRANDS & CEO LEADERSHIP INTRODUCTION 11 ELIMINATE 12 END WASTE 13 ELIMINATE 14 INNOVATE 17 SOURCE CARBON HAZARDOUS FOR ETHICALLY EMISSIONS CHEMICALS AND CIRCULARITY MICROFIBERS 19 AMPLIFY 20 PROMOTE 21 ADVANCE 22 RECRUIT 23 REGENERATE WORKER SAFE LIVING WAGES ETHICALLY MATERIALS VOICE WORKPLACES 26 EMPOWER 27 FOSTER 28 DEVELOP 29 PROVIDE ACCESS 30 EDUCATE WOMEN INCLUSION TALENT TO WATER THE FUTURE & DIVERSITY 32 SASB 34 PVH 36 GRI REFERENCE PERFORMANCE INDEX TABLE SUMMARY *The Speedo brand is licensed for North America and the Caribbean in perpetuity from Speedo International Limited. 2 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 TA B L E O F C O N T E N T S 100 BEST CORPORATE BEST PLACES TO CITIZENS LIST WORK IN RETAIL CR MAGAZINE FORTUNE MAGAZINE #1 Apparel Company & GREAT PLACES TO WORK THE WORLD’S MOST U.S. SECRETARY ADMIRED COMPANIES OF STATE AWARD FORTUNE MAGAZINE Corporate Excellence 100 MOST SUSTAINABLE BEST EMPLOYERS COMPANIES FOR WOMEN BARRON’S MAGAZINE FORBES MAGAZINE THE WORLD’S MOST BEST EMPLOYERS INNOVATIVE COMPANIES FOR DIVERSITY FAST COMPANY MAGAZINE FORBES MAGAZINE TOMMY HILFIGER an honoree in “Style” 100% ON 2018 TOP FIVE IN CORPORATE 4 CATEGORIES EQUALITY INDEX HR.COM HUMAN RIGHTS CAMPAIGN 2018 LEAD Awards AGENTS OF CHANGE LEADING LADIES AWARD FASHION 4 DEVELOPMENT Awarded to Melanie Steiner WEare PROUD 3 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 AWARDS A LETTER FROM OUR CHAIRMAN AND CEO 2 0 1 8 W A S A N O U T S T A N D I N G Y E A R F O R P V H . We furthered our commitment to our consumers by delivering excellent products offered at great values, and continued to invest in areas that are most impacted by the changing dynamics in the industry – the growing prominence of digital, the importance of having a nimble and responsive supply chain, harnessing the power of data to personalize consumer experiences, and further investments around sustainability. I celebrated my 25th anniversary with PVH in 2018 As members of the UN Global Compact, we continued and reflected upon my experience and how our to support this critical initiative and remain dedicated organization has evolved. From our associates’ to practicing sustainable and socially responsible embodiment of our values and our efforts to invest in policies, while also providing transparency on how they their long-term success, to our ongoing commitment are being implemented. to Corporate Responsibility (“CR”), I am so proud of what our organization stands for. We recognize We pledged to push toward renewable electricity our opportunity as an industry leader to consider through joining RE100 and reiterated our commitment CR throughout our business decisions to protect to combat climate change in accordance with the Paris human rights and the environment, and foster Agreement by signing the UN Fashion Charter for inclusion and diversity as well as community Climate Action. engagement. Our success is not only measured by our business results, but also by how we achieve them. The opportunities for PVH are endless as we continue to create positive change and build a more sustainable In 2018, we developed the next evolution of our CR future through collaboration, transparency, strategy – Forward Fashion as we continue to embrace innovation, and inclusion. Our commitment to our change and position our company for ongoing success. consumers, associates and communities drives us to This new strategy marks our commitment to be even do better every day, and the passion we share unites more ambitious and transparent in everything we are us across this incredible organization. This is the Power determined to achieve. Our vision for the future is of Us. This is the Power of PVH. to reduce negative impacts to zero, increase positive impacts to 100% and improve over one million lives across our value chain. We believe that this strategy truly exemplifies our company’s purpose and the way we should all do business. Emanuel Chirico, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer Alongside our peers, we committed to a number of significant initiatives that I am particularly proud of. We made decisive moves to demonstrate our support for Inclusion and Diversity, including our involvement with the CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion™, where we joined more than 350 CEOs in a pledge to advance inclusion and diversity in the workplace. We created in partnership with the Council of Fashion Designers of America, the first white-paper report on I&D in our industry, calling on our colleagues and peers to do more to offer equal opportunity to all. 4 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 A LET TER FROM OUR CHAIRMAN AND CEO A LETTER FROM OUR CR LEADERSHIP 2 018 marked a year of action for PVH, one that pushed us further than ever before. We made large-scale public commitments and stood alongside our like-minded peers to A D V O C A T E F O R A M O R E S U S T A I N A B L E F U T U R E . Our vision is to drive fashion forward for good and we want to take our associates, our partners, and our consumers along on our journey. Within our new strategy, Forward Fashion, we are Above all, what fuels us is the opportunity to create most excited to announce our 15 targets, aimed to truly lasting impact. In this Report, we are taking deepen our level of ambition, keep us accountable, a moment to celebrate stories of our impact: the and ensure confidence in our approach. We are changes to everyday life our work has enabled and the grounding these priorities in areas where we can have people who have in turn inspired us to keep pushing, the greatest impact and setting targets that are specific, including our own team members. We are committed measurable, and time-bound. Internally, they give us a to making the hard decisions, working collaboratively shared roadmap and a clear objective to work toward. to effect change at scale, and sharing our lessons Externally, they represent action-oriented leadership, and challenges along the way. of which we are deeply proud. We like any large business, face complex challenges in ensuring our We hope you’ll join us. business is responsible and sustainable, and Forward Fashion is our commitment to getting it right. In this, our 11th annual CR Report, we are highlighting Melanie Steiner, Marissa Pagnani McGowan, not only our successes from the past year but also our Chief Risk Officer Senior Vice President opportunities for improvement in an effort to drive Corporate Responsibility progress through transparency. We continue to evolve our approach to reporting by measuring against metrics set by the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (“SASB”) and again aligning our strategy with the UN Sustainable Development Goals. MELANIE STEINER MARISSA PAGNANI MCGOWAN Chief Risk Officer Senior Vice President Corporate Responsibility 5 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 A LET TER FROM OUR CR LEADERSHIP ZERO 100% 1M+ We believe that brilliant design and creative Through Forward Fashion, we aim to reduce our solutions are not just reserved for the clothes negative impacts to zero, increase positive impacts we make, but also for the way we make them. to 100% and improve the over one million lives There is a story woven into every piece we throughout our value chain: our associates create. It is the story of the fingers that pick the and supply chain workers, their families and cotton, the hands that spin the fabric, and the their communities. communities where they are crafted. A story about how the materials are selected, how our factories The fashion industry is changing, and at PVH, are powered and their impact on people and the we recognize our responsibility and opportunity environment. A story about the kind of business to drive fashion forward – for good. we are and the one we want to be. That’s the Power of Us. That’s the Power of PVH. Forward Fashion is our strategy to transform how clothes are made and (re)used, and the actions we will take to move our business and the fashion industry toward a more innovative and responsible future. We recognize that resources are limited, and for us, human rights are non-negotiable. 6 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 FO RWA R D FA S H I O N / I N T RO D U C T I O N WHERE WE FOCUS We are prioritizing our impact on three strategic focus areas where we can have the most transformative change. Within these areas, we are focusing on 15 priorities, each with a specific, measurable, and timebound target for our business to achieve. Forward Fashion represents a deepening of our commitment to do the right thing and a renewed sense of urgency to use our scale to transform ourselves and the industry. 15 Priorities ZERO 100% 1M+ REDUCE NEGATIVE INCREASE POSITIVE IMPROVE 1 MILLION+ LIVES IMPACTS TO ZERO IMPACTS TO 100% ACROSS OUR VALUE CHAIN Our products and business Our products and packaging are Our business invests in critical generate zero waste, ethically and sustainably sourced community-level gender, health and carbon emissions and from suppliers who respect human education initiatives, enabling opportunity hazardous chemicals rights and are good employers for generations to come ELIMINATE CARBON EMISSIONS SOURCE ETHICALLY EMPOWER WOMEN END WASTE AMPLIFY WORKER VOICE FOSTER INCLUSION & DIVERSITY ELIMINATE HAZARDOUS CHEMICALS PROMOTE SAFE WORKPLACES DEVELOP TALENT AND MICROFIBERS ADVANCE LIVING WAGES PROVIDE ACCESS TO WATER INNOVATE FOR CIRCULARITY RECRUIT ETHICALLY EDUCATE THE FUTURE REGENERATE MATERIALS 7 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 FO RWA R D FA S H I O N / I N T RO D U C T I O N HOW WE DRIVE FORWARD Creating lasting change in our industry is bigger than PVH. It requires strong partnerships, technological advances, scalable programs, and the power of our collective passion. To realize our vision, we will think creatively to solve today’s issues, and anticipate the challenges of tomorrow while transparently sharing our progress. ENGAGE We will only achieve our ambitions by working collaboratively. Partnerships are critical to drive forward business and industry transformation. INNOVATE MEASURE We innovate tools and solutions Tracking, quantifying, evaluating, through partnerships to transform and reporting our impact are how clothes are made and consumed essential steps toward achieving at all levels (how we operate, source, our goals and inspiring business make, sell, and re-use). improvements. IMPROVE We work toward fixing existing issues and enabling long-term solutions to catalyze change at scale. 8 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 FO RWA R D FA S H I O N / I N T RO D U C T I O N OUR BRANDS Each of our branded businesses contribute something unique to our portfolio and to our corporate responsibility efforts. Together, the Power of PVH is driving fashion forward – for good. Our businesses are an integral part of our Forward Fashion strategy and are equally committed to delivering against the PVH corporate responsibility priorities, while also amplifying their own distinctive ways of working and connecting with their consumers to create a more sustainable future. MAKE IT POSSIBLE With hard work, and a positive outlook, anything is possible. Tommy Hilfiger’s story is proof that if you are determined, you can create opportunity in the face of any challenge. Today, we face some of the biggest challenges yet – from climate change and resource scarcity to inequality and prejudice. One fashion brand can’t change all of this. But we will do everything in our power to create fashion that opens minds and closes loops. This is our time. A time for belief and a time for determination. It’s time to make it possible. DEFY BOUNDARIES Calvin Klein has always rallied around bold and progressive ideals. Through our commitments, Calvin Klein will help reinvent what’s possible and create a future that defies the status quo. We will break free from the boundaries that put people in boxes and the ideas and attitudes that hold us back. We will build a business with zero tolerance for injustice, where fashion has nothing to hide. We will help change the climate for the better and make products that make fashion a force for good. Together, we will defy expectations and define the future. IN GOOD COMPANY At Heritage we manage a portfolio of lifestyle brands. We are category experts and our products are best in class. For over a hundred years, we’ve pioneered and embraced change by placing value on our people and the world around us. As we look ahead, we recognize the power of continuous improvement and are committed to driving positive change for our associates, the environment and the communities where we live and work. 9 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 OUR BRANDS ZERO R E D U C E N E G AT I V E I M PAC T S TO Z E RO To drive fashion forward, we cannot stop at simply reducing our negative impacts, we must work to eliminate them. Our ambition is for our products and business operations to generate zero waste, zero carbon emissions and zero hazardous chemicals, and for our products to be truly circular in the consumer cycle. Priority: Eliminate Carbon Emissions–­Protect Priority: Eliminate Hazardous Chemicals our global climate by reducing energy use and Microfibers–­Eliminate water pollution and powering our business through from our wet processors renewable sources Key Target: Water leaving our wet processors Key Target: Our offices, warehouses and stores will have zero hazardous chemicals and be will be powered by 100% renewable electricity filtered for harmful microfibers by 2025 by 2030 and we will drive a 30% reduction in our supply chain emissions by 2030 Priority: Innovate for Circularity–­Foster and harness innovation to design and manufacture Priority: End Waste–­Divert the waste we send products that eliminate product waste to landfill Key Target: Three of our most commonly Key Target: All PVH offices, distribution purchased products will be completely centers and stores will achieve zero waste circular including the full traceability of key and eliminate single-use plastics by 2030 raw materials by 2025 10 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 ZERO / INTRODUCTION ZERO KEY STORIES ABOUT OUR EFFORTS TO REDUCE N E G AT I V E I M PA C T S T O Z E R O E L I M I N AT E C A R B O N E M I S S I O N S PVH joins key partners in As a signatory of the Fashion Industry Charter for Climate Action, launched at the 2018 UN Climate accelerating the path to Change conference (COP24), we further pledged to reduce our indirect greenhouse gas emissions a low-carbon economy throughout our supply chain by 30%. The charter, which is aligned with the goals of the Paris Climate Agreement, brings together leading fashion brand At PVH, we aim to eliminate carbon emissions to owners, retailers, suppliers, membership organizations, protect our global climate. In 2018, we declared our and non-governmental organizations to address continued support to combat climate change through climate impact across the fashion industry’s entire public pledges and actions, which included joining value chain, and recognizes the role collaboration plays the RE100 initiative, committing to the Science Based in achieving a cleaner, low-carbon future. It envisions Targets initiative (“SBTi”) and proudly signing the the industry achieving net zero emissions by 2050 and Fashion Industry Charter for Climate Action. defines the substantive issues that will be addressed The issues that the global fashion industry face by the signatories. The Charter presents a milestone around climate impact are complex and require opportunity for cooperation and collective agreement multi-disciplinary and collaboration approaches to to drive policy change and advance industry actions solve. We are proud to advocate for action alongside at scale. like-minded partners and hope to inspire other companies to join us as we accelerate the path The fashion industry, when united, can be an to a strong, low-carbon economy. impactful voice in setting new standards and contributing to sustainable development for the RE100 is a global corporate leadership initiative, led by sector and beyond. The Climate Group in partnership with CDP, bringing together businesses committed to 100% renewable electricity. Our joining signifies our commitment to source 100% renewable electricity for our facilities by 2030, with an interim target of 50% by 2025. By investing in renewable electricity, we increase the demand for – and delivery of – renewable energy globally, signaling our prioritization of this initiative and willingness to reciprocate the commitments that we are asking of our supply chain partners. By joining the SBTi, a collaboration between CDP, United Nations Global Compact, World Resources Institute and WWF, we committed to set, within two years, a science-based greenhouse gas emissions reduction target in line with climate science. 11 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 Z E R O / E L I M I N AT E C A R B O N E M I S S I O N S END WASTE Digital showrooms bring We further evolved the digital strategy we instituted with the introduction of our digital showrooms by PVH into the 21st century: implementing 3D design. This technology allows designers to make better decisions based on life-like A high-tech solution to digitalized images. Merchants then utilize those an age-old problem images to merchandise the assortment. The finalized assortment is incorporated into digital selling tools, reducing the need for physical samples and ultimately transforming the sales process. Eliminating physical At PVH, we recognize the value that creativity, samples reduces textile waste, energy use, and technology, and innovation have to our business, emissions associated with the production and shipping and on our efforts to minimize our environmental of sample product, as well as the property footprint impact. By continually modernizing the way we work needed for storage of physical inventory. This approach and improving our operational processes, we also enables stakeholders to make decisions closer to generate time and cost efficiencies, while reducing the sale season, allowing for more accurate forecasting and diverting waste. and ordering, and cutting the total production time by approximately 24 weeks. Retail partners expressed confidence that sales decisions could be made using the digital images, and were enthusiastic about the shared benefits of this technology. Through our own dedication to sustainable business practices, we are positively influencing industry behavior and challenging our partners to innovate their own processes and work streams. 12 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 ZERO / END WA STE E L I M I N AT E H A Z A R D O U S C H E M I C A L S A N D M I C R O F I B E R S The path to zero: We further tested in 2018 industry tools designed by the ZDHC to review different components of chemical transparency and management practices, including the Gateway platform and InCheck reporting. By doing so, we were able to collaboration are key evaluate the types of chemicals that our suppliers are to PVH’s chemical using and the results of their wastewater testing. By asking our strategic wet processors to register management strategy on the ZDHC Gateway, upload their chemical inventories, assess their inventories through the InCheck report, and disclose wastewater test data, We made significant progress in 2018 against our we can accurately capture their conformance to both commitment to eliminate hazardous chemicals ZDHC’s Manufacturing Restricted Substances List and from our supply chain by utilizing standardized PVH’s Restricted Substance List whereby supporting industry tools and evolving our full-cycle approach remediation where needed. to responsible chemical management. This is a Taking these critical steps in data collection and complex endeavor and requires an understanding analysis, and more importantly, sharing our process of our wet-processing base (i.e., mills and tanneries), and results, is creating a level of transparency and chemical performance and compliance at each collaboration with respect to chemicals and chemical facility, responsible design decisions, transparency in management that has yet to exist in the industry. chemical recipes, and baseline reporting. Key to these We are proud to be recognized by SAC as one of the efforts was the adoption of the Sustainable Apparel top five apparel companies/brand owners by scale Coalition (“SAC”) Higg Facility Environmental Module of adoption of the Higg FEM and remain committed (“Higg FEM”) and deeper understanding of the to using our strong position to drive integration and Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals Programme adoption of this and other tools across the industry. (“ZDHC”) tools. Through our rollout of the Higg FEM in 2017 and 2018, we were able to collect data in order to better understand our suppliers’ environmental performance with the goal of driving improvements by setting targets. The Higg FEM is a measurement tool that enables us to understand the environmental impact of our supply chain by measuring the performance and work of our suppliers using a common data set, self-reported by our suppliers and verified by SACaccredited assessors. 13 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 Z E R O / E L I M I N AT E H A Z A R D O U S C H E M I C A L S A N D M I C R O F I B E R S I N N OVAT E FO R C I R C U L A R I T Y Implementing circularity into new clothes. As a core partner and member of the Advisory Board, PVH will work with the Foundation to through the power address the issues that lead to pollution and waste. of partnership Global Fashion Agenda PVH signed onto Global Fashion Agenda’s 2020 Circular Fashion System Commitment, a pledge to We are committed to moving our industry from a accelerate the transition to a circular fashion system linear to a circular model. Circularity looks beyond by committing to set targets for 2020. The pledge the current take-make-dispose model and aims to addresses four areas: designing for circularity, redefine growth, focusing on positive societal benefits. increasing the volume of used garments collected, Designing systems for waste elimination, keeping increasing the volume of used garments resold, products in use and recovering materials at the end and increasing garments made from recycled of each life cycle, optimizes both value and utility. post-consumer textile fibers. Our first step to incorporate circularity into our In 2018, we hosted our first-ever Sustainable Innovation business is our participation in multi-stakeholder Forum. The two-day event in New York City introduced groups that focus on circularity in the apparel over 500 PVH associates to sustainable innovations, industry. In 2018, we announced our participation in selected by Fashion for Good, that are transforming three key global initiatives focused on accelerating our industry and the trailblazing innovators leading the transition to a sustainable fashion industry based the charge. The audience also heard from PVH leaders on circular economy principles: the Global Fashion driving this work across a range of functions, including Agenda, Fashion for Good, and the Ellen MacArthur design, supply and marketing. Fashion for Good’s Foundation’s Make Fashion Circular Initiative. These Innovation Manager, Eva van der Brugge, also spoke organizations are focused on creating systemic change to attendees. through innovation and collaboration. We are working alongside like-minded partners to implement our shared goals through knowledge exchange, policy engagement, and industry alignment. “ This event offered a real Fashion for Good We believe that the fashion industry can change only if platform for exchange innovations are brought to scale and our partnership of K N O W L E D G E and with Fashion for Good will help catalyze these efforts. We share a commitment to cross-industry collaboration opinions; an example of and disruptive innovation in the most impactful areas true intention to bring in the fashion supply chain, from raw materials to end-of-use. PVH will play a strategic role in setting the industry forward Fashion for Good’s innovation agenda, defining focus and L E A R N about areas, participating in the selection of new innovators, providing expertise and mentorship to circular apparel new innovations.” startups, and piloting innovations with the end goal – Eva van der Brugge, of bringing them to scale. Innovation Manager, Fashion For Good Ellen MacArthur Foundation The goal of the Ellen MacArthur Foundation is to establish a new fashion system based on three circular Amidst engaging vignettes of sustainable materials, economy principles: (i) business models that keep attendees interacted with innovators from Fashion clothes in use, (ii) materials that are renewable and For Good’s network, exchanging ideas and inspiring safe, and (iii) solutions that transform used clothes change. 14 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 Z E R O / I N N O V AT E F O R C I R C U L A R I T Y ADDITIONAL HIGHLIGHTS E L I M I N AT E E N D WA S T E E L I M I N AT E I N N O VAT E F O R CARBON HAZARDOUS CIRCUL ARIT Y EMISSIONS CHEMICALS AND MICROFIBERS • We joined We Are Still • We collected 3,205 • We developed and • The option for consumers In, a coalition made up pounds of fabric and integrated restricted to utilize Give Back Box of more than 3,500 textile waste through substance list (“RSL”) was added to our new investors, companies, our partnership training for suppliers Heritage Brands e-commerce mayors, governors, college with FABSCRAP. into our existing online websites. Give Back Box presidents, and other platform for Global sends consumers their leaders committed to • The PVH Dress Quality Management, product in a shipping box action on climate change Furnishings Group which will be rolled out designed for reuse when in response to the U.S.’s worked to reduce in 2019. sending unwanted textiles withdrawal from the the thickness of their to charities like Goodwill. Paris Accord. packaging polybags, • 27 suppliers participated saving nearly 200 tons in a wastewater pilot, to • Two PVH facilities of plastic. better understand supply received BREEAM chain Manufacturing sustainability • The PVH Neckwear team Restricted Substances List certifications. re-engineered its (“MRSL”) compliance and cardboard shipping wastewater quality, and to • We participated in the cartons, resulting in less identify key risks for CDP Climate Change cardboard used in non-compliance. survey for the third a majority of units. consecutive year. • Two partner mills began • The PVH Dress their journey in the Clean Furnishings Group by Design program, which donated fabric scraps concludes in 2019. to Empire Quilters, an organization that reuses the materials to produce blankets for charities. 15 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 ZERO / ADDITIONAL HIGHLIGHTS 100% INCREASE POSITIVE I M PAC T S TO 10 0 % Fashion has the power to be a positive force in the world. So, when we identify areas where we can make an impact for our people and planet, we won’t stop at halfway. Our ambition is for 100% of our products and packaging to be ethically and sustainably sourced, and for 100% of our suppliers to respect human rights and be good employers. Priority: Source Ethically–Expand the Priority: Advance Living Wages–Create application of our social and environmental conditions for national living wage agreements standards to the manufacturing of all products through industry-wide collective bargaining and materials linked to our purchasing practices Key Target: 100% of PVH suppliers will meet Key Target: 100% of our key suppliers in two or exceed all of our social and environmental key production countries by 2025 and four standards by 2030 by 2030 proactively support industry-wide collective bargaining to achieve living wages Priority: Amplify Worker Voice–Improve working environments through worker Priority: Recruit Ethically–Partner with engagement and representation our suppliers to ensure ethical recruitment practices for migrant workers Key Target: 100% of workers employed by key suppliers will have their voices heard through Key Target: 100% of migrant workers at our democratically elected representatives by 2025 Level 1 and key Level 2 suppliers will not pay recruitment fees by 2025 Priority: Promote Safe Workplaces–Ensure safe and healthy workplaces for all workers Priority: Regenerate Materials–Transition in our supply chain key product and packaging materials to sustainable alternatives, and support Key Target: 100% of our suppliers will regenerative agriculture practices, while promote and maintain safe and healthy work protecting animal welfare environments by 2025 Key Target: Sustainably source 100% of PVH’s cotton and viscose by 2025, and 100% of polyester by 2030 16 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 100% / INTRODUCTION 100% KEY STORIES ABOUT OUR EFFORTS TO INCREASE P O S I T I V E I M PAC T S TO 1 0 0 % S O U R C E E T H I C A L LY Evolution and elevation Vendors who demonstrate exceptional ability to self-manage social and environmental standards and of supplier relations have factory-level verification processes in place are considered for Gold Accreditation program benefits. through the Gold Through the accreditation process, PVH obtains direct Accreditation Program insight into vendors’ best practices in compliance and corporate responsibility, and gains exposure to how vendors manage their supply chains. Our CR regional teams shadow the factory audit teams, observe the In 2018, we expanded our supplier empowerment factories’ worker-management committees directly, program, the Gold Accreditation Program, to a new and analyze in-depth interviews with both vendor and class of strategic suppliers and broadened the scope of factory management. the program beyond human rights and worker safety to include a significant focus on environmental issues. Gold status vendors become collaborative partners with In evolving our definition of “best in class” to include whom we can engage in co-learning initiatives with vendors who integrate both strong environmental and drive strategic projects, building trust as we work and social supply chain management systems, we to support compliance initiatives beyond assessments. encouraged suppliers to look beyond basic compliance. In addressing our shared goals, we promote vendor self-ownership of corporate responsibility practices and empower our partners to make changes that improve the lives of their workers and reduce their impact on the environment. 17 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 1 0 0 % / S O U R C E E T H I C A L LY S O U R C E E T H I C A L LY Highlights of partnership projects include: • Esquel’s pilot of the new Social & Labor Convergence Project (industry-wide assessment) in their factories in China, which led to the first successful SLCP verification equivalent case in the East and Southeast Asia region. • Working with PT Ungaran, to help two of their factories achieve High Performer Status under the Better Work program. • Implementing a customized program alongside MAS Intimates to facilitate the migration of more female team members into non-traditional job roles, such as mechanics, while creating an environment for them to thrive and progress in their careers. • Partnering with Brandix to provide access to water to employees and their communities, specifically improving the quality of life and safety of the women responsible for finding the resources their families need, who would otherwise have to travel long distances to obtain water for daily use. The commitment of these vendors is recognized through the acceptance of their own internal audits and a three-year waiver of additional assessments. The trust between PVH and our partners reduces audit fatigue and drives shared benefits such as the incorporation of industry tools and cost savings. By validating suppliers’ efforts to strengthen their initiatives beyond code of conduct compliance, our Gold vendors become the best advocates for our shared goals. 18 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 1 0 0 % / S O U R C E E T H I C A L LY AMPLIF Y WORKER VOICE Communication By supporting democratic workplace elections and sharing problem-solving techniques, the workplace fuels change: PVH cooperation program builds factory expertise beyond the remediation of issues identified through institutes a workplace assessments. Assisting factories in the implementation cooperation program of functioning worker-management committees with fairly elected representatives enables them to proactively improve working conditions and amplify the voices of their workers. In partnership with Better Work, a joint initiative of the UN’s International Labour Organization and As the first step in our commitment to elevate worker the International Finance Corporation dedicated to voices and improve dialogue within factories, we have improving working conditions for workers throughout implemented a workplace communication training the garment industry, we continued our efforts to at 46 of our most strategic factories. This training establish a workplace cooperation program with our module, conducted by PVH CR advisors, facilitates suppliers while simultaneously training our own team dialogue between workers and management at the to act as advisors at the factory level. factory level, helping to identify common ground and goals for improvement. The workplace communication While our suppliers have demonstrated tremendous training both acknowledges and emphasizes the progress through remediation, we believe that respective viewpoints and responsibilities of managers successful supplier engagement must move beyond and workers to communicate their concerns and assessments and that an advisory approach to this work collaborate to find solutions. In a factory setting, the ensures continuous improvements for the benefit of workers are often the first to take note of physical or both workers and business. environmental risks, thereby, playing a critical role in effective decision-making and creative action plans. “By addressing the difficulty of changing communication habits and by empowering trainees to try out new communication methods while R E S P E C T I N G C U L T U R E , I believe we can make communication on a daily basis easier, and as a result lay the groundwork for improved workermanagement relations and general worker wellness within the factories.” – Zoe Zheng, CR Advisor, PVH Shanghai 19 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 100% / AMPLIF Y WORKER VOICE PROMOTE SAFE WORKPL ACES Industry collaboration and The work of the Accord did not end with the agreement’s 2018 expiration nor can its goals be transformation through solved in a single agreement. Therefore, the coalition announced an extension to expand its work through Accord remediation 2021, which PVH continues to support. We addressed 98% of the initial issues uncovered at our suppliers’ factories and remediated over 95% of all issues We were one of the first companies to commit to the uncovered through 2018, and we are proud to serve as Accord on Fire and Building Safety in Bangladesh the lead company in all of our multi-brand facilities. (the “Accord”) that was formed immediately We feel confident that workers better understand following the 2013 Rana Plaza tragedy. The Accord their rights to operate and are empowered to identify has succeeded in bringing a major portion of the and communicate their concerns. We are invested country’s extensive garment industry up to fire, in the Accord’s efforts to transition compliance building, and electrical safety standards, as well as responsibilities to the Bangladeshi government, in establishing in-factory training programs, facilitating furtherance of our ongoing commitment to ensuring the implementation of factory health and safety safe and healthy workplaces for all members of our committees, and developing a mechanism for workers supply chain. to report health and safety risks. Through this industry collaboration, our efforts have established a singular, united, and consistent voice with a clear message that factories must be safe and workers have the right to refuse to work in unsafe conditions. 20 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 100% / PROMOTE SAFE WORKPL ACES ADVANCE LIVING WAGE S Reaffirming our We recognize that realizing living wages for all workers is a challenge across the apparel industry and commitment to fair labor, that sustainable improvements can only be attained through multi-stakeholder collaboration. We joined PVH becomes first Action, Collaboration, Transformation (“ACT”) in US-based brand to join ACT 2018, which is a contractual collaboration of brand owners and IndustriALL Global Union committed to advancing living wages for industry workers through collective bargaining linked to purchasing practices. PVH’s longstanding commitment to human rights and We are the first U.S. based company to sign the fair compensation is rooted in A Shared Commitment, agreement. We view ACT as a critical partnership in our code of conduct. We believe that every worker has helping to address living wage gaps at the country level. a right to compensation that is sufficient to meet basic Through ACT, we are supporting collective bargaining needs and provide some discretionary income. agreements at an industry level in producing countries. We publicly reaffirmed the requirement of our business partners to uphold our code of conduct, as well PVH believes that business practices can impact as issued new guidance to achieve living wages through suppliers’ abilities to promote safe working conditions industry-wide collective bargaining at the country and uphold living wage payments. As an ACT member, level, and continued to support living wages through PVH has committed to evaluate and improve upon our own business practices. our own business practices to make it possible for our suppliers to pay workers the agreed upon living wage and train our global associates on responsible sourcing and buying practices to embed our commitments across the company. 21 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 10 0% / ADVAN C E LIVING WAGE S R E C R U I T E T H I C A L LY PVH introduces a Migrant labor is heavily utilized around the world, making this an issue that requires partnership with comprehensive migrant both industry peers and suppliers. We joined and currently serve on the Steering Committee of the labor policy Responsible Labor Initiative (“RLI”), a multi-industry, multi-stakeholder initiative focused on ensuring that the rights of those workers vulnerable to forced labor We revised our migrant labor policy in 2018 to provide in global supply chains are consistently respected more guidance to suppliers on how to address modern and promoted. As the first apparel sector member to slavery and forced labor in their operations. We join RLI, we have worked to accelerate labor market recognized the need to provide practical guidance transformation through harmonized due diligence and to help suppliers proactively address human rights collective action. We are committed to partnering with risks specific to migrant labor during all phases of the our suppliers to ensure ethical recruitment practices migrant worker life cycle (pre-departure, employment, for migrant workers. We are one of the first in our and end-of-service). industry to be pushing for solutions to these pervasive cross-sector issues and will continue to champion Our CR Supply Chain Guidelines have always stated for change. that we have a “no-fees” policy for migrant workers, but the updated policy goes into greater detail, defining recruitment fees and explicitly stating which fees workers should not be charged. We have also included additional guidance on migrant worker contracts, freedom of movement, and how to conduct due diligence on recruitment agencies. 22 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 1 0 0 % / R E C R U I T E T H I C A L LY R E G E N E R AT E M AT E R I A L S What’s the alternative? How2Recycle In 2018, PVH became the first apparel company to join Sustainable materials move How2Recycle, a U.S. and Canada-based standardized labeling system that clearly communicates recycling us forward instructions to the public. Ocean-bound Plastic Hangers We challenged our business leaders to evaluate their The Underwear Group brought together plastic and use of product and packaging materials, and identify hanger suppliers to drive the creation of ocean-bound opportunities to transition to more sustainable plastic hangers, made from plastic at risk of entering alternatives. The response was inspiring. Work that the world’s oceans. We are currently testing these had previously been done independently began to hangers in stores in the U.S. come together cross-functionally and across our three business groups. The PVH Corporate Responsibility team provided facilitators and supporters of the programs that our partners and colleagues have since integrated into their businesses. Better Cotton Initiative PVH joined the Better Cotton Initiative, a program that exists to make global cotton production better for the people who produce it, for the environment it grows in, and for the sector’s future. We set both an internal and external public target for cotton use. Within the first year, we estimated we will have exceeded our internal goal and are at approximately 30% of our public target of 100% by 2025. Polyester Our business increased its use of recycled polyester, resulting in the acknowledgement of PVH on the Textile Exchange’s Preferred Fiber Benchmark List of Top Industry Users of Recycled Polyester. Packaging By switching to sustainable, non-plastic packaging alternatives wherever possible, PVH’s overall packaging is now 74% recyclable. The PVH Dress Furnishings Group is working to minimize plastic elements from our dress shirt packaging and expect to reduce plastic use by 68 tons starting in 2020. 23 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 1 0 0 % / R E G E N E R AT E M AT E R I A L S ADDITIONAL HIGHLIGHTS SOURCE AMPLIF Y PROMOTE SAFE R E G E N E R AT E E T H I C A L LY WORKER VOICE W O R K P L AC E S M AT E R I A L S • We continued to • The global corporate • We are a Steering • PVH has enacted a policy expand the scope of our CR team completed Committee member of that by 2019 all down in assessment program to Better Work’s Industrial LaBS (Life and Building products we produce must include additional Level Relations e-course. Safety) and have helped be verified through the 2 suppliers, specifically, shape its strategy as the Responsible Down Standard. strategic mills and RECRUIT program rolls out at other wet processing E T H I C A L LY scale in Vietnam in 2019. • We have discontinued units (laundries and dye the use of angora in houses) and assessing • Five factories that our products. • PVH joined the key trim suppliers. produce product for Responsible Labor PVH took part in LaBS • 89% of our licensee Initiative, a multipilots in Vietnam. factories met industry group or exceeded our committed to ensuring • 77% of our eligible supplier performance that the rights and factories have completed expectations.1 dignity of those workers Accord-mandated vulnerable to forced employee trainings on • Our regional CR labor in supply chains fire and building safety teams are using the are respected and and have an active results from the SAC promoted through occupational health Higg FEM tool to better responsible recruitment and safety committee. facilitate conversations and employment with suppliers on how to practices. One of our improve environmental PVH CR team members performance. sits on the Steering Committee. 1 Achieved green, yellow, social assessment color rating (excludes De minimis (gray)). See our GRI Index for color definitions. 24 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 100% / ADDITIONAL HIGHLIGHTS 1M+ IMPROVE 1 MILLION+ LIVES AC ROS S OUR VALUE C HAIN At PVH we honor the fundamental role our Priority: Develop Talent–Develop a talented collective workforce has on the success and skilled workforce that embodies PVH’s of our business, and we are committed to values and an entrepreneurial spirit while continually improving the lives of our associates empowering associates to design their future. and supply chain workers, their families and Key Target: Expand professional skills their communities. development and digital literacy programs Our ambition is for our business to positively through PVH University to reach all 38,000+ affect the over 1 million lives across our value PVH associates globally by 2023 chain, focusing on education and opportunities for women and children, ensuring access to clean water for all and continuing to champion Priority: Provide Access to Water–Ensure inclusion and diversity. access to clean water for communities in our key basins through collaborative action Priority: Empower Women–Remove barriers Key Target: Establish five collective action to advancement and create pathways to projects in our most water-stressed sourcing opportunity and choice for women in our communities by 2025 supply chain Key Target: Professional and life skills Priority: Educate the Future–Support the development programs will be made available needs of women and children around the world to 500,000 women across our supply chain by creating safe spaces, improving access to by 2030 education and enhancing quality of life Key Target: Reach 135,000 individuals Priority: Foster Inclusion & Diversity–Create worldwide through early education and an inclusive environment where every individual childcare services, teacher training, parenting is valued resources and training, and youth employability training services by 2023 Key Target: Expand unconscious bias training to all 38,000+ PVH associates globally by 2023 and achieve gender parity in leadership positions by 2030 25 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 1M+ / INTRODUCTION 1M+ KEY STORIES ABOUT OUR EFFORTS TO IMPROVE 1 MILLION+ LIVES ACROSS OUR VALUE CHAIN EMPOWER WOMEN The Future Is Female: youth The program is held to a 50% women-served gender mandate, and the staff is dedicated to encouraging employability program the consideration of gender equality throughout all aspects of the project. Prioritizing gender equality enables young women within this program yielded 63% female representation in Hawassa across the training programs, exceeding the minimum requirements. In a specific work-readiness skills training, 71% of youth participants were female, all of whom are now currently engaged in wage-based PVH is proud of our longstanding partnership employment, allowing them to save money and explore with Save the Children, a global organization that their entrepreneur goals. gives youth a healthy start in life, the opportunity to learn, and protection from harm. In 2018, we Investment in gender-based youth programming is an invested in Save the Children’s Partnership for Youth example of upholding our commitment to removing Livelihoods program, aimed at expanding employment barriers to advancement and creating pathways to opportunities, increasing income, and improving opportunity and choice for women in our supply working conditions for young people living in Hawassa, chain. Women invest a sizable portion of their earned Ethiopia, home to our joint venture factory, and income back into their local economies, creating a nearby communities. tremendous economic impact. Currently, 34 young women from the program are employed at the PVH The Partnership for Youth Livelihoods program joint venture facility PVH Arvind Manufacturing. provides training on goal setting, relationship building, By training youth, especially females, on transferable effective speaking and listening skills, problem solving, life and employability skills that match the labor and decision making. Following the training, youth market, we empower them to improve their lives, the facilitators help the young people create Personal lives of their families and communities. Development Plans, guiding them through the selection of a livelihood opportunity and outlining steps toward achieving their goals. This preparation and support are critical precursors to their ability to self-select their employment pathway based on their newly gained skills and assessments of community needs. 26 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 1M+ / EMPOWER WOMEN FOSTER INCLUSION & DIVERSIT Y With an emphasis on We are also one of the 350 leading corporations to sign the CEO Action for Diversity and Inclusion. It is our inclusion comes a workplace commitment to creating a trusting work environment where complex and often difficult conversations are where every individual cultivated. We have promised to raise awareness about is valued unconscious bias and expand our training across our organization, from the top down. We have installed regional I&D councils. These At PVH, we are strongest when we all come together. councils have established Business Resource Groups We seek to create an environment where every (“BRGs”), which are networks to exchange ideas and individual is valued and have made a conscious engage with like-minded individuals. BRGs launched decision to focus efforts on inclusion and diversity in 2018 include one for African Americans and another (“I&D”). We believe that providing a welcoming for working parents. They joined BRGs that focused on place for people from all backgrounds, cultures, and women and the LGBTQ community. lifestyles will lead to a diverse workforce. BRGs are driven by the passion of our associates and PVH partnered with the Council of Fashion Designers executive leadership. Through grassroots efforts, of America to host an I&D interactive workshop they have been critical to the implementation of, or and panel discussion, and to release a collaborative, our participation in, educational panels, interactive research-based white paper on the topic to initiate a conversations, cultural events and, most visibly, Pride meaningful conversation within the industry. We urged celebrations in several cities around the world in 2018. partnership among our peers to create an industryThey are also a valuable resource in developing policies wide culture we could be proud of and to accurately that affect our associates and our business. represent, among our own associates, the many consumers whose lives we touch. For more information on I&D at PVH, please see https://careers.pvh.com/i/global/en/inside-look “We live in a changing world, with complex tensions that can have significant impact on people. Being able to openly discuss the uncomfortable in a S A F E E N V I R O N M E N T within our workplace inspires people to develop compassion and understanding to E M B R A C E D I F F E R E N C E S and create a S E N S E O F B E L O N G I N G .” – Monica Canto, Vice President, Inclusion & Diversity 27 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 1M+ / FOSTER INCLUSION & DIVERSIT Y D E V E LO P TA L E N T Talent development PVH University is our learning platform that provides opportunities for associates both to develop in their encourages associates to current roles and to prepare for future ones. The curriculum is organized into several academies: bring their best selves Leadership, Inclusion & Diversity, Professional Skills, to work and Supply Chain. More than 365 courses were offered in 2018 across classroom and virtual options. PVH U OnDemand online content was upgraded to include LinkedIn Learning, TED Talks, Business Behind every business success we achieve, there is a of Fashion, and Knowledge at Wharton. More than team of people supporting each step along the way. 500 people, from front-line associates to executives, Each of our associates, as well as PVH at large, benefits have participated in PVH University’s suite from the collective strength built on individual talents. of Leadership Programs. We recognize that our people are our most important asset and the ongoing development of their skills aligns For more information on Talent Development at PVH with our promise to them that they can design their please see https://careers.pvh.com/i/global/en/grow-with-us own future at PVH. “ I participated in the Leadership Foundations program which helped me to E N H A N C E M Y U N D E R S TA N D I N G of the different dimensions of leadership, e.g., Motivation and Coaching. I am applying those skills on a daily basis, and they not only allow me to be a better leader but be a better colleague” – Kathrin Ruesing, Senior Manager, Strategy, Calvin Klein North America & The Underwear Group 28 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 1 M + / D E V E L O P TA L E N T P R OV I D E AC C E S S T O WAT E R Safeguarding access to We worked to address the lack of solid waste infrastructure and the threat of land degradation. water: Protecting Lake Data collection informed the design and construction of an infrastructure plan, including the installation Hawassa Initiative of informational garbage bins to prevent litter and debris from flowing directly into the lake. Intervention activities were identified to minimize the soil erosion PVH has a partnership with leading conservation causing siltation of Lake Hawassa, including land organization World Wildlife Fund (WWF) to support stewardship plans such as planting trees and working water stewardship efforts in key sourcing communities with local farmers to identify the best crops to grow for PVH’s businesses and the broader apparel industry. on the land. PVH and WWF will work together to help conserve freshwater resources in Ethiopia’s Lake Hawassa and Alongside our key partners and technical advisors, India’s Cauvery River basins, building on existing GIZ, World Wildlife Fund (WWF) and the Rift Valley collaborative efforts by the organizations in China Lakes Basin Development Office, we will continue to and Vietnam. advance water conservation and stewardship efforts in Ethiopia and other critical water sources for our We launched the Protecting Lake Hawassa Initiative sourcing communities through exploration of new in 2018 as part of our overall commitment to ensuring technologies and educational programming, and access to clean water for local communities in key support of sustainable development policies at the basins around the world. We prioritized efforts to local and national levels. address environmental and infrastructure needs, and continue to safeguard the finite and critical resource of water by focusing on waste management, afforestation, and community engagement. Grassroots initiatives designed to bring awareness to water conservation and waste management best practices, such as informational billboards detailing the benefits of recycling, encouraged behavior modifications and drove change in ways community members understood and could adopt. An essay writing contest through the University of Hawassa encouraged young people to consider the role they play in future preservation of this critical resource. Sponsorship of community events such as the Great Ethiopian Run Half Marathon demonstrated shared investment in the area and served as a reminder of the economic benefits the lake poses to the region. The creation of a governance structure for the initiative and leadership opportunities through task forces and advisory groups enables the continuation of stakeholder participation. 29 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 1 M + / P R O V I D E A C C E S S T O W AT E R E D U C AT E T H E F U T U R E Improving access to For Soumya, Christel House, supported her childhood needs and enhanced the quality and potential of her education and enhancing adult life: quality of life in the “Going to Christel House has greatly impacted my life. Before Christel House, I was a girl who was denied communities where we basic necessities. But, Christel House has taken care work and live of all my needs with services like breakfast and lunch, as well as medical care and counselling. Not only has Christel House provided me with a positive school environment, but it has also ensured that there is peace The PVH Foundation supports the work of Christel and harmony in my home. Christel House has given me House, a nonprofit organization in India helping an opportunity to reach my goals. It has given impoverished children become self-sufficient members me happiness.” of society. Since 2001, Christel House has provided K-12 education, character development, healthcare and nutrition, family assistance, career guidance, and job placement for youth and families in need using a holistic approach to serve its more than 860 students. “ My journey at Christel House has Students also receive comprehensive health services, completely T R A N S F O R M E D M Y L I F E . including mental health services. In addition, children I never thought I would get a wonderful are provided with nutritious meals and beverages opportunity like this. Here, I have been throughout their day. Corporate sponsorships, such as able to recognize and work on many our charitable investment and associate volunteerism efforts, enable Christel House to provide all services to of my talents. All of my teachers have the students at no cost. E N C O U R AG E D A N D M O T I VAT E D me to do well in academics and have also The College & Careers program at Christel House screens students for specific skills and assists them in helped me explore and recognize my hidden exploring university and vocational training options talents. Today, I am the only girl who based on their academic interests and capabilities. has been educated in my family and this All graduates receive scholarships to pursue their is because of Christel House.” university education ambitions and are later supported – Soumya, senior at Christel House throughout the job placement process. Soumya, a Christel House student, strives to go to college, dreams of someday becoming an Indian Administrative Service Officer, the premier civil service arm in India, and credits Christel House for instilling this belief in herself. 30 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 1 M + / E D U C AT E T H E F U T U R E ADDITIONAL HIGHLIGHTS EMPOWER D E V E L O P TA L E N T P R O V I D E AC C E S S E D U C AT E WOMEN T O WAT E R THE FUTURE • PVH Cares hosted a • PVH University • The CR team engaged • The PVH Foundation Prom event for young launched a new associates with the supported the Pajama women associated with Supply Academy. “PVH2O” competition Program which works to Big Brothers Big Sisters to celebrate their water provide pajamas and books and NYC Department • The Learning & conservation techniques to children in need, of Homelessness; Development team by posting on our encouraging a nurturing associates donated introduced an upgraded internal news app; bedtime routine. the dresses, shoes and technology platform. the six winners travelled accessories, and then The platform aggregates to India with the CR helped the young content created by PVH, team and PVH women “shop” for as well as by external leadership to observe our their proms. sites. Powered by EdCast WWF water stewardship artificial intelligence, work firsthand. associates can tailor what content is fed to • The CEO Water Mandate them based on their (“CEOWM”) convened specific learning plans. the Apparel Working Group where PVH, together with other CEOWM apparel brands, planned for a project in the Cauvery River basin complementary to the work of WWF. 31 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 1M+ / ADDITIONAL HIGHLIGHTS S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y AC C O U N T I N G S TA N DA R D S B OA R D (S A S B) The Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) is an independent, private sector standards-setting organization dedicated to enhancing the efficiency of capital markets by fostering high-quality disclosure of material sustainability information that meets investor needs. This table references the Standard for the Apparel, Accessories & Footwear industry as defined by SASB’s Sustainable Industry Classification System (SICS). TOPIC ACCOUNTING METRIC CATEGORY UNIT OF CODE DATA REFERENCES MEASURE Raw Materials Description of environmental and Discussion n/a CG-AA-440a.1 2018 CR Report, pg 23 Sourcing social risks associated with sourcing and Analysis 2017 CR Report, pgs 34-45 priority raw materials PVH Materiality Assessment Percentage of raw materials thirdQuantitative Percentage CG-AA-440a.2 In 2017 we sourced 17% of our cotton (Conventional, party certified to an environmental organic, recycled) as Better Cotton. In 2018, we are and/or social sustainability standard, estimating that we sourced 33% of our cotton as by standard Better Cotton. This was calculated using the BCCU’s sourced in 2018 and assuming a 3% growth rate in PVH total cotton consumption year over year. We also require that down used in our products be certified by the Textile Exchange’s Responsible Down Standard (RDS) to ensure it has been sourced responsibly. Management Discussion of processes to Discussion n/a CG-AA-250a.1 2018 GRI Index pg 46 of Chemicals maintain compliance with restricted and Analysis 2017 CR Report pgs 28-29 in Products substances regulations 2017 GRI Index pg 7 Discussion of processes to assess Discussion CG-AA-250a.2 2018 GRI Index pg 46 and manage risks and/or hazards and Analysis n/a 2017 CR Report pgs 28-29 associated with chemicals in products 2017 GRI Index pg 7 Environmental Percentage of (1) Tier 1 supplier Quantitative Percentage CG-AA-430a.1 We state in our Supplier Guidelines that if a factory PVH CR Supply Impacts in the facilities and (2) supplier facilities discharges wastes or pollutants (including wastewater, Chain Guidelines Supply Chain beyond Tier 1 in compliance with air emissions, solid waste, hazardous wastes, etc.) wastewater discharge permits in a manner that poses an immediate threat or and/or contractual agreements irreversible damage to the workers, environment and local communities, PVH has the right to immediately and permanently discontinue business with that supplier. Percentage of (1) Tier 1 supplier Quantitative Percentage CG-AA-430a.2 67% of our Tier 1 and beyond Tier 1 facilities facilities and (2) supplier facilities completed a Higg Self-Assessment in 2018. beyond Tier 1 that have completed the Sustainable Apparel Coalition’s This data includes facilities directly sourced by PVH. Higg Facility Environmental Module (Higg FEM) assessment or an equivalent environmental data assessment 32 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y A C C O U N T I N G S TA N D A R D S B O A R D ( S A S B ) TOPIC ACCOUNTING METRIC CATEGORY UNIT OF CODE DATA REFERENCES MEASURE Labor Conditions Percentage of (1) Tier 1 supplier Quantitative Percentage CG-AA-430b.1 Total Factories Assessed 1,771 in the Supply facilities and (2) supplier facilities Chain beyond Tier 1 that have been Percentage of Tier 1 Supplier Facilities audited to a labor code of conduct, & Beyond Tier 1 Supplier Facilities Assessed 74% (3) percentage of total audits conducted by a third-party auditor Factories Assessed by 3rd Party 78% Note: 3rd Party Assessor means an external party that is not a PVH auditor. Priority non-conformance rate and Quantitative Rate CG-AA-430b.2 Factory ratings inform compliance performance, associated corrective action rate cadence for remediation and subsequent for suppliers’ labor code of assessments, and production decisions for PVH conduct audits Business Divisions. “Gold” rating indicates that the supplier is an industry leader with a formal CR program and systems in place to self-manage environmental and social performance. “Green” and “Yellow” ratings indicate that the supplier exceeds or meets Code of Conduct standards. “Orange–1st” and “Orange-2nd” ratings mean that the supplier has critical issues. While these suppliers are authorized for production, PVH exercises vigilance and actively intervenes to remediate issues and continue business relationships. “Gray” ratings mean that the supplier is authorized for production, falls under a de minimis or other exemption category and may undergo a self-assessment, short-form assessment or rating equivalency. “Red” and “White” ratings mean that the supplier is not authorized for production and PVH will make a responsible exit, if applicable. CR Color Rating Global Gold 2% Green 14% Yellow 55% Orange-1st 5% Orange-2nd 1% Red 1% White 1% Gray 21% Note: This includes factories that are part of the Better Work program and undergo a Better Work assessment. Red and white factories are not authorized for production. Description of the greatest (1) labor Discussion n/a CG-AA-430b.3 PVH Materiality Assessment and (2) environmental, health, and and Analysis safety risks in the supply chain 33 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y A C C O U N T I N G S TA N D A R D S B O A R D ( S A S B ) PERFORMANCE SUMMARY Our 2018 performance summary can be found in the tables below. In preparing this report, we have been guided by the GRI Standards framework. It underwent a structured review process by our Accounting and Legal teams, as well as by relevant partners within our business divisions. SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENTS INCLUSION AND DIVERSITY Suppliers Assessed 1,771 Diversity Analysis, U.S. Associates # % Assessments Conducted 2,153 Non-White Female 5,872 37.3 Operations audited, by region White Female 4,249 27.0 East & Southeast Asia (ESA) 946 Non-White Male 3,379 21.5 Americas 410 White Male 2,225 14.1 South Asia (SA) 226 Not Declared White 4 0.0 Europe, Middle East & Africa (EMEA) 189 Not Declared Non-White 6 0.1 Total 15,737 CR Color Rating Global Gold 2% Diversity Represented by Level, U.S. Associates Green 14% Yellow 55% Senior Vice President & Above Orange-1st 5% Non-White Female 9 6 Orange-2nd 1% White Female 44 31 Red 1% Non-White Male 9 6 White 1% White Male 81 57 Gray 21% Not Declared White 0 Not Declared Non-White 0 Note: This includes factories that are part of the Better Work program and Total 143 undergo a Better Work assessment. Red and white factories are not authorized for production. Vice President & Director Non-White Female 132 16 White Female 367 46 CHARITABLE GIVING (USD AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS) 1 Non-White Male 82 10 White Male 224 28 Not Declared White 0 The PVH Foundation $ 5,962 Not Declared Non-White 0 Associate Pledges 157 Total 805 Fundraising 726 Retail Customer Contributions 785 Manager PVH Product Contributions 14,192 Non-White Female 1,106 30 White Female 1,359 37 Total $ 21,822 Non-White Male 603 17 White Male 577 16 Not Declared White 2 0 Not Declared Non-White 0 WATER Total 3,649 Owned & Operated Individual Contributor Non-White Female 4,623 41 Total Water Withdrawn from Municipal Water Suppliers White Female 2,479 22 and Other Water Utilities (Cubic meters) 181,235 Non-White Male 2,685 24 White Male 1,343 12 Supply Chain Not Declared White 2 0.0 Not Declared Non-White 8 0.1 Water Use by Facility Type (Cubic meters) Tier 1 37,417,250 Beyond Tier 1 133,874,602 Total 171,291,852 Supply Chain Water Withdrawal by Source and Region (Cubic meters) Ground Municipal Produced/ Rain Sea Surface Wastewater Grand Total Water Water Process Water Water Water from other Water organizations Americas 2,015,675 124,797 203,439 7,860 0 0 86,886 2,438,657 EMEA 11,223,464 2,979,953 1,048,506 5,324 0 334,985 0 15,592,232 ESA 3,413,919 55,419,706 21,514,499 11,318 0 25,505,424 5,639,600 111,504,466 SA 7,511,190 17,467,934 15,268,600 8,361 0 1,500,413 0 41,756,498 Grand Total 24,164,248 75,992,389 38,035,044 32,863 0 27,340,822 5,726,486 171,291,852 Note: Only facilities with verified data are included in this analysis. This data is for the facilities’ total water usage for the 2017 year. 1 This chart excludes Warnaco product contributions. 34 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 PERFORMANCE SUMMARY EMISSIONS 2 2015 2016 2017 2018 Scope 1 (metric tons of CO2e) 41,293 37,323 32,689 35,039 Scope2 (metric tons of CO2e) 106,055 118,707 119,758 93,839 Total GHG Emissions 147,348 156,030 152,448 128,878 GHG Emissions by Facility Type Retail 106,050 117,068 111,052 92,807 Warehouse3 19,867 22,457 22,659 21,046 Office 4 19,206 13,684 15,363 12,203 Vehicles 5 2,225 2,821 3,374 2,822 GHG Emissions by Region North America 99,690 93,017 65,903 Europe 36,395 39,461 41,082 Eastern Asia 16,883 17,978 19,551 Other 3,062 1,992 2,342 MATERIALS 6 WASTE Top 5 Materials by Volume (MT) Total Weight of Waste by Disposal Method (MT) Cotton (Conventional/organic/recycled) 113,237 Recycling 12,189 Polyester 16,692 Composting 0 Nylon 9,013 Recovery/Reuse 37 Silicone 4,730 Landfill 531 Elastane, Spandex, Lycra 3,432 E-Waste/Universal Waste 25 Incineration 138 Top Sustainable Materials by Volume (MT) Waste to Energy/Biogas 48 Sustainable Cotton 17,435 Total 12,968 Sustainable Polyester 1,277 Sustainable Cellulosics 202 Sustainable Nylon 92 ENERGY/ELECTRICITY Percentage of Raw Materials Third-Party Certified Renewable Energy Use, by region to a Sustainable Standard North America 53,431,000 kWh Europe 7,304,489 kWh In 2017 we sourced 17% of our cotton (Conventional, organic, recycled) Total 60,735,489 kWh as Better Cotton. In 2018, we are estimating that we sourced 33% of our cotton as Better Cotton. This was calculated using the BCCU’s sourced in Energy Consumption 2018 and assuming a 3% growth rate in PVH total cotton consumption Total Energy Consumption 7 1,601,384 GJ year over year. Total Fuel Consumption 8 597,419 GJ PVH does not allow down and/or feathers from birds that have been live Total Cooling Consumption 558,939 GJ plucked or force fed. We also require that down used in our products be certified by the Textile Exchange’s Responsible Down Standard (RDS) to Electricity Use by Facility Type (non renewable) ensure it has been sourced responsibly. Retail 196,704,058 kWh Warehouses 38,084,077 kWh Office 36,097,476 kWh 2 We are restating our 2015 global baseline because we are now using the market-based approach instead of the location-based approach to calculate our footprint. The market-based Vehicles 17,087 kWh approach allows us to account for renewable energy in our footprint, whereas the locationTotal 270,902,698 kWh based method did not. This year we purchased renewable energy credits (RECs) for the first time, leading to the decrease in our footprint between 2017 and 2018. 3 Warehouses include emissions from distribution centers and from PVH Neckwear Factory. PACKAGING 9 4 Offices include emissions from showrooms. Recyclable 74% 5 Includes fugitive emissions from vehicle refrigerants. Non-Recyclable 26% 6 The above represents data from 2017. 7 WRI’s Corporate GHG Accounting Protocol. Data covers electricity purchased by offices, 9 The data collection and baseline process improved greatly from 2016 to 2017, but there are showrooms, warehouses, distribution centers, the PVH Neckwear Factory, Hawassa Factory and still gaps that need to be addressed for more accurate information. retail facilities worldwide. Offices include emissions from showrooms. Warehouses include emissions from distribution centers and includes fugitive emissions from vehicle refrigerants. The content provided is vendor sourced, and we are continuously working to improve the 8 Almost all natural gas and some propane for heating, and a mixture of gasoline, diesel oil, quality of the data. This data is dependent on what each supplier can provide and there can and compressed natural gas for vehicles. be substantial variances year to year. As our teams work together, we are learning every year how to make the collection process more efficient and accurate. This data does not include Tommy Hilfiger. 35 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 PERFORMANCE SUMMARY GRI CONTENT INDEX 2018 GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2018 DISCLOSURE NUMBER AND TITLE 2018 RESPONSE Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of the organization PVH Corp. (“PVH”) 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services PVH is one of the most admired fashion and lifestyle companies in the world. PVH powers brands that drive fashion forward – for good. The iconic portfolio includes TOMMY HILFIGER, CALVIN KLEIN, Van Heusen, IZOD, ARROW, Speedo*, Warner’s, Olga and Geoffrey Beene brands, as well as the digital-centric True & Co. intimates brand. PVH markets a variety of goods under these and other nationally and internationally known owned and licensed brands. PVH has over 38,000 associates operating in over 40 countries and nearly $9.7 billion in annual revenues. *The Speedo brand is licensed for North America and the Caribbean in perpetuity from Speedo International Limited. 102-3 Location of headquarters 200 Madison Avenue, New York, NY 10016 102-4 Number of countries where the 2018 Form 10-K pgs 11, 28 organization operates 102-5 Ownership and legal form PVH is a publicly traded company on the New York Stock Exchange 102-6 Markets served 2018 Form 10-K pgs 1-16 102-7 Scale of the organization 2018 Form 10-K pgs 1-16 102-8 Information on employees Female, Full time: 11,623 and other workers Female, Part time: 12,450 Female, Grand total: 24,073 Male, Full time: 6,379 Male, Part time: 5,311 Male, Grand total: 11,690 Gender undeclared, Full time: 4 Gender undeclared, Part time: 15 Gender undeclared, Grand total: 19 All, Full time: 18,006 All, Part time: 17,776 All, Grand total: 35,782 Note: As of December 31, 2018. This includes regular employees only, excluding seasonal, interns and temporary staff. 102-9 Supply chain Global Supply Chain Factory List Disclosure 102-10 Significant changes to the organization No Significant changes and its supply chain 102-11 Recautionary Principle or approach We consider the precautionary principle as a key component of the organization’s management of risks related to people, environment, and communities. Notably, the precautionary principle was an important guiding principle in the development of PVH’s Chemical Management Commitment and Action Plan. 36 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 GRI / GENERAL DISCLOSURES DISCLOSURE NUMBER AND TITLE 2018 RESPONSE Organizational Profile (continued) 102-12 External initiatives General CR/Sustainability – UN Global Compact, Business for Social Responsibility (BSR), Women’s Empowerment Principles, Sustainable Apparel Coalition (SAC), American Apparel & Footwear Association (AAFA) Human Rights & Safe Workplaces – Fair Labor Association (FLA), Better Work, SAC, UN Guiding Principles on Human Rights, Responsible Labor Initiative, Social and Labor Convergence Project (SLCP), Accord on Fire and Building Safety in Bangladesh (“The Accord”), Life and Building Safety (LaBS), ACT, Ronald McDonald House, Safe Horizon, Save the Children, World Vision Inclusion & Diversity – Women’s Empowerment Principles, NEST, CEO Action to Promote Inclusion & Diversity, UN Free and Equal Campaign, CFDA Environmental Sustainability – Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals (ZDHC) Programme, AFIRM Group, SAC, CEO Water Mandate, WWF International, UN Global Compact, Apparel Impact Institute, Sustainable Packaging Coalition, How2Recycle program, Better Cotton Initiative (BCI), Textile Exchange, Business for Social Responsibility, Business Renewables Center (BRC), UN Fashion Charter for Global Climate Action, RE100, REBA, Sciencebased Targets Initiative (SBTi), Fabscrap, Global Fashion Agenda, Fashion for Good, Ellen MacArthur Foundation, Plug and Play 102-13 Membership of associations Leadership Positions: • Manny Chirico, CEO is on the Board of Dick’s Sporting Goods, Board of Trustees for Monte fiore Medical Center, Board of Trustees for Save the Children • Melanie Steiner, Chief Risk Officer is on Advisory Board for Change Fashion Challenge at New York Academy of Sciences and is a Board Member for Fashion for Good • Marissa Pagnani McGowan, Senior Vice President of Corporate Responsibility sits on the Steering Committee of the Global Fashion Agenda, and previously sat on the Steering Committee of Bangladesh Accord PVH Representation: • Sustainable Apparel Coalition: Steering Teams for Brand Module 3.0 and Facility Social Labor Module, part of other working groups and task teams, including transparency working group and European Policy working group • SLCP: Signatory member, part of multiple working groups • Textile Exchange: Working groups for Responsible Down Standard, Responsible Wool Standard and Responsible Leather Stakeholder group • Apparel Impact Institute: Founding brand • BSR: Responsible Luxury Initiative (ReLI) working group • AFIRM: 4 committees: Training, RSL, Public Policy & Compliance and we lead the packaging RSL committees • ZDHC: Wastewater, Audit protocol and MRSL working groups • AAFA: Environmental Committee • CEO Water Mandate: Apparel Industry working initiative • Better Work: PVH CR Senior Director sits on the Advisory Committee for Better Work and we have a special pilot with Better Work Academy, a collaboration between the ILO and the IFC • Responsible Labor Initiative: PVH CR Manager is on Steering Committee • ACT: Communications Working Group & Accountability and Transparency Working Group Strategy 102-14 A statement from the most senior decision-maker See our CEO’s letter in the 2018 CR Report 102-15 Provide a description of key impacts, risks, PVH Materiality Assessment and opportunities Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, Our Core Values and norms of behavior 37 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 GRI / GENERAL DISCLOSURES DISCLOSURE NUMBER AND TITLE 2018 RESPONSE Ethics and Integrity (continued) 102-17 Mechanisms for advice Associates and workers can report any suspected policy violations, inappropriate behavior, and concerns about ethics and unethical practices via Tell PVH, our global reporting hotline. Since 2017, our global reporting hotline, Tell PVH, is open to all workers in our supply chain, in addition to PVH associates. It acts as a channel for PVH to capture and address concerns or complaints raised by the people who work for us directly and indirectly in our supply chain. Workers and associates, subject to certain legal limitations, can report any suspected policy violations, inappropriate behavior and unethical practices via the hotline. In the majority of cases, they can make reports anonymously, either online or by telephone, in one of 15 languages. We provide regular updates to the associate or worker concerned, who can also track the progress of the complaint online. When we receive a worker grievance, either from the worker directly or via a union or NGO, CR associates document the issue and escalate it immediately to our CR leadership via a weekly reporting and escalation process that is documented through a standard operating procedure, from factory notification through executive review. The corporate and regional CR teams coordinate to address the issue by engaging the worker, factory managers, the relevant PVH sourcing team, and potentially third parties. The CR team verifies the validity of the claim, arranges appropriate investigations and works with relevant parties to address any gaps. All parties are kept informed of developments. The CR team looks for trends or similarities to other findings in comparable factories, and incorporates such learnings in remediation activities. Governance 102-18 Governance structure Corporate Governance Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Associates, investors, suppliers, workers in our supply chain, non-governmental organizations (“NGOs”), industry associations and multi-stakeholder initiatives, labor unions, governments, communities, wholesale accounts and consumers. PVH Materiality Assessment & Stakeholder Engagement 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 2018 Form 10-K pg 16 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders PVH Materiality Assessment & Stakeholder Engagement 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement PVH Materiality Assessment & Stakeholder Engagement 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised PVH Materiality Assessment & Stakeholder Engagement Reporting Practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated Notes to consolidated financial statements 2018 Annual Report financial statements 102-46 Defining report content PVH Materiality Assessment & Stakeholder Engagement and topic Boundaries 102-47 List of material topics PVH Materiality Assessment & Stakeholder Engagement 102-48 Restatements of information No restatements have been made 102-49 Changes in reporting There are no changes from the previous reporting years 102-50 Reporting period Calendar year 2018 102-51 Date of most recent previous report 2019 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 102-53 Provide the contact point for questions cr@pvh.com regarding the report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option with the GRI Standards 38 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 GRI / GENERAL DISCLOSURES DISCLOSURE NUMBER AND TITLE 2018 RESPONSE Reporting Practice (continued) 102-55 GRI content index responsibility.pvh.com 102-56 External assurance This report has not received external verification. We are continuing to build our internal processes to allow for consistent data collection and enhancement of internal verification. Economic Performance 103-1 Economic Performance 2018 Annual Report 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 2018 Annual Report 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and 2018 Annual Report, CR Section opportunities due to climate change 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other 2018 Annual Report retirement plans 201-4 Financial assistance received from government No financial support was needed from the US Government in 2018 Anti-Corruption 103 Management Approach We understand the importance of implementing strong policies and procedures around (parts 1, 2 bribery and anticorruption. We have systems in place to train associates on ways to identify and 3) and report potential cases of bribery and/or corruption. Legal and Compliance personnel also conduct on-going risk assessments. We strive to ensure that all of our policies and procedures reflect our commitment to upholding the highest moral, ethical and legal standards in everything we do. In order to help our associates understand our policies and procedures, we require mandatory in-person and online compliance training, in local language. To measure effectiveness, internal and external auditors conduct periodic reviews of our anti-corruption program at the global, regional, country and business unit levels. Our policy development and distribution, training and assessments are reported to our key stakeholders. We engage senior management, Legal, Audit, HR, Corporate Responsibility and key business leaders in every geography in which we do business to assist with the dissemination and socialization of our program, policies and procedures. 205-1 (Anti-corruption) Operations assessed for risks We have identified our supply chain as the main risk area of our operations. All new suppliers related to corruption are required to go through our social assessment program. 205-2 (Anti-corruption) Communication and training 100% – We require that all PVH associates, as well as PVH Board members, participate in about anti-corruption policies and procedures PVH Complies, our compliance training program consisting of online courses on key topics including our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, anti-bribery and anti-corruption policies and legislation, insider trading and conflicts of interest. For more information see our Code of Conduct 205-3 (Anti-corruption) Confirmed incidents Omission reason: Information unavailable of corruption and actions taken PVH does not collect data of sufficient quality to enable reporting 39 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 GRI / GENERAL DISCLOSURES IDENTIFIED MATERIALS ASPECTS & BOUNDARIES: 2018 GRI STANDARDS DISCLOSURE NUMBER AND TITLE 2018 RESPONSE Materials 103 Management Approach Our sustainable materials strategy focuses on sourcing with more environmental and social (parts 1, 2 considerations in respect of all materials, including natural, synthetic and animal-based. and 3) We are taking action in relation to each of these three categories based on volume, risks and new market opportunities and work with each business division to determine which initiatives make the most sense for its business priorities. With the release of our 2018 CR Report, we are launching our new target around sustainable materials. Our target is 100% of our cotton and polyester will be sustainably sourced by 2025, and 2030 respectively. We conducted a global materials mapping exercise to inform our sustainable materials strategy. Considering the volumes of various raw material types, as well as business risks and opportunities, we identified priority areas of focus within natural, synthetic and animalbased raw material categories. To implement this strategy, we are introducing new resources, tools and trainings to our raw materials and design teams to enable them to incorporate sustainability considerations into their daily activities. Sourcing cotton more sustainably for the environment and farming communities is a particular global focus for us. Cotton represents nearly 70% of our raw material use, so we have a great need and opportunity to invest in sourcing more sustainable cotton. We are taking a portfolio approach to sustainable cotton by procuring and supporting the market growth for a variety of more sustainable cotton sources. As our program continues to evolve, we are continuously addressing the need to move further into our materials supply chain due to the high level of impact at the growing/milling stage. A core component of our global sustainable cotton program is sourcing Better Cotton, which is produced by farmers in a way that is measurably better for the environment and farming communities. Our CR Director at Tommy Hilfiger sits on the Innovation Board at BCI. In terms of synthetic fibers, several of our divisions are taking a lead on initiating the procurement of recycled or upcycled fibers with a view to scale these efforts, where appropriate. We are also continuously identifying opportunities for all our divisions to feature products made with recycled polyester, with the aim of eventually sourcing recycled polyester whenever possible. Responsible sourcing of animal-based materials has become an increasingly important issue to our company and stakeholders. Although these materials represent a very small portion of our global material footprint, we rolled out a global animal welfare policy in 2017. The policy addresses animal-based materials across seven categories, including wool, leather and down. We refer to the “Five Freedoms” concept, promoted by the World Organization for Animal Health (OIE), as the guiding principles for our animal welfare policies. PVH has discontinued the use of angora in our products. Additionally, animal fur, as defined by Fur Free Retailer, is prohibited and all products containing synthetic fur must be labeled appropriately. PVH believes the sheep and goats that produce wool for our products should be treated responsibly and raised on farms that preserve land health. We became members of the Textile Exchange (TE) and we intend to use their Responsible Wool Standard (RWS) wool in our products moving forward in order to support our commitment to this goal. We also have made the decision to remove all mohair products by 2020 due to concerns about its production. In addition, we will explore other standards introduced in the market. PVH does not allow down and/or feathers from birds that have been live plucked or force fed. We also require that down used in our products be certified by the Textile Exchange’s Responsible Down Standard (RDS) to ensure it has been sourced responsibly. PVH is committed to sourcing exotic skins in a responsible manner. PVH does not source exotic skins from any endangered or threatened species, as defined by the International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources (IUCN) in its red list. We strive to improve traceability and collaborate on responsible sourcing practices for exotic skins. All leather must be a bi-product of the meat industry. Additionally, PVH is actively exploring commercially viable substitutes to animalbased materials that meet the needs of our brands and customers. These changes will be reflected in products that will be in stores and e-commerce sites from 2019 and onwards. 40 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 G R I / I D E N T I F I E D M AT E R I A L S A S P E C T S & B O U N D A R I E S DISCLOSURE NUMBER AND TITLE 2018 RESPONSE Materials (continued) 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Top 5 Materials by Volume: (MT) Total Cotton (Conventional/organic/recycled) 113,237 Polyester 16,692 Nylon 9,013 Silicone 4,730 Elastane, Spandex, Lycra 3,432 Top Sustainable Materials by Volume: (MT) Sustainable Cotton 17,435 Sustainable Polyester 1,277 Sustainable Cellulosics 202 Sustainable Nylon 92 Note: The above represents data from 2017. 301-2 Recycled input materials used Recycled content represents 0.8% of our Material Map. PVH TUG Recycled Plastic Hanger Pilot: • Piloting 35,000 70% Ocean Bound Plastic Hangers • Pilot will prevent ~500 lbs. of ocean bound plastic making its way into our shores Note: The above represents data from 2017. 301-3 Reclaimed products and their Omission Reason: Not applicable packaging materials PVH does not currently have initiatives around reclaimed products that we are prepared to disclose. 41 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 G R I / I D E N T I F I E D M AT E R I A L S A S P E C T S & B O U N D A R I E S DISCLOSURE NUMBER AND TITLE 2018 RESPONSE Water (GRI Standards 2016) 103 Management Approach Water is used at every stage of our product lifecycles – from growing raw materials (such as (parts 1, 2 cotton) to dyeing, tanning, printing and finishing garments, to the way consumers launder and 3) clothes. It is vital that we take steps to safeguard water resources in our sourcing countries, especially as the global population expands, increasing pressure on the world’s available fresh water supplies. Access to safe water is a human right, and water and sanitation are essential for communities to thrive. The United Nation’s SDG 6 sets a target for achieving safe, sustainably managed water for all by 2030. In support of this, we developed a global water strategy to safeguard and preserve water resources in the communities where we manufacture. We aim to ensure continuity and quality of water supply for community members and our business. We have used a number of different resources, insights and tools to develop a comprehensive global water strategy. The strategy is informed by our UN CEO Water Mandate commitment, a global water risk analysis conducted by WWF and insights into the lifecycle impacts of our products. Additionally, we have been leveraging the Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals (“ZDHC”) Programme’s work, notably its new Manufacturing Restricted Substances List (“MRSL”) and Wastewater Guidelines. We have also taken steps to gain greater insight into our Level 1 and 2 suppliers’ water use, particularly through the SAC’s Higg Index Facilities Environmental Module (“FEM”). Our water strategy focuses on reducing water use in our own facilities, across our supply chain, at the product level (by introducing technologies such as waterless dyeing) and within our sourcing communities. PVH initiated a water risk assessment that accounted for approximately 90% of all Level 1 suppliers and strategic Level 2 suppliers. PVH collected the location of supplier uploaded onto the WWF-DEG Water Risk Filter. Using the criteria provided by the Water Risk Filter, determinations were made on each facility’s water risk based on calculations of physical, regulatory and reputational risk. The WWF Water Risk Filter Tool gave us initial insights as to the regions where our suppliers are located and the associated basin risks. This assessment provided the foundation of our water strategy that aims to preserve and safeguard water resources to ensure the continuity and quality of water supply for our operations and the communities where our goods are produced. In an effort to reduce water use and contribute to water conservation, PVH has created a robust program that focuses on tracking and reducing use at our own facilities (stores, offices, warehouses, distribution centers, neckwear factory and joint venture shirt factory), as well as within our supply chain, driven largely through our roll out of the SAC Higg FEM and membership in the SAC Apparel Impact Institute. We are also exploring various product and process innovations that will lead to less water use, such as Speedo’s work with Econyl, and Tommy Hilfiger’s Low Impact Denim program. Finally, we took a major step in 2017 to drive important water stewardship work through new partnerships with WWF and GIZ’s International Water Stewardship Programme. The partnership will serve as the foundation of our water stewardship strategy and focus on four key areas: 1. Examining and improving water use in our supply chain 2. Evolving our sustainable materials strategy 3. Embarking on water stewardship projects 4. Working to implement SDG 6 Each of our businesses will contribute to WWF’s stewardship work by sponsoring a critical water basin in one of our strategic sourcing destinations. Tommy Hilfiger will continue to support work in the Mekong River in Vietnam and the Taihu River in China. Calvin Klein will support the first of its kind of work in the region of the Cauvery River in India. Additionally, our Heritage Brands business will support our work in Preserving Lake Hawassa in Ethiopia, where we are already reducing water use through the Zero Liquid Discharge (ZLD) plant at the Hawassa Industrial Park which recycles more than 90% of the water used in the park. Together, PVH and WWF will identify water risks and engage in collective efforts to advance water conservation activities for local communities in other strategic sourcing locations across the globe. We aim to be inclusive with our partnerships in the locations where we work and live. With the involvement of WWF, we are co-initiating a multi-stakeholder collaboration with GIZ’s International Water Stewardship Programme and are identifying opportunities through the UN CEO Water Mandate to work collectively with apparel companies in additional strategic sourcing communities. PVH has also taken measures to reduce the water impact of products by sourcing more sustainable raw materials and by establishing a program to reduce the water consumption in the denim finishing process. Our Tommy Hilfiger business conducted a pilot project to explore different finishing techniques for its denim products, helping suppliers to adopt practices that significantly reduce water and energy consumption and require less chemical use per garment. Participating suppliers used the Environmental Impact Measuring software, a tool from Jeanologia that assesses the environmental impact of various garment finishing processes. The methodology encourages suppliers to use renewable energy, recycled water, and more sustainable technologies (e.g., laser and ozone, which are water and chemical free). 42 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 G R I / I D E N T I F I E D M AT E R I A L S A S P E C T S & B O U N D A R I E S DISCLOSURE NUMBER AND TITLE 2018 RESPONSE Water (GRI Standards 2016) (continued) 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Owned & Operated Facilities All water from municipal water supplies/other water utilities in 2018: 181,235 cubic meters. Includes actual water consumption from 212 PVH facilities globally in US, Canada, Brazil, Asia (Bangladesh, China, Hong Kong, South Korea, Japan, Taiwan, Singapore, Vietnam, India, Indonesia, Sri Lanka, Thailand), Europe (Ireland, Russia, Netherlands, Italy, United Kingdom, Germany, Turkey, Poland, Belgium, Denmark, France, Austria, Switzerland, Czech Republic) and Africa (Ethiopia, Egypt, and Kenya). Water consumption for remaining facilities estimated using average water use per Full Time Employee (FTE), by building type. Supply Chain a. Total volume of water withdrawn: 133,256,808 cubic meters i. Surface water, including water from wetlands, rivers, lakes, and oceans: 27,340,822 cubic meters ii. Ground water: 24,164,248 cubic meters iii. Rainwater collected directly and stored by the organization: 32,863 cubic meters iv. Waste water from another organization: 5,726,486 cubic meters v. Municipal water supplies or other public or private water utilities: 75,992,389 cubic meters b. CDP Water Reporting Guidance Water withdrawal quantities per source were measured by metering, invoice or estimation. All data points were verified during onsite Higg verification. Only facilities with verified data are included in this analysis. This data is for the facilities’ total water usage for the 2017 year. 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by Omission reason: Information unavailable withdrawal of water PVH does not collect data of sufficient quality to enable reporting 303-3 Water recycled and reused a. Total volume of water recycled and reused by the organization: 38,035,044 cubic meters b. Total volume of water recycled and reused as a percentage of the total water withdrawal as specified in Disclosure 303-1: 28.54 % c. From How to Higg, the definition of Produced/process water: Water which, during extraction or processing, comes into direct contact with or results from the production or use of any raw material (e.g. crude oil or a by-product from sugar cane crushing), intermediate product, finished product, by-product, or waste product. Note this also includes reused/recycled water. In this analysis, it is assumed that produced/process water is fully from recycled or reused water. All data points were verified during onsite Higg verification. Only facilities with verified data are included in this analysis. This data is for the facilities’ total water usage for the 2017 year. 43 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 G R I / I D E N T I F I E D M AT E R I A L S A S P E C T S & B O U N D A R I E S DISCLOSURE NUMBER AND TITLE 2018 RESPONSE Emissions 103 Management Approach Climate change is one of the greatest challenges facing us today. At PVH, we are committed (parts 1, 2 to playing our part in reducing GHG emissions and combating climate change, in line with and 3) the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change Paris Agreement. We are taking steps to lower our GHG footprint by cutting energy consumption, increasing energy efficiency and using more renewable energy at our facilities and across our supply chain. Our commitment extends beyond measuring and reducing energy consumed in our own operations (Scope 1) and purchased electricity (Scope 2) emissions. We are also committed to measuring and reducing our indirect emissions (Scope 3), including emissions generated through third-party logistics and distribution of goods, business travel, and those arising through purchased goods and services, including impacts from our supply chain and procurement. We measure our GHG reduction progress against our global 2015 owned & operated baseline, which reflects data provided by approximately 2,300 PVH facilities (including offices, stores and warehouses) in 40 countries. We worked toward our global Scope 3 footprint in 2018 and are in the process of setting a science-based target, which will include a scope 3 reduction target. We also track reductions against our global GHG footprint through our commitment to the UN Fashion Charter Industry for Climate Action – to reduce emissions across Scope 1, 2 & 3 by 30% by 2030. Associates from our facilities around the world, including facility managers, office administrators, IT teams and travel coordinators, play a critical role in helping to monitor, report and analyze energy use. These associates also champion local GHG reduction efforts. Through our multi-year energy reduction strategy, we aim to generate both environmental and financial savings, focusing initially in North America and Europe, and prioritizing energy reduction and efficiency in our retail stores. Our GHG reduction initiatives center on reducing consumption (e.g., by controlling temperature and lighting at all our stores), improving energy efficiency (e.g., by switching to LED lighting and updating air conditioning), and sourcing more renewable energy. We also plan to implement a centralized energy management system, starting with North America Retail, to measure and manage our building energy use. For more data and information on our energy/electricity use please see our CR Report Performance Summary. 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions a. 35,039 metric tons of CO2e b. CO2, CH4, N2O, HFC 134a, R-404A, R-410A, HCFC-22 c. n/a d. i. & ii. 2015. 41,293 metric tons of CO2e. 2015 was the first year that we have conducted a global GHG footprint. Scope 1 emissions decreased between 2015 and 2017 due to: • Decreased consumption of natural gas • Increased primary data availability (improved tracking of natural gas for North America Retail and replaced some modelled figures). From 2017 to 2018, Scope 1 emissions increased, despite continuing trends of improved primary data (2% decrease of modelled data). This is due to two factors • First, about 6% more facilities were added which consume natural gas. • Second, the overall square footage of PVH facilities increased by 24%, leading to higher modelled values for the majority of sites. iii. We restated our 2015 baseline using the market-based approach so that we can account for renewable energy purchases and generation e. GWP Source: IPCC 5th Assessment Report (AR5), 100-year GWP (AR5); Emission factor source: IEA, EGrid, Green-e, AIB, WRI’s Corporate GHG Accounting Protocol. f. Operational Control g. WRI’s Corporate GHG Accounting Protocol. Data covers refrigerants, fuel and natural gas consumed by offices, showrooms, warehouses, distribution centers, the PVH Neckwear Factory, Hawassa Factory and retail facilities worldwide. It also covers PVH U.S. Fleet and leased vehicles in the U.S. and Europe. Scope 1 = 35,039 MT CO2e (Scope 1 and 2) Offices = 12,203 Retail= 92,807 Warehouses = 21,046 Vehicles = 2,822. Offices include emissions from showrooms. Warehouses include emissions from distribution centers and includes fugitive emissions from vehicle refrigerants. 44 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 G R I / I D E N T I F I E D M AT E R I A L S A S P E C T S & B O U N D A R I E S DISCLOSURE NUMBER AND TITLE 2018 RESPONSE Emissions (continued) 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions a. 108,483 metric tons of CO2e b. 93,839 metric tons of CO2e c. CO2, CH4, N2O d. i. & ii. 2015. 106,055 metric tons of CO2e (market-based). 2015 was the first year that we had conducted a global GHG footprint. Scope 2 emissions increased between 2015 and 2017 due to: • New facilities opened and increased electricity consumption. Scope 2 emissions decreased between 2017 and 2018 due to: • The purchase of renewable energy credits in North America and the Netherlands, reducing over 31,000 metric tons of CO2e • Improved tracking of electricity for North America Retail resulting in a 2% decrease in modelled data. iii. We restated our 2015 baseline using the market-based approach so that we can account for renewable energy purchases and generation e. GWP Source: IPCC 5th Assessment Report (AR5), 100-year GWP (AR5); Emission factor source: IEA, EGrid, Green-e, AIB, WRI’s Corporate GHG Accounting Protocol. f. Operational Control g. WRI’s Corporate GHG Accounting Protocol. Data covers electricity purchased by offices, showrooms, warehouses, distribution centers, the PVH Neckwear Factory, Hawassa Factory and retail facilities worldwide. Scope 2 = 93,839 MT CO2e (Scope 1 and 2) Offices = 12,203 Retail= 92,807 Warehouses = 21,046 Vehicles = 2,822. Offices include emissions from showrooms. Warehouses include emissions from distribution centers. 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Omission reason: Information unavailable. We plan to publish our scope 3 baseline data in the coming months. 305-4 GHG emissions intensity a. 4.8 & .01 & .008 b. Employee & revenue & square footage c. Scope 1 & 2 emissions d. CO2, CH4, N2O, HFC 134a, R-404A, R-410A, HCFC-22 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions a. 23,570 metric tons of CO2e reduced (Scope 1 and Scope 2) (From 2017 to 2018) b. Scope 1: CO2, CH4, N2O, HFC 134a, R-404A, R-410A, HCFC-22 Scope 2: CO2, CH4, N2O c. 2015 was the first year that we have conducted a global GHG footprint. d. Scope 1 and Scope 2. 2018 was our baseline year for Scope 3, so do not have reduction data. e. See response for letter G in 305-1 and 305-2. 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting Omission reason: Information unavailable substances (ODS) PVH does not collect data of sufficient quality to enable reporting 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and Omission reason: Information unavailable other significant air emissions PVH does not collect data of sufficient quality to enable reporting 45 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 G R I / I D E N T I F I E D M AT E R I A L S A S P E C T S & B O U N D A R I E S DISCLOSURE NUMBER AND TITLE 2018 RESPONSE Effluents & Waste 103 Management Approach Chemicals are used throughout the apparel manufacturing process. Managing these (parts 1, 2 chemicals effectively and identifying safer substances is central to protecting human health and 3) and the environment. We are committed to using safer substances in materials used to manufacture our products and within the manufacturing processes themselves to protect the consumer, workers, sourcing communities, and the natural environment. This commitment will move us towards zero discharge of hazardous chemicals across our supply chain. We will start by focusing on zero discharge of 11 chemical classes that we, along with others in our industry, have prioritized. Our journey to manage chemicals responsibly is guided by our Chemical Commitment and Action Plan. We manage chemicals within our products through our Restricted Substance List (“RSL”), which sets concentration limits for substances found in our finished products. Our RSL covers the 11 priority chemical classes and serves to phase-out intentional use of these chemicals by our suppliers. We also aim to address chemicals in the manufacturing process through the adoption of the ZDHC Manufacturing Restricted Substances List (MRSL) and Wastewater Guidelines. Implementation of the ZDHC MRSL and Wastewater Guidelines will further ensure the elimination of unintentional traces of the 11 priority chemical classes in our supply chain. To monitor compliance with our chemical management program, we take a risk-based approach to auditing suppliers and testing products, focusing on the 11 priority chemical classes. We focus our efforts on the parts of our supply chain where the most significant chemical impacts occur, such as our mills and facilities with wet processing. As such, we require these suppliers to complete the Sustainable Apparel Coalition’s Higg Index FEM, as well as achieve minimum scores in the chemical and wastewater modules. In order to drive facility-level improvements and compliance, we expanded our Corporate Responsibility assessment program in 2017 to include a more comprehensive set of chemical indicators, including wastewater testing, in line with Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemical (ZDHC) requirements. This information was collected as part of our roll-out of the Higg FEM. This has allowed us to gain a deeper understanding of chemical performance and compliance at the facility level and to identify areas for improvement. In 2018, we expanded the scope of this work with more than 125 strategic mills slated to provide us with verified SAC Higg 3.0 FEM data. We also conducted a wastewater testing pilot, leveraging the ZDHC Gateway to upload and share results. 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination a. Total volume of planned and unplanned water discharges: 96,133,412 cubic meters (Supply Chain) Industrial wastewater: 35,289,779 cubic meters Domestic wastewater: 10,109,235 cubic meters Combined wastewater: 50,734,398 cubic meters b. Facilities that completed Higg FEM reported if they treated Domestic and Industrial wastewater separately or together. • Industrial wastewater: Water used in production, lubrication, cooling, maintenance, cleaning of production machines, etc. • Domestic wastewater: Water used in toilets, showers, kitchens, cleaning, etc. • If they reported that their Industrial and Domestic wastewater was treated together, their wastewater amount was reported as Combined wastewater • The total volume is the sum of Industrial, Domestic, and Combined wastewater Only facilities with verified data are included in this analysis. This data is from 2017. 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method b. 2018 Totals (all metric tons) (Owned & Operated) iv. Recovery/Reuse: 37 ii. Recycling: 12,189 v. Incineration: 138 iii. Composting: 0 vii. Landfill: 531 ix. E-Waste/Universal Waste: 25 Waste to Energy/Biogas: 48 vi. Deep well injection: n/a viii. On-site storage: n/a ix. Other: n/a c. Information provided by the waste disposal contractors. Data covers select facilities in the US, Canada, Hong Kong, and the Netherlands. 306-3 Significant spills Omission reason: Information unavailable PVH does not collect data of sufficient quality to enable reporting 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste Omission reason: Information unavailable PVH does not collect data of sufficient quality to enable reporting 46 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 G R I / I D E N T I F I E D M AT E R I A L S A S P E C T S & B O U N D A R I E S DISCLOSURE NUMBER AND TITLE 2018 RESPONSE Effluents & Waste (continued) 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges Omission reason: Information unavailable and/or runoff PVH does not collect data of sufficient quality to enable reporting Supplier Environmental Assessment 103 Management Approach We recognize the importance of the environmental impact of our suppliers. We include (parts 1, 2 environmental criteria in full (“long form”) supplier assessments (this applies to approximately and 3) two thirds of new suppliers). The assessments are implemented and managed by assessors, regional leads, report QA and brand liaisons, and overseen by the CR leadership, through regular updates and escalations when necessary. We evaluate assessments at the regional level, with controls at the brand liaison and report QA levels. The CR leadership is responsible for oversight. In 2018, PVH utilized the SAC’s Higg FEM across our supply chain. The Higg FEM is a standardized tool for measuring apparel suppliers’ environmental impacts and helping them drive improvements across seven impact areas. The tool enables us to manage the environmental impacts in our supply chain more effectively and improve the quality of our reporting. In 2018 we rolled out the Higg FEM to 548 (Direct) facilities in the PVH supply chain. Virtually all of these facilities have completed the data gathering process and over 70% had this data verified. In 2019, we anticipate that approximately 650 facilities in the PVH supply chain, including approximately 140 that involve wet processors (e.g., mills, laundries and dyehouses), will complete the Higg FEM along with our core CR assessment. 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using 85% of new suppliers were screened using environmental criteria. This is based on the environmental criteria number of new suppliers who received long-form or ABVTEX assessments. 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the Omission reason: Information unavailable supply chain and actions taken PVH does not collect data of sufficient quality to enable reporting Employment 103 Management Approach We are committed to providing our most important asset – our approximately 38,000 (parts 1, 2 associates around the globe – with a great place to work and the opportunities to develop and 3) personally and professionally. In addition, we offer competitive pay and benefits, tailoring our offerings to the countries and regions where we work. We continuously strive to improve the benefits we offer. Some of the benefits we offer are listed below (401-2) 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Total Turnover: 53% Voluntary: 46% Involuntary: 6% NOTE: This data includes Americas + AsiaPac and excludes Europe. It includes corporate and retail. 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees We are committed to providing our most important asset – our approximately 38,000 that are not provided to temporary associates around the globe – with a great place to work and the opportunities to develop or part-time employees personally and professionally. In addition, we offer competitive pay and benefits, tailoring our offerings to the countries and regions where we work. Specific benefits vary by associate grade, type of facility and region and may include: • PVH Wellness Program • Health, dental, and vision insurance • Life and Accidental Death & Dismemberment insurance • Critical Illness, Accident and Hospital Indemnity Insurance Programs • Disability insurance • Retirement plan benefits (401(k) and pension) are available to part-time employees meeting minimum IRS hours requirements • Domestic partner benefits • Employee Assistance Program “EAP” • Equity Program • Flexible Spending and Health Savings Accounts • Financial wellness/planning and pre-retirement workshops • Flexible working arrangements • Paid time off • Parental leave benefits • Identity Theft Protection • Group Legal • Group Auto & Home Insurance • Adoption Assistance • Backup Care • Tuition Reimbursement, College Scholarship Program, 529 College Savings, College and Educational advise program • Employee product discounts program • Other benefits relevant and applicable to certain offices and geographies 47 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 G R I / I D E N T I F I E D M AT E R I A L S A S P E C T S & B O U N D A R I E S DISCLOSURE NUMBER AND TITLE 2018 RESPONSE Employment (continued) 401-3 Parental leave Omission reason: Information unavailable Although PVH has a progressive parental leave policy, PVH does not collect data of sufficient quality to enable reporting Occupational Health & Safety (GRI Standards 2016) 103 Management Approach We work to provide our associates with safe working environments, as well as initiatives (parts 1, 2 and benefits that promote health and wellbeing and foster a positive work-life balance. and 3) In our warehouses and distribution centers, our management approach involves providing site and division safety leadership, ensuring facility and division compliance with corporate safety standards, implementing safety directives, continuously improving safety performance and ensuring safety policies and procedures are aligned with governmental regulations. To measure effectiveness, we perform safety audits and inspect facilities, machinery and safety equipment to identify and correct potential hazards, and to ensure safety regulation compliance. We also conduct ergonomic evaluations of job functions and provide recommendations on methods and techniques. We investigate industrial accidents, near-miss incidents and occupational injuries to determine causes, install preventive measures and manage return-to-work activities. We set internal targets and objectives in relation to the above management approach. We also provide for the safety of associates through a business continuity program, which involves associate preparedness, local site preparations, crisis management and business recovery 403-1 Workers representation in formal a. Our warehouses and distribution centers have Safety Committees. Facilities with multiple joint management–worker health shifts have committee meetings on each shift and meet at least once per quarter. and safety committees b. Safety Committees are made up of representatives from multiple departments. They represent all associates in their respective area(s), inclusive of the entire workforce (100%). Training & Education 103 Management Approach PVH University (PVH U) enables associates around the globe to build core competencies (parts 1, 2 through engaging and impactful learning content. It focuses on: and 3) 1. Providing opportunities to develop skills for success in current roles and to prepare for future roles 2. Developing a robust pipeline of leadership talent 3. Supporting the business in upskilling organizations to meet evolving business needs PVH U is organized into academies, including Leadership, Inclusion and Diversity; Professional Skills; and Systems and Applications. In 2019 PVH U is adding a Digital Academy and a Logistics Academy to support the execution of business priorities. The curriculum within each academy includes a variety of offerings, including structured programs, ILT, VILT, elearning, speaker series, and online resources. The Digital Academy in particular will support the digital transformation of marketing and operations, as well as elevate the digital literacy baseline across the organization. Globally PVH U offers a wide range of different courses, tailored to regional needs. This includes several courses developed by our Talent Development team, including Design Your Future, a course to guide associates in setting and achieving personal career goals. This aligns with an increased focus on self-directed development and growth through our performance cycle. More than 365 courses were offered in 2018 across classroom and virtual options. PVH U OnDemand online content was upgraded to include LinkedIn Learning, TED Talks, Business of Fashion, and Knowledge at Wharton. More than 500 people, from front-line associates to executives, have participated in PVH University’s suite of Leadership Programs. 404-1 Average hours of training Approximately 3 hours of classroom training and 3 hours of online training per employee. per year per employee We do not track this information by gender or employee category 48 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 G R I / I D E N T I F I E D M AT E R I A L S A S P E C T S & B O U N D A R I E S DISCLOSURE NUMBER AND TITLE 2018 RESPONSE Training & Education (continued) 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills PVH University supports upskilling — or upgrading employee skills — in alignment with and transition assistance programs business priorities. In 2019 the Digital Academy will 1) elevate the baseline digital literacy across the enterprise through online education and guest speaker series; and 2) upskill the marketing groups to prepare them to deliver on increased needs for digital content, consumer engagement, social media, and using consumer data. This will be achieved through curated learning, expert workshops, and learning from partners. To support the successful implementation of enterprise systems, PVH has taken a blended approach to training and upgrading skills. Business Power Users (BPUs) are identified from the business to go through in-depth training in the systems and the business processes to enable them to teach and coach other business users to support the successful implementation. PVH U is also responsible for designing and developing formal end-user training and support materials. PVH provides outplacement services for associates who retire or who are terminated. These services include transition coaching and job search support. PVH also supports associates in maintaining CPUs or in pursuing advanced degrees or certificates related to their fields of work. 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular 100% of employees have annual reviews, but due to start dates and other considerations, performance and career development reviews these may not all have fallen within the reporting period. In 2019 PVH is moving to a new approach to performance & development that focuses on quarterly performance discussions between managers and their direct reports. Diversity & Equal Opportunity 103 Management Approach PVH’s focus on Inclusion & Diversity (“I&D”) is supported by three pillars: strategic (parts 1, 2 partnerships, education & awareness, and our Business Resource Groups (“BRGs”). These and 3) three pillars drive our I&D initiatives and help make PVH a place where every associate feels valued. Our BRGs are led by our associates and offer them an opportunity to network with each other, gain visibility, and grow professionally. We currently have Women’s, African American, LGBTQ, and Working Parents BRG chapters. We also focus on our commitment to equality in the workplace through our I&D Academy and the rollout of the Inclusion@Work training, and our collaboration with the Council of Fashion Designer of America (“CFDA”) to foster inclusion & diversity in retail companies across America. 49 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 G R I / I D E N T I F I E D M AT E R I A L S A S P E C T S & B O U N D A R I E S DISCLOSURE NUMBER AND TITLE 2018 RESPONSE Diversity & Equal Opportunity (continued) 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees A. Board of Directors: 33% women B. Employees includes US population only By Gender Male 5,604 35.6% Female 10,121 64.3% Not Declared 12 0.1% Total 15,737 By Age Group Under 30 8,149 51.8% 30-50 5,049 32.1% 51+ 2,539 16.1% Total 15,737 By Race & Gender White Male 2,225 14.1% Non-White Male 3,379 21.5% White Female 4,249 27.0% Non-White Female 5,872 37.3% White Not Declared 4 0.0% Non-White Not Declared 8 0.1% Total 15,737 By Race & Age Grouping White Under 30 2,731 Non-White Under 30 5,418 White 30-50 2,259 Non-White 30-50 2,790 White 50+ 1,488 Non-White 50+ 1,051 Total 15,737 * US Employee population as of 12/31/18; Includes regular employees only, excluding seasonal, interns and temporary staff. ** Includes retail and non-retail population 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration Omission reason: Information unavailable of women to men PVH does not collect data of sufficient quality to enable reporting Non-Discrimination 103 Management Approach Discrimination is prohibited by our Code of Conduct. Our assessment tool contains indicators (parts 1, 2 related to discrimination and if instances are found, they are addressed as part of our and 3) remediation program with the supplier. 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and Omission reason: Information Unavailable corrective actions taken Due to a change in data systems, we are no longer able to track this information. Freedom of Association & Collective Bargaining 103 Management Approach Freedom of association (“FOA”) is protected by our Code of Conduct. Protection of FOA (parts 1, 2 is also an integral part of our Human Rights program. and 3) Compliance with our FOA code element is measured via our assessment tool and, if violations are found, are addressed as part of our remediation program with the supplier. When necessary, violations of FOA are escalated to our CR leadership. Subsequent interventions may involve collaborating with third parties and partners in civil society. 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to The PVH CoC includes FOA/CBA and covers all suppliers. All suppliers undergo labor and freedom of association and collective bargaining human rights assessments against the CoC. may be at risk 50 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 G R I / I D E N T I F I E D M AT E R I A L S A S P E C T S & B O U N D A R I E S DISCLOSURE NUMBER AND TITLE 2018 RESPONSE Child Labor 103 Management Approach Child Labor is prohibited by our Code of Conduct. Our assessment tool contains indicators (parts 1, 2 related to Child Labor, and if found instances are remediated in partnership with the supplier. and 3) 408-1 Significant risk of child labor in operations A Shared Commitment, The PVH CoC includes child labor restrictions and covers all suppliers. and suppliers All suppliers undergo labor and human rights assessments against the CoC. Forced or Compulsory Labor 103 Management Approach Forced or compulsory labor is prohibited by our Code of Conduct. Compliance is measured (parts 1, 2 via specific indicators in our assessment tool and included in every assessment. In 2018, we and 3) revised our Migrant Worker Policy & Guidelines to provide more guidance to suppliers on our expectations around implementing policies, procedures and monitoring mechanisms regarding this issue, and published said Guidelines in 2019. 409-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to CA Transparency in Supply Chain & UK Modern Slavery Statement freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at risk PVH CR Supply Chain Guidelines The PVH Code of Conduct includes forced or compulsory labor and covers all suppliers. All suppliers undergo labor and human rights assessments against the Code of Conduct. Human Rights Assessment 103 Management Approach We are working toward moving beyond compliance, and in doing so, training and capacity (parts 1, 2 building are integral components. PVH CR maintains formal internal training and capacity and 3) building functions, with targets and plans presented to the CR Committee of the Board. We share practical strategies and deliver training to support our suppliers in developing systems to better manage human rights and environmental risks in their factories. With a focus on driving positive change in working conditions and employment practices, our training sessions cover topics including fire safety, human rights implementation, worker-management dialogue, chemical management, assessment practices and data management. In 2017 human rights and social assessments were expanded to key trim suppliers (Level 2 Suppliers). 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human Supplier Factory Assessments by Region rights reviews or impact assessments East & Southeast Asia 946 Americas 410 South Asia 226 Europe, Middle East & Africa 189 Total Assessments (global) 1,771 412-2 Employee training on human rights Omission reason: Information Unavailable Due to a change in data systems, we are no longer able to track this information. 412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts In all of our licensing agreements, our policy and branded merchandise agreement, we have that include human rights clauses or that standard language around auditing, screening, disclosure, and meeting our standards. underwent human rights screening 51 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 G R I / I D E N T I F I E D M AT E R I A L S A S P E C T S & B O U N D A R I E S DISCLOSURE NUMBER AND TITLE 2018 RESPONSE Local Communities 103 Management Approach At PVH, giving back is embedded in our culture, and we are committed to creating positive (parts 1, 2 change in the communities where we work and live. Our mission is to support the needs of and 3) women and children around the world by creating safe spaces, improving access to education and enhancing quality of life. The PVH Foundation is a nonprofit corporation that supports our global philanthropic campaigns and initiatives, as well as our contributions to disaster relief efforts. Designed to align, strengthen and expand global strategic programming and philanthropic partnerships, The PVH Foundation team fosters a combined effort between our corporate and business team initiatives to achieve a greater impact worldwide. PVH Cares serves as the global “call to action” for our approximately 38,000 associates to donate their time, talent and resources through volunteering in their local communities. We give associates the flexibility to contribute to and lend their professional expertise to local causes they care about, and in the US and Canada, we offer 48 hours of paid volunteer time along with our matching gift program. The PVH Foundation’s disaster relief response includes grant funding, product donations, and associate fundraising. We partner with the American Red Cross and Save the Children to provide relief on the ground and to provide product donations to displaced families and individuals. In 2017, we launched the PVH Associate Relief Fund, a charitable program funded by our associates for our associates. It provides cash grants to eligible colleagues in need due to natural disasters and personal hardship. 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, Local community engagement activities exist in all major office locations. We do not report on impact assessments, and development programs the percentage of our operations implementing community engagement activities, but rather a selection of the projects that take place throughout the year. 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential Omission reason: Information unavailable negative impacts on local communities PVH does not collect data of sufficient quality to enable reporting Supplier Social Assessment 103 Management Approach Human rights assessments are part of our supplier on-boarding policy. We do not begin (parts 1, 2 working with a supplier unless they have been assessed in line with labor/human rights and 3) criteria. If a potential new supplier is given a ‘red’ rating, we require them to complete a set of corrective actions before we will consider working with them. Our supplier assessments are implemented and managed by assessors, regional leads, report quality assurance (“QA”) and brand liaisons, and overseen by our CR leadership, through regular updates and escalations (where necessary). We evaluate supplier assessments at the regional level, with controls at the brand liaison and report QA levels. Our CR leadership is responsible for oversight. Following initial assessments, we re-assess suppliers based on previous ratings, participation in continuous improvement programs, and production volume. Supplier ratings inform purchasing decisions and training initiatives. We maintain a Responsible Exit policy, based on Fair Labor Association (FLA) guidance. We confer with specific sourcing divisions to determine how particular suppliers might be incentivized to raise their performance. In 2017, we expanded our assessment program to include trim facilities for the first time to help us gain a broader view of our suppliers’ practices. We worked cross-functionally to conduct a comprehensive mapping of our trim facilities, and broadened this to include mills, laundries, and other wet processors. We have set up a process to ensure we have an accurate annual mapping that identifies the critical facilities in our supply chain to allow us to focus on driving responsible improvements over the long term. 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using 100% social criteria We have an onboarding policy covering this topic. We do not begin working with any supplier without first screening them in line with labor/human rights criteria. 52 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 G R I / I D E N T I F I E D M AT E R I A L S A S P E C T S & B O U N D A R I E S DISCLOSURE NUMBER AND TITLE 2018 RESPONSE Supplier Social Assessment (continued) GRI 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain a. 1,771 suppliers assessed in 2018 and actions taken b. Factory ratings inform compliance performance, cadence for remediation and subsequent a. Number of suppliers assessed for assessments, and production decisions for PVH Business Divisions. “Gold” rating indicates social impacts. that the supplier is an industry leader with a formal CR program and systems in place to selfb. Number of suppliers identified as having manage environmental and social performance. “Green” and “Yellow” ratings indicate that the significant actual and potential negative supplier exceeds or meets Code of Conduct standards. “Orange–1st” and “Orange-2nd” ratings social impacts. mean that the supplier has critical issues. While these suppliers are authorized for production, c. Significant actual and potential negative PVH exercises vigilance and actively intervenes to remediate issues and continue business social impacts identified in the supply chain. relationships. “Gray” ratings mean that the supplier is authorized for production, falls under d. Percentage of suppliers identified as having a de minimis or other exemption category and may undergo a self-assessment, short-form significant actual and potential negative social assessment or rating equivalency. “Red” and “White” ratings mean that the supplier impacts with which improvements were agreed is not authorized for production and PVH will make a responsible exit, if applicable. upon as a result of assessment. e. Percentage of suppliers identified as having CR Color Rating Global significant actual and potential negative Gold 2% social impacts with which relationships were Green 14% terminated as a result of assessment, and why. Yellow 55% Orange-1st 5% Orange-2nd 1% Red 1% White 1% Gray 21% Note: This includes factories that are part of the Better Work program and undergo a Better Work assessment. Red and white factories are not authorized for production. 53 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 G R I / I D E N T I F I E D M AT E R I A L S A S P E C T S & B O U N D A R I E S PVH Corp. 200 Madison Avenue New York, NY 10016 PVH.com
