Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance o r a t e S o c i a l Corp t li t y R e p o r Responsibi 2018 1 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Table Of Contents Message from the Bank Chairman and from the Bank President & CEO....4 Words from the Corporate Social Responsibility Officer..............................6 About Mizrahi-Tefahot Group........................................................................9 Investing in the community ................................................68 Corporate social responsibility management concept at Mizrahi-Tefahot Impact on Israeli society through involvement and volunteer work...........69 Group............................................................................................................16 Promote and empower children and youth from disadvantaged populations....71 UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)............................................20 Support for NGOs and social businesses that promote social causes......75 About the sixth Corporate Social Responsibility Report............................22 Promoting financial education......................................................................77 Identifying material issues related to corporate social responsibility...........23 Promoting Education And Society..............................................................79 Investing in customers ..........................................................30 Let us meet at Mizrahi-Tefahot ..................................................................81 Our customers..............................................................................................31 Investing in the community.............................................................................84 Wide banking deployment...........................................................................34 Involvement with cooperation, dialogue and feedback..................................85 Customer experience and service quality....................................................36 Reinforcing Israel's economy through responsible supply chain management .................................................................................................88 Promoting dialogue and listening................................................................45 Looking forward ..........................................................................................92 Fairness and transparency towards customers...........................................51 Responsible Marketing And Advertising.....................................................53 Investing in employees .........................................................94 Diverse customers and promotion of various demographics....................54 Mizrahi-Tefahot employees..........................................................................95 Promoting disadvantaged populations and help customers in crisis.........57 Promoting fair work environment and employment terms........................101 Promoting accessibility for persons with disabilities...................................59 Diversity, equality and avoiding discrimination in employment..................111 Development of environmental and social products..................................61 Staff training and development.....................................................................116 Information security and keeping information confidential.........................63 Dialogue with employees...........................................................................121 Looking forward...........................................................................................66 Looking forward ........................................................................................123 2 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Investing in the environment ...........................................125 External control and benchmark index.................................167 Group Responsibility For The Environment..............................................126 Quality assurance certification...................................................................168 Reducing paper consumption......................................................................127 GRI Index....................................................................................................170 Waste recycling and processing................................................................129 Improved energy efficiency.........................................................................130 Carbon footprint..........................................................................................134 Dialog on environmental issues......................................................................135 Regulatory compliance and control...............................................................136 Looking forward.........................................................................................137 Commitment to accountable conduct .........................138 Group commitment to accountable conduct.............................................139 Board members..........................................................................................140 Remuneration policy....................................................................................144 Avoiding conflict of interest........................................................................146 Commitment to regulatory compliance......................................................147 Risk management and control..................................................................151 Management of environmental and social risk ..........................................155 Deployment of business ethics.................................................................158 Our commitment to preventing corruption:................................................161 Looking forward.........................................................................................166 3 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Message From The Bank Chairman resources in the banking system, allow the Bank to provide an optimal solution for all stakeholders. And From The Bank President & CEO The Bank continues to operate in line with its strategic five-year plan for 2017-2021. Accordingly, in 2018 the Bank continued to expand its Dear readers, business across all business segments, and in particular in the small We hereby present you with the corporate social responsibility report and medium business segments. This year, the Bank continued to by Mizrahi-Tefahot Group for 2018. The report before you covers in expand its branch network and inaugurated six new service points depth the Group's activity with regard to corporate social responsibility to expand its services and availability to customers. This was done in 2018, activity which forms an integral part of our core business through expansion of its operations in the Arab, Jewish Orthodox and organizational culture, based on the realization that there is a and retiree segments. close link between business excellence and a responsible, valueMizrahi-Tefahot Group is a significant player in the real estate market based perception. and considers itself as taking part in construction of the Land of Israel. These activities and report reflect our commitment to stakeholders and The Bank also recognizes the importance of identifying risk and the understanding that, being a key financial organization in Israel's opportunities facing the Bank and provides loans for development, economy, we are committed to acting responsibly and transparently construction or launching of products with a positive environmental and to investing resources to benefit society and the environment. and social impact. Therefore, in 2018 we increased credit extended In this document we elaborate the Group's activity in 2018 on many to social and environmental initiatives, from NIS 1 billion in 2017 to diverse topics, including creating value for our customers and staying in NIS 1.7 billion in 2018. contact with them through diverse means, extending credit to promote With our customers – we continue to operate based on the principle social and environmental issues, streamlining steps to safeguard the and understanding that there is no alternative for the unique added environment, social involvement in diverse projects and supporting value brought by a professional, experienced human banker to their our community, creating a fair, appropriate and responsible work customer relationship. In our view, it is people who make the difference environment for our employees, ensuring appropriate corporate between good service and outstanding service. This year, too, we governance, deploying ethical behavior, preventing corruption and continued to implement the concept of human service, which optimally managing risk, including social and environmental risk. combines personal and professional contact between bankers The unique characteristics of Bank Mizrahi-Tefahot, being the most and customers, using advanced technology to bring customer and efficient bank with the highest growth rate, and the youngest human banker closer together. This combination plays a major role in the 4 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance service experience offered by the Bank to its customers. Results are of pride for us, with these activities carried out with involvement of indeed apparent in the field – our customer surveys over the years Bank employees, their families and even Bank customers. In 2018 show that our customer satisfaction is the highest in the banking as well, the Bank continued to expand its Let us meet at Mizrahisystem, and they are happy and satisfied with how their needs are Tefahot activities, designed to bring together the community and addressed by the Bank. the Bank through various general-interest presentations in diverse In all areas, we act in conformity with the Bank's Code of Ethics banking and other fields. – which reflects the Bank spirit and its organizational culture. The Mizrahi-Tefahot Group is proud to partner on value-based action and Bank's Code of Ethics is deployed across the organization through is committed to further act in this spirit, for the benefit of its customers various training efforts. The Bank operates and Ethical Committee, and investors, Group employees, the community and the environment. to discuss ethical dilemmas arising from the field and set policy and We shall continue to uphold the principles of the UN Global Impact action required to deploy the values embodied in the Code of Ethics. initiative, including preserving human rights, employment standards, The Group sees the great importance of empowering its human environmental protection and the fight against corrpution, and we capital; therefore we take action designed to empower, promote shall continue to promote achievement of UN social development and develop the Group's employees, which we regard as fullgoals (SDG) across our operations. fledged partners in its operations. This includes many activities, This report is another communication channel with our stakeholders, which are integrated with routine work and which are designed to with the intention of fostering open, transparent dialogue on all of create a more comfortable, pleasant work environment, to expand the issues contained therein. We invite readers of this report to the knowledge and professional development of employees and to comment on it and to further challenge us, so that we may build support relations between the Bank, its customers and employees. upon our actions in these important matters. We encourage our employees to develop within the Group and to grow into management roles. We wish you a pleasant read, As a business organization whose activities and achievements depend on the community in which it operates, the Bank sees itself as obligated to show involvement in the community, to support populations with special needs. to assist NGOs and businesses which promote social goals and to promote financial education for Mr. Moshe Vidman – Mr. Eldad Fresher – informed economic conduct. Our activity in the community is a source Chairman of the Board of Directors Bank President & CEO 5 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Words From The Corporate Social approved by Bank management and by the Board of Directors; consequently, we created the materiality matrix, which is the basis Responsibility Officer1 for Bank operations related to corporate social responsibility and for reporting our activities in this report. Mizrahi-Tefahot Group has issued, for the sixth year, its corporate social responsibility report to the public and to its stakeholders. This In 2018, we continued to make progress in report covers operations across the Group and its subsidiaries in Israel and at Group overseas affiliates in 2018, emphasizing social diverse areas: and environmental issues. With customers: Issues and considerations related to corporate social responsibility As part of the Bank's unique strategy to expand its service offering are included in Group operations on daily basis, based on the to customers in different segments, we opened six new branches, understanding that incorporating corporate social responsibility in of which three are located in Arab towns, and we also expanded business operations generates value both for the Group and for Bank operations in the Jewish Orthodox sector and among retirees. stakeholders thereof. We do this through ongoing dialogue with We expanded and adapted the services intended for business employees, customers and suppliers, in order to deploy the concept customers and added a new, unique product – Mortgage for of corporate social responsibility of the Bank across all parts of the businesses – which helps the business owner in acquiring a property organization, with commitment to meeting the goals we have set for their current operations, in lieu of leasing. for ourselves. We have increased our environmental and social lending to Bank This area is managed at the Group in an orderly fashion, integrates customers who promote these key areas. the work of multiple entities and requires significant coordination and preparation, in order to lead processes with long-term impact. With the community: In 2018, we reviewed the material issues to identify the ones on which This year, we increased our investment in the Group's communitythe Group would focus with regard to corporate social responsibility; social activity by 9.5% over the previous year, with emphasis placed to this end, we engaged in in-depth dialogue with our stakeholders. on employee involvement and volunteering in the various projects. This dialogue resulted in identification of the importance of the issues We offered mortgage-related workshops for the public at large, to for each of our stakeholders individually and for all stakeholders as offer tools for selecting the most appropriate track, and we continued a group. The list of issues found to be material was discussed and to deliver financial training for individual and business customers. 1. GRI index response 102-46,102-48,102-49 6 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance The Bank assists social enterprises from the outset, through out of total paper purchased by the Group. professional guidance and financial support, to allow them to grow In 2018 we also reduced our carbon footprint in absolute terms by into a sustainable business promoting social causes. 7.1% and per employee (carbon footprint intensity) by 8.3%, and With employees: further reduced our electricity consumption by 10.8%. This year, too, we continued to grow and the number of Bank Management of corporate social employees increased, while ensuring a high-quality, professional responsibility at the Bank: work environment supportive both the personal, professional level and the external surrounds of family and children. This year, too, the Bank celebrated Corporate Social Responsibility Week, designed to raise awareness of Bank activities related to As part of this growth, Bank employees benefit from development corporate social and environmental responsibility and to engage and promotion opportunities. In 2018, some 95% of appointed our employees as partners in these activities. As part of this week, managers were Bank employees being promoted; we increased the we held fairs selling goods from various NGOs, held a quiz about total training hours delivered at the Bank and the average training Bank activities related to corporate social responsibility with prize hours per employee, including professional courses, managerial awards, and all employees received a thermal cup made from training, personal development and empowerment. recycled material, to reduce the use of disposable cups. In 2018, the percentage of female managers at the Bank continued We also continued to intensify the integration of Sustainable to grow, with women accounting for 50% of all managers and 42% Development Goals set by the United Nations (SDGs) into the of Bank executive management. Group work plan. This year we focused on selecting our SDG With regard to the environment: goals to be promoted in 2019, and Group goals related to corporate social responsibility were specified around these goals for this year. The Bank continues to act in order to increase awareness of The combination of objectives and the link to reporting the Bank's environmental protection and to minimize the negative impact of social and environmental activities reinforces our commitment to its operations through activities designed to increase recycling, promoting sustainable business operations. Throughout the report, increase efficiency and reduce consumption. you can read about comments by the Group and Group activities As our organization grows, we have been successful in reducing paper to promote these goals. consumption. In 2018 alone, we reduced our paper consumption by This annual report presents our endeavors, initiatives on which 12 tons and increased the percentage of paper sent for recycling we partner and key goals for Bank operations in 2019 with regard 7 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance to corporate social responsibility and is a managerial tool for constant improvement. We set ourselves a goal to continue to act with fairness and transparency, which are fundamental values of the Bank, and consequently, to keep reporting in future on our progress with regard to corporate social responsibility. A fair, transparent relationship with all stakeholders, and in particular with customers who are the focal point of our business operations, is the basis for our earned trust and mutual success. Allow me to also thank all employees and managers at all Bank levels, who help in our daily work and in creating this report. We would be glad to receive comments on this report and on our actions related to corporate social responsibility – from all stakeholders. Corporate social responsibility – for the environment and the community in which we live! Sincerely yours, Tamar Saffer, Corporate Social Responsibility Officer For inquiries about this report – 03-7559675 // saffert@umtb.co.il // Bank Mizrahi-Tefahot, P.O. Box 3470, Ramat Gan 8 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance About The Bank attaches great importance to generating direct and indirect value to stakeholders by virtue of its activities. This value is reflected by Bank Mizrahi-Tefahot contribution to economic growth, by providing banking solutions to individual and business customers, by the commitment to empowering the community Group in areas where we do business, by strict adherence to fair remuneration of Bank employees and managers, by providing employment to thousands of employees and by duly paying taxes to the State – along with creating value for investors. The Bank maintains that its capacity to create social economic value for stakeholders would ensure its success over time and would also contribute to creating economic value for shareholders. Thus, the Bank is acting to properly prepare for future challenges and for business continuity for critical services under various scenarios and in providing service to customers even in emergencies, in as much as possible. Bank operations with regard to business continuity aspects are incorporated in a specific policy. Incorporated as a public Business merged with Bank Privatization of the Bank and Bank renamed Bank HaPoel HaMizrahi Ltd., renamed transfer to the controlling Mizrahi-Tefahot Ltd. Merger of Bank company – Bank HaMizrahi United Mizrahi Bank Ltd. (1969) shareholders – Ofer and (November 7, 2005) Adanim (2009) Ltd. (June 6, 1923) Wertheimer families (1995, 1997) Obtained license United Mizrahi Bank Ltd. Acquisition of Bank shares transferred to do business merged with Tefahot Bank Yahav to State control through (May 13, 1924) Mortgage Bank Israel Ltd. (2008) Batuchot (1983) (2005) 9 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Mizrahi-Tefahot Bank Ltd. was one of the first banks to be established In addition to its banking activities, the Bank Group is engaged in in Israel. The Bank was incorporated as a public company in 1923, various activities related to the capital market, including: Consultancy under the name Bank HaMizrahi Ltd., and started doing business in for capital market activities, distribution and operation of mutual 1924. In 1969, upon the merger with Bank HaPoel HaMizrahi Ltd., funds, management of securities portfolios for customers, pension the Bank was renamed United Mizrahi Bank Ltd. In 1983, as part of advisory service, trust services, provision of registration services for an arrangement between the Government of Israel and the banks, securities listed on the stock exchange in Israel, operation of provident Bank shares were transferred to Government control. In 1995 and funds and insurance incidental to mortgages. The Bank Group also 1997, the Bank was privatized in two stages, and was transferred engages in credit operations and participates in syndication deals. to control of the present controlling shareholders. Following the Group share out of the Top 5 bank groups (as of December 31, 2018): merger with Tefahot Mortgage Bank Israel Ltd., in November 2005 the merged entity was renamed Bank Mizrahi-Tefahot Ltd. – its Loans to the public 19.1% current name. As of 2018, the Group Board of Directors is headed by Mr. Moshe Deposits from the public2 16.4% Vidman and the Bank President & CEO is Mr. Eldad Fresher. Total assets 16.6% Group And Bank Operations Shareholders’ equity 13% 1 The Bank Group is one of the top five banking groups in Israel, doing business in Israel and overseas. The Bank Group is engaged in commercial banking (business and retail) as well as mortgage activities in Israel, through a nationwide network of 193 branches and business centers. Furthermore, business customers are supported by business centers and professional departments at Bank headquarters, which specialize by sector. As of 2018, the Bank's overseas operations are conducted through 3 bank affiliates (two branches and a subsidiary) and representative offices in Europe and in Latin America. 2. The Bank Group's share of deposits from the public, among the five top bank groups, 1. GRI index response 102-45 excluding deposits from institutional investors, as of December 31, 2018 was 15.5%. 10 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Organizational Structure1 The Bank organizational structure is intended to support achievement of Bank objectives and realization of its business plan. The structure is based on divisions and other units, reporting to the Bank President & CEO. The Internal Audit Division reports directly to the Chairman of the Board of Directors. Board of Directors Chairman – Moshe Vidman President & CEO – Eldad Fresher Bank Spokesperson – Bank Secretary – Benny Shoukroun Maya Feler Internal Legal Risk Accounting Marketing, HR and Planning, Financial IT Division Retail Business Audit Division Control and Financial Advertising Administration Operations and Division Division Banking Division Division Reporting and Business Division Client Assets Division Division Development Division Galit Racheli Doron Division Weiser Friedman Klauzner Mano Aviv Dina Navot Rita Rubinstein Nissan Levi Moshe Larry Ayala Hakim Israel Engel Ofir Morad Financial Performance In 20182 compared to NIS 1,347 million in the previous year – a decrease by 10.5%. In 2018, Bank Group revenues amounted to NIS 6,889 million Multi-period profit data shows: and operating expenses (including payroll) amounted to NIS 4,384 million. Retained economic value in this year amounted to Increase in revenue growth rate. NIS 1,336 million. Growth in revenues (from current operations) higher than Net profit for the Group in 2018 amounted to NIS 1,206 million, growth in current operating expenses. 1. GRI index response 102-45 2. This report is not a financial statement. The Bank reports its audited financial information in its annual financial statements, which are prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting policies in Israel (Israeli GAAP) and in conformity with Public Reporting Directives of the Supervisor of Banks. Operating and other expenses for 2018 include a provision, amounting to NIS 546 million, with respect to the investigation by the US Department of Justice (NIS 425 million in the second quarter and NIS 121 million in the fourth quarter). For more information about a DPA agreement reached by the Bank and the US Department of Justice, to conclude the investigation of Bank Group business with its US customers and its financial implications for these financial statements, see Note 26.C.12. to the Bank's financial statements. 11 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Group Economic Value Financial data, NIS in millions 2015 2016 2017 2018 Interest and non-interest revenues 5,392 5,640 6,000 6,889 Operating and other expenses 3,226 3,299 3,611 4,384 Provision for taxes 761 833 806 922 Dividend distribution 86 186 334 247 Economic performance Retained economic value 1,319 1,322 1,249 1,336 Pre-tax profit 1,955 2,141 2,197 2,195 Net profit for the Bank 1,134 1,266 1,347 1,206 Number of branches for the Group 177 184 187 193 Loans to the public 159,204 171,341 181,118 194,381 Of which: Loans to micro and small businesses 13,909 15,126 16,716 18,977 Loans to medium businesses 4,786 4,786 5,779 6,585 Loans to large businesses 13,132 12,525 14,833 16,236 Trade receivables Loans to households – housing loans 105,106 114,070 119,559 126,105 Loans to households – other 16,816 18,945 19,824 20,932 Loans to private banking 67 81 117 98 Loans to institutional investors 2,326 2,586 1,166 1,331 Loans to environmental products 430 445 448 1,103 Loans to social products 758 437 646 640 Total payments to suppliers 1,166 1,117 1,214 1,200 Percentage of local procurement 88% 91% 94% 95% Suppliers and community Investing in the community 12.9 14.3 14.7 16.1 Number of Group employees 6,063 6,185 6,354 6,444 Employees Payroll expenses 1,912 2,035 2,271 2,407 12 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Tax Payments At Overseas Affiliates from governments of other countries in which the Group operates. Furthermore, the Bank received no economic aid from export credit Tax liabilities of Bank subsidiaries is determined based on applicable agencies. (Except for State incentive to reduce interest in the Small tax rates in those countries. For overseas branches, the Bank Business Fund in 2018). supplements the tax indebtedness based on the tax rate in Israel. (For more information about performance of overseas subsidiaries, Holding Structure And Control see the Group's 2018 financial statements, p. 58). As of December 31, 2018, the controlling shareholders of the Bank Government Support are Wertheim Group, holding 21.75% of capital and voting rights, and Ofer Group, holding 22.33% of capital and voting rights. In 2018, the Group received no subsidies, tax relief, incentives or other economic benefits from the Government of Israel nor Further information on the holding and control structure can be found in the Group's 2018 financial statements, pp. 276-277. Holding Structure Of Key Group Entities1 Bank Mizrahi-Tefahot Ltd. Subsidiaries Auxiliary corporations Banking corporations Non-banking corporations Capital market consolidated on Tefahot Insurance 100% the Bank Agency (1989) Ltd. Bank Yahav for 20% Etgar Investment 50% Rosario Capital Ltd Statements Government Portfolio Management Employees Ltd. Company Ltd. of 100% Mizrahi Tefahot Mizrahi Tefahot 100% 100% Issuance Company Ltd. 19.99% Mizrahi-Tefahot Technology Rosario Capital Ltd Group Division Ltd Mizrahi Tefahot Trust 100% Mustang Mezzanine Netzivim Assets and Company Ltd. 20% 100% Fund, Limited Equipment Ltd Partnership 100% UMT Re. Ltd. Further information about investees and Mizrahi Tefahot 100% investments therein can be found in Note 15 to Security Services Ltd United Miztahi United Mizrahi 100% the Group's 2018 financial statements (p. 147). Overseas Holding 100% Bank (Switzerland) Co. B.V.) Netherlands) Ltd. (Zurich) 1.The Bank has holdings in other companies which are not material for Bank business. 13 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Events And Material Changes At The Payroll agreements for employees represented by the Council Group In 2018 of Managers and Authorized Signatories – On December 20, 2018, a collective bargaining agreement was concluded with the New five-year strategic plan for 2017-2021 – Given the Bank's Managers’ Council, with respect to wages and work conditions for achievements and changes to the macro-economic environment 2018-2022. For more information see Note 22.A.7 to the financial in Israel, on November 21, 2016 the Bank’s Board of Directors statements. approved a new five-year strategic plan for 2017-2021. In 2018, the Streamlining plan – On December 27, 2016, the Bank’s Board of Bank revised its dividends policy; for more information see p. 18 of Directors approved the streamlining plan recommended by Bank the 2018 financial statements. management, whereby early retirement would be possible for 300 Bank plan to relocate its headquarters units – On June 19, 2017, employees in 2017-2021, at optimal conditions. In 2018, the Bank the Bank’s Board of Directors resolved to take action in order to continued the trend of streamlining and utilizing existing resources locate, in as much as possible, the Bank's headquarters units in a as follows: Streamlining of space usage, improved branch location, single site, in Lod. For more information see Note 25K to the 2018 further leveraging of infrastructure through temporary leasing to third financial statements (p. 179). parties of space used by the Bank as reserve, completed making Bank branches accessible, in conformity with the new accessibility Significant developments in business operations – In 2018, regulations and continued planning of the Lod headquarters building. the mortgage business grew, with housing loans extended by the banking system amounting to NIS 60 billion, higher than in 2017 Business activity expansion – In 2018, the Bank and institutional and in 2016. The Bank is acting to reinforce its leadership position investors signed agreements for sale of 80% of assets and liabilities in the mortgage market in terms of market share and in perception in a housing loan portfolio valued in total at NIS 2.7 billion. The loan and further reinforce the expertise of mortgage bankers. portfolios sold include loans with LTV ratios not exceeding 60%. In 2018, the Bank continued to conduct transactions to sell off and Developments in capital structure – On February 1, 2018, the share credit risk with institutional investors and financial institutions in Bank applied to the Supervisor of Banks for approval of a buy-back Israel and overseas. Further cooperation with institutional investors of 5 million Bank shares. The share purchase is to be conducted is part of the Bank's strategic plan for 2017-2021. As part of this against shares allotted or to be alloted pursuant to the stock option activity, the Bank has expanded the providing of service for operating plans for 2014-2016 and the stock option plans for 2017-2019. On financial assets, including management and operation of housing July 23, 2018, the Supervisor of Banks approved the buy-back plan loans purchased from the Bank. subject to conditions specified. 14 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Developments in international geographic deployment – The effectiveness, the Bank was awarded a gold award in 2018 for a Bank has multiple affiliates in several countries, as set forth in the marketing campaign in the finance category for its campaign The Corporate Governance of the 2018 financial statements (p. 300). protest that made Mizrahi Tefahot the preferred bank in Israel . This marketing campaign reinforced the Bank's differentiation, increased the willingness of potential customers to transition to the Bank, and Membership Of Organizations contributed significantly to the increase in actual accounts opened. Moreover, Mizrahi-Tefahot was also awarded a bronze award in the The Bank is a member of the Bank Association and is active on the financial marketing campaigns category, for its campaign Tefahot Association's Executive Board and Legal Committee. The Bank experts vs. the mortgage monsters . is a member of the Public Company Association and conducts a dialogue with the government, the public and private environment on matters related to the banking system as a whole. Awards And Recognition In 2018, the Bank also won prestigious, leading awards in the field of marketing: In 2018, the Mizrahi-Tefahot brand was recognized for the fifth time in a row as an Israeli Superbrand by the international Superbrands organization, active in 70 countries around the world. The Superbrand title is the most coveted, prestigious international title in branding, awarded to brands and managers for outstanding marketing and managerial performance to an international standard. This prestigious title is evidence of the strength of ties between the brand and consumers in the country and of the fact that the brand provides consumers with more tangible and emotional benefits compared to other brands. In the prestigious Effie competition, which measures marketing 15 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Corporate Social The Principles Underlying The Management Concept Responsibility The guiding principles for Bank policy on this topic are based on the material issues identified by the Bank, in conformity with the Management international reporting standard typically used for corporate social responsibility, as developed by Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). This policy includes management approach to each of the issues Concept At identified as material, both for the Group and for stakeholders, which significantly impact Bank operations and the focus of Bank attention in the coming years. Mizrahi-Tefahot Involvement Of Management And Group Board Of Directors The Bank Board of Directors is tasked with setting and approving policy on corporate social responsibility and ensuring that these principles are applied and are in line with Group strategy. Group management is responsible for implementing the guidelines in policy documents and incorporating them in work processes in various areas. The Manager, Human Resources and Administration Division heads the steering committee on this subject, attended by all Bank units and subsidiaries. This committee reviews activities in the various divisions and convenes periodically, as needed. As part of deployment of the corporate social responsibility policy, in 2013 the Bank appointed the Manager, Organizational Development and Training Department in the Human Resources and Administration 16 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Division to head the field of corporate social responsibility at the Implementation Through CrossOrganizational Cooperation Bank. The appointed manager is responsible for implementation of the policy, its deployment across all employees and for monitoring achievement of objectives in this area, as set by the Bank. Corporate social responsibility policy is deployed across the Furthermore, in 2018 the Bank appointed a Manager of Corporate organization, by a process which involves all Group operations Social Responsibility, in charge of Bank operations in this field and and requires co-operation by many. of continued dialogue with the various stakeholders inside and All Bank divisions have designated corporate social responsibility outside the organization. representatives, who act as division representatives for this purpose. In addition, each executive reports to management from time to time These representatives and the corporate social responsibility Officer on the matters they are responsible for. For each topic discussed, at the Bank maintain regular work interfaces in order to implement there are meeting minutes recorded and implementation is monitored. the policy and to report on its implementation. If needed, a repeat discussion is held to review the implementation Each Bank entity is responsible for monitoring corporate social of recommendations. responsibility issues they are normally responsible for, including The Group Board of Directors plenum approves the Group's corporate authorization ranking and reporting to higher levels, that monitor the social responsibility report and the annual work plan on this matter implementation and handling of each area by these units. Thus, for is presented to the Board of Directors plenum. example, the Process Engineering Department is responsible for controlling paper reduction by streamlining diverse processes at the Bank and giving thought to reduced printing of reports and forms. Concurrently with the regular process at these units, data about social responsibility is summarized and monitored by all Bank units. These data are presented to Bank management and to the Board of Directors. As part of the corporate social responsibility policy deployment, a work plan is created every year and presented to Bank management and to the Board of Directors. Plan components are included in work plans of the different divisions. 17 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance The Bank invests significant resources in deployment of the corporate social responsibility concept among employees. In 2018, several activities took place: Corporate social responsibility week In awareness of the growing importance of corporate social Those involved with corporate social responsibility receive responsibility and based on the wish to increase the understanding training focused on this area. of this topic and commitment among employees, the Bank launched The topic of corporate social responsibility is included in courses the Corporate Social Responsibility Week, which offered diverse activities: delivered by the Training Center. Awareness of social ventures: NGO fairs held at three different Communications and information items ( Did you know? ) are locations. At these fairs, various NGOs sold their goods, produced disseminated on corporate social responsibility. and packaged by persons with disabilities. Another NGO took part in this fair, selling vintage clothing and contributing all its As part of the corporate social responsibility week, we held revenues to the community. In total, goods valued at NIS 12,000 different events designed to increase employee awareness were sold at these fairs. of this topic. Volunteer work and contribution to the community: A video was played to employees, showing examples of Bank activity in the community and employees volunteering for diverse activities. Environmental awareness and smart consumer behavior: All Bank employees received an individual gift, cups made of recycled bamboo for hot and cold beverages, in order to raise awareness and to reduce the use of disposable cups at Bank units. Quiz with prizes: Employees were invited to play a social puzzle game, with a quiz on social responsibility at the Bank, based on information presented in the 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report. Prizes bought from different NGOs were awarded to participants. In 2019, we plan activity designed to expand the knowledge in this field and to enhance Bank influence on corporate social responsibility issues. 18 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Commitment To Annual Reporting Publication of the annual corporate social responsibility report reflects Group commitment to act in areas of corporate social responsibility and to report its performance to stakeholders. As it did in previous years, the Group is committed to continue reporting in future, in conformity with directives of the Supervisor of Banks. Reporting is in conformity with accepted international standards in this field. For more about the commitment to annual reporting and about this report, please read below. Committed To International Principles Global Compact Mizrahi-Tefahot Group joined the United Nations Global Compact Initiative in 2015, based on its commitment to further promote corporate social responsibility in the Group and in the financial sector. The Group supports and promotes the Ten Principles of the Initiative. Accordingly, we also report on our progress in implementing these principles. Our membership of the Global Compact reflects our commitment to adopting international standards for social-environmental responsibility in all our endeavors, based on 10 principles which reflect corporate commitment to leading the social-environmental agenda in the country in which it operates and around the world. These principles include: responsible employment, preventing corruption, human rights and environmental protection. As part of Group commitment to the Global Compact principles, this report constitutes periodic Communication On Progress (COP) to the organization. 19 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) In September 2015, the State of Israel, along with 192 UN member states, adopted a resolution to participate in the effort to achieve the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (or SDGs) and the realization of 169 global secondary goals by 2030. The goals address global challenges in three dimensions – society, environment and economics. The UN goals encompass many areas, including eradicating poverty, access to education, gender equality, nutritional security, industry, peace and preservation of life at sea, on land and so forth. Sustainable development goals, based on principles of corporate social responsibility, create a multi-sector, multi-nation framework with a common language that increases the likelihood of their effective, measurable implementation. Mizrahi-Tefahot Group promotes these SDGs through its business and social activity. This is the third year that the Group has reported in its corporate social responsibility Report on the commitment to advancing the UN Development Goals. Moreover, the combination of goals and the link to reporting on the Bank's social and environmental activities reinforce our commitment to sustainable develop as part of our business activities. Moreover, as part of the preparations for reporting on Group activities to achieve these targets, social and environmental targets were set to promote the objectives of the SDGs; these targets, on which the Bank is focused, are highlighted in the table to the left. 20 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Key Targets For 2019 Promoting Achievement Of Sdgs The table below lists the Bank's goals for its various operating segments, linked to the relevant SDGs1 (these goals are part of the Bank's goals for 2019, listed at the end of each chapter in this report). • Co-operation with NGO Pa'amonim to enhance financial education. • Expand the Leading Neighborhood project in Jerusalem. • Continue offering conferences and meetings with business customers on various topics, including foreign trade. • Continue activity to recruit and hire employees with disabilities • Expand recruitment of employees from diverse demographics, according to the geographical distribution of Bank branches. • Deployment and training for managers on appropriate work environment, preventing sexual harassment, preventing abuse and gender equality. • Promote improved energy efficiency, through the Improved Energy Efficiency Fund for businesses. • Further review of efficient utilization of space designed, inter alia, to save energy. • investment in social-oriented debentures. • Continued expansion of the service: Open 3 new branches • Continued expansion of activity in the Arab and Jewish Orthodox sectors, by opening new, designated branches and expanding existing services. • Continued Let us meet at Mizrahi-Tefahot activity in the financial domain, focused on the Arab sector, the Jewish Orthodox sector and retirees ( Let us meet – Sixties ). • Training on environmental risk delivered to relevant employees at the Business Division.. • Replacement of old chillers, with low energy efficiency, at 3 more branches. • Further review of construction of a power station at HQ building in Lod, operated by natural gas. • Installation of Optinergy system for monitoring and control of power used at the HQ building in Lod, received preliminary result and conclusions on this matter. • Further improvement in the compliance culture across the organization. • Continued deployment of the values in the Bank's Code of Ethics, in conformity with the annual work plan, using diverse tools, such as: Conducted ethics meetings for executives and managers across the organization, attended by Ethics Committee representatives; activity to formulate an internal ethics program for various Bank units; analysis of insights gained from the Ethics Week with regard to social media and formulation of recommended rules on proper conduct on social media; formulated proposal for revision of the Code of Ethics, validation of recommendations made for revision of the Code of Ethics would be the basis for 2019 Ethics Day activity. 1. All of the goals listed in this report constitute forward-looking information, as defined in the Securities Law, 1968, based on assumptions, facts and data (hereinafter jointly: assumptions ) brought before the Bank’s Board of Directors. These assumptions may not materialize due to factors which are not entirely under the Bank's control. 21 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance About The Sixth Corporate Social processes, performance against required benchmarks, a description Responsibility Report1 of the dialogue with stakeholders on the topic, as well as future performance goals. In some places, a change has been made This is the sixth Corporate Social Responsibility Report published to how data are measured and presented. Therefore, some data by Mizrahi-Tefahot Group. The report reviews Group activities in there is no comparison provided to previous years. This was stated Israel and overseas in areas of corporate social responsibility in explicitly in a comment. 2018. The report was approved by Group management and by the Most of the information presented in the report is collected regularly Board of Directors plenum. and routinely during the reported year, through the Group's information This review relates to performance of Bank Mizrahi-Tefahot , Bank systems, from various organizational sources and with assistance Yahav and the Group's overseas affiliates in Switzerland, London from external advisors. To this end, the Bank has put in place tools and Los Angeles (hereinafter: the Group ), unless otherwise noted. and means for measurement, monitoring and control based on the However, since the activities of Group companies or of its overseas different activities. Moreover, some data are collected at the end affiliates may differ slightly from those of the Bank, we decided in of the reported period (such as financial performance). Information some places to only refer to Bank Mizrahi-Tefahot. In these places, is presented in this report by comparative analysis for the reported the term the Bank is used. In any event, all Group operations period and presents multi-year trends. overseas are carried out in accordance with principles of Bank policy, and insofar as there are material differences, specific disclosure is Structure of report chapters for reporting provided of the activity and this was specifically stated, particularly on material issues: with regard to Bank Yahav. Performance Achievement Management Organizational Future by Dialogue of Mizrahi-Tefahot Group has been producing a corporate social approach processes benchmarks objectives objectives responsibility report since 2012. Each report covers a year’s worth of activities, as part of a comprehensive program in this area. The management approach at the beginning of each topic also includes Similar to previous reports issued by the Group, this report was the relevant reference from the policy document for implementation of also compiled in conformity with reporting guidelines of the Global corporate social responsibility at Mizrahi-Tefahot Group, which was revised Reporting Initiative (GRI) and it is compliant with the most advanced and approved in April 2017. transparency standard – GRI: SRS In accordance Comprehensive. Accordingly, the report includes all matters identified as material The process of compiling this report was assisted by advisors from the for Group operations: details of the management approach, work Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Group of BDO Consulting. 1.GRI index response 102-40,102-42,102-43,102-44 22 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance The report was externally audited for due diligence by an independent The Process Of Identifying Material Issues third party by the Corporate Social Responsibility Institute. This combination of professional assistance and independent external For The Group2 audit allows the Group to ensure that information presented in this In the process of identifying material issues for Mizrahi-Tefahot report properly reflects Group operations. We are committed to Group, we conducted a survey among major stakeholder groups – make judicious use of response and feedback received from our customers, employees, suppliers and members of the professional stakeholders, to learn from this feedback and to continue to review community, about corporate social responsibility. We also surveyed our performance in these areas. topics of sustainability at 5 banks in Israel and overseas, as made public in their 2017 sustainability reports and in reviews by analysts covering those banks. Identifying Material Issues The survey included various statements taken from the corporate Related To Corporate Social social responsibility domain, on matters identified as important for Bank Responsibility1 activities, based on the materiality matrix for the 2017 report, such as: fair dealing with customers, employee development, safeguarding In preparing for compiling the 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility customer privacy, diversity of customers and sectors and so forth. Report, the Group validated and revised the material issues, in order Survey respondents were asked to rate each topic based on its to better understand the issues that matter for stakeholders and the importance for inclusion in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report. issues most affecting them. Survey questions were rated on a scale from 1 to 5 (where 1 is the This process included a review of the existing list of issues, focusing lowest and 5 is the highest). the list of issues based on surveys and questionnaires from various In calculating the rating across all stakeholders, we assigned different stakeholders and creating a current matrix of issues relevant for weights to each of the stakeholder groups. The weight assigned to the Group operations in areas of corporate social responsibility. ratings by each of the stakeholder groups was based on assessment This process resulted in a current materiality matrix, focused on 18 of the strength of mutual influence between the stakeholders and material issues. the Bank. These are the weights assigned: Bank customers – 30%. Employees – 30%, suppliers – 13%, other banks – 11%, analysts – 11%, professional community – 5%. 1.GRI index response 102-40,102-44,102-46 2. GRI index response 102-40,102-47 23 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Below are highlights of the findings among the stakeholder 3. Survey of supplier opinions with regard to Bank conduct groups: – The Bank is in constant work relationships with suppliers, 1. Opinion survey among the public using services from all hence the importance of understanding their perception and banks, with regard to their conduct – The survey was conducted expectations on matters which, in their opinion, the Bank should among 499 men and women, customers of all banks, asking report from corporate social responsibility aspects. This survey about their opinions with regard to bank activities in the corporate was similar to the customer and employee surveys, and was social responsibility domain. The survey showed that the public conducted among 21 different suppliers of the Bank. The highest saw most of the areas of corporate social responsibility as highly importance was attached to these topics: important for reporting, with the highest importance attached to Contact and conduct with customer (including customer these topics: privacy and information security, customer service and fair Contact and conduct with customer (including customer dealing with customers) – rated 4.7. privacy and information security, customer service and fair Customer service and prevention of corruption – rated 4.5. dealing with customers) – rated 4.4. Bank conduct with suppliers – rated 4.4. Commitment to accountable conduct – rated 4.3. 4. Survey of professional community opinions – The Bank Publication of financial performance of all banks – rated 4.1. surveyed 6 respondents holding key positions in the world of 2. Survey of employee opinion about Bank conduct – A survey corporate social responsibility. The highest importance was similar to the customer survey was administered to 63 Bank attached to these topics: employees in various roles and at various levels. The highest Contact and conduct with customer (including customer importance was attached to these topics: privacy and information security, customer service and fair Contact and conduct with customer (including customer dealing with customers) – rated 5. privacy and information security, customer service and fair Prevention of corruption and publication of financial dealing with customers) – rated 4.8. performance of the Bank – rated 4.7. Prevention of corruption – rated 4.8. Activity to promote disadvantaged populations and persons Commitment to accountable conduct – rated 4.8. with disabilities – rated 4.5. 24 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance The next stage consisted of meetings with Bank management and Material Issues Selected For Reporting1 with the Board of Directors, where surveys were administered and Weighting and cross-referencing the issues has resulted in 18 material stakeholder opinions were presented. issues selected for reporting. These are issues rated highly by Bank At the end of this process, the Bank's opinion was formed as to the management and by the Board of Directors, and also rated as important importance of each material topic, to create the current materiality by external stakeholders, listed in the top right quarter of the matrix. The matrix. The outcome of this stage was a list of material issues for matrix shows that the topic of Contact and conduct with customers Group operations. was rated high by all stakeholders; the high importance of the topic Prevention of corruption was a recurring theme across all groups. There are also differences in the materiality rating from year to year – some of the material topics rated high in 2018 received a different rating in 2017. For example – the topic of Bank conduct with suppliers (responsible procurement), which was rated last in 2017, was ranked 13th in 2018. Another example is the topic Diversity, equal opportunity and avoiding hiring discrimination , which in 2017 consisted of 3 separate topics, ranked 14th-17th, was consolidated and ranked 7th in 2018. On the other hand, topics such as Publication of financial performance , which ranked 8th in 2017, dropped to 17th in 2018, as did the topic Diversity of customers and sectors , which ranked 5th in 2017 and dropped to 18th in 2018. It is evident that different topics are rated differently by different stakeholder groups based on what matters most to each group, and over time, the areas of corporate social responsibility evolve and are rated differently by the public. 1. GRI index response 102-47 25 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance 2018 ‫מטריצת מהותיות בנק מזרחי טפחות‬ 5.00 Equal opportunity employment Anti-corruption Promoting under-privileged populations Customer privacy 4.50 Social and environmental products Importance For Stakholders Financial education Supplier relations 4.00 Financial performance Fairness Environmental management Human rights Community relations Customer service 3.50 Diversity of customers and sectors Employment terms Environmental risk management Accountable conduct 3.00 Staff training and development 2.50 2.50 3.00 3.50 4.00 4.50 5.00 Importance For Bank Mizrahi-Tefahot 26 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Material issues related to corporate social responsibility 2018 Place Material Material aspects SDG in aspects General explanation Report chapter GRI indices Reporting limits GRI Report topic identified goals table identified Commitment to Commitment to Within the 1 5 Anti-corruption 205 16 Anti-Corruption preventing corruption accountable conduct organization Commitment to accountable Commitment to Within the 2 5 Accountable conduct 419 16 Socio-Economic Compliance conduct (including compliance issues) accountable conduct organization Investing in Inside and outside 3 4.83 Customer service Customer servicecompliance issues) customers the organization Investing in Inside and outside 4 4.83 Fairness Fair dealing with customers 417 Marketing and Labeling customers the organization Safeguarding customer Investing in Within the 5 4.67 Customer privacy 418 Customer Privacy privacy and information security customers organization Staff training Investing in Within the 6 4.50 Staff training and development 404 Training and Education and development employees organization Equal opportunity Diversity, equal opportunity Investing in Within the Diversity and Equal Opportunity 7 4.33 405,406 8,10 employment and avoiding hiring discrimination employees organization Non-Discrimination Investing in the Inside and outside 8 3.83 Community relations Bank activity in the communitysecurity 413 1,4,10 Local Communities community the organization Social and Development of products and services to Investing in Within the 9 3.67 G4-FS6-8 1,10 Sector Specific Aspect environmental products support social or environmental causes customers organization Employment Employment terms at the Bank (including Investing in Within the 10 3.67 Employment terms 401,402,403 8 Labor – Management Relations management-employee relations) employees organization Bank activity in the community Activity to promote disadvantaged Promoting underInvesting in Within the 11 3.56 populations and persons with G4-FS13-14 10 Sector Specific Aspect privileged populations customers organization disabilitiessocial or environmental causes Safeguarding human rights in Bank Investing in the Inside and outside 12 3.5 Human rights 412 8 Human Rights Assessment operations community the organization 27 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Material issues related to corporate social responsibility 2018 Place Material Material aspects SDG in aspects General explanation Report chapter GRI indices Reporting limits GRI Report topic identified goals table identified Procurement Practices Labor – Management Relations Investing in the Inside and outside 13 3.33 Supplier relations Bank conduct with suppliers 204,412 8 Activity to promote community the organization disadvantaged populations and persons with disabilities Incorporating environmental and social Environmental Commitment to Inside and outside 14 3.33 considerations in lending and investment G4-FS9 9,13 Sector Specific Aspect risk management accountable conduct the organization considerations Promoting financial Investing in the Inside and outside 15 3.00 Promoting proper financial conduct G4-FS16 1,10 Marketing and Labeling literacy community the organization Materials Environmental Reduce consumption of materials at the Investing in the Within the 16 3.00 301,302,305 13 Energy management Bank environment organization Emissions Publication of the Bank's financial Economic Performance Inside and outside 17 2.83 Financial performance performance (including indirect economic Introduction 201,203 8,9,13 the organization impact) Indirect Economic Impacts Diversity of customers Investing in Within the 18 2.83 Diversity of customers and sectors Sector Specific Aspect and sectors customers organization 28 Investing In Customers 29 1 st Promoting start-ups in Israel Investing in Customers 10 branches specialized in service Ranked for high-tech companies and the Overview mortgages development thereof according to Bank of Israel data 29,000 6 Opened new points of sale customers and of which 3 in Arab towns potential customers 8.8 10 took part in customer surveys during 2018 out of The level of customer 1.7 satisfaction with the bankers is the highest among the top over 5 banks. (According to survey NIS conducted by Brandman Institution) billion in total lending for social and environmental causes NIS billion 194 Total loans to the public 7% year-over-year growth compared to 2017 30 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Our Mizrahi-Tefahot Group is committed to success of all its customers, acting to generate value for them over time in all of its operating segments. This commitment Customers is reflected by fair conduct and by creating a range of channels for providing service and products customized to the needs of every customer. It also requires listening to customer needs, preserving their privacy and a commitment to providing professional tools for customer success. This topic is handled by different divisions at the Bank, each in its own aspects, primarily by the Retail, Business and Marketing Divisions. Customers From Various Supervisory Operating Segments Medium businesses – businesses with turnover higher than The Group serves customers in different operating segments, in NIS 50 million and lower than NIS 250 million conformity with the definitions of the Supervisor of Banks. Attribution Large businesses – businesses with turnover higher than NIS to operating segments is usually determined according to customer 250 million. turnover (annual sales or revenues). Institutional investors – Provident funds, pension funds, study Supervisory operating segments are as follows: funds, mutual funds, ETFs, insurance companies and stock Households – individuals, other than private banking customers exchange members who manage customer portfolios Private banking – individuals who manage a financial asset Financial management – includes trading operations, asset portfolio in excess of NIS 3 million at the Bank and liability management and non-banking investments. Small and micro businesses – businesses with turnover. Overseas operations – presented separately from operations amounting up to NIS 50 million. in Israel, divided into individuals and business operations 31 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Key Products Offered By The Bank’s Different Operating Segments Banking and finance – An array of banking services offered to private and corporate customers, including management of !‫חדש‬ checking accounts, provision of a current loan account, different ‫פים˜ריבי„ון ˙פוז‬ ‫פיקדון שיא ע‬ kinds of credit and guarantees, receiving deposits, foreign trade ‫ת מעולה ש‬ !‫קופצת ועולה‬ activities (imports, exports, documentary credit, etc.), trading in derivative instruments, including trading in currencies and interest ‫מנהסוזי טובי‬ rates, etc. ‫ לקוחות‬-‫חי‬ ‫מזר טפחות‬ ‫לת‬ Capital market – security transactions for customers on stock exchanges in Israel and overseas, provident fund and mutual fund ‫בריבית מעו‬ ‫כל זמן שתרצו וליהנות מ לה ותוכלו למ‬ ‫ב מפיקדון תפוז‬ ‫בואו ליהנות‬ ‫את‬ ‫שוך‬ operating services and mutual fund operation and distribution, ‫סף‬ ‫הכ‬ ‫הריב‬ .‫ית שצברתם‬ ‫רטים נוספים‬ ‫לפ‬ ‫חי‬ *8860 ‫יגו‬ ‫סכום‬ ‫נותהפקדה מ‬ which are among investment tracks available to Bank customers. 00 :‫ינימאלי‬ ‫לש את‬ ‫ סכום‬.₪ 50,0‫חייב במס התנאים בכל עת ו‬ ‫הפקדה מקסי‬ ‫ ללא הו‬15% ‫בשיעור של‬ 00,000 :‫ פרטימלי‬.‫דעה מוקדמת‬ ‫מס לי‬ ‫עת‬ ‫בכל‬ ‫ משיכה‬.₪ 10,0 ‫מחיי‬ ‫ה‬ ‫חיד )שינוי המס כפוף ההצעה‬ ‫בהת‬ ‫בים‬ ‫ל‬ ‫ הינם בהתאם לתנאי ראה מראש‬.(‫שינויים על פי דין‬ ‫ ה‬.‫ יום‬35 ‫של‬ ‫בנק רשאי‬.‫הם‬ ‫הפיקדונות‬ ‫ובכפוף אלי‬ – ‫מיסוי‬ Credit cards – All financial products and banking services provided in conjunction with credit cards issued to Bank customers by credit card companies in Israel. Mortgages – Housing loans secured by charges on a residence, out of the Bank’s funds and within the framework of government aid programs. Construction and real estate – banking operations vis-à-vis companies in the real estate sector, as well as unique banking services for the real estate sector, including the financing of real estate products by the closed financing method. The Group does not offer nor sell financial products and services that have been banned or prohibited. 32 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Loans To The Public By Supervisory Loans to the public by supervisory Operating Segment (Net, NIS In Millions) operating segment (NET in %) 1% 2% 8% Operating segment 2017 2018 Change in % 3% Households – hous10% 119,559 126,105 5.5% ing loans 0% Households – other 19,824 20,932 5.6% 65% 11% Private banking 117 98 -16.2% Total – individuals 139,500 147,135 5.5% Small and micro 16,717 18,977 13.5% Households housing loans Medium businesses businesses Households other Large businesses Private banking Institutional investors Medium businesses 5,779 6,585 13.9% Micro and small businesses Overseas operations Large businesses 14,833 16,236 9.5% Institutional inves1,166 1,331 14.2% tors Total – business 38,495 43,129 12.0% operations Overseas operations 3,123 4,117 31.8% Total 181,118 194,381 7.3% 33 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Wide Banking The basis for making services accessible to the general public is through Group branches deployed nationwide. Branches are Distribution primarily aimed at providing professional, high-quality service to customers of all banking segments, close to the location where the service is required (residence or place of business). The merger of United Mizrahi Bank and Bank Tefahot in early 2005, the merger with Bank Adanim in 2009 and the acquisition of Bank Yahav completed in 2008 – all created an extensive nationwide branch network. Moreover, the Bank’s unique growth strategy is reflected in consistent growth in the number of branches providing solutions for diverse segments. Along with this extensive presence, the Bank provides services through other channels, in the form of Hybrid Banking services. The Bank continues to expand its branch network in accordance with its service locations every year. In 2018, the Bank Group opened 6 new strategic plan, with location selection based on considerations such as points of sale, of which 3 are Bank Yahav branches offering partial providing optimal service to customers, economic viability considerations service, and relocated several others to better geographic locations, etc. Along with this extensive presence, the Bank provides services following the mapping of bank customer needs and in order to improve through other channels, in the form of Hybrid Banking services. As of service to customers and expand future recruitment activity. In 2019, the end of 2018, the Group has 193 service locations nationwide, the Bank is expected to open 3 more points of service and sale. Some including business centers, branches and affiliates of the places where new branches were opened in 2015-2018: Sderot, High-quality professional service provided across all banking areas, Migdal HaEmek, Kfar Kassem, Baqa Al Gharbiya, Agripas Street in close to where customers are located (place of residence or business) Jerusalem, Harish, Ramot, Netanya Soho, Um El Fahem, Kfar Yassif, – this is a key component of nationwide branch operations. In order to Shefaram and Sachnin. expand services and availability to customers, the Group opens new All Bank branches offer full cashier service; most Bank branches also 34 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance offer financial and retirement savings advice customized for customer needs, provided by a qualified advisor. All Yahav branches offer queueLIVE Branches replacement services and some offer full cash services. In addition to the regional branch network, the Bank operates 6 “Live” branches, offering banking services to customers by using advanced 234 Self-service stations – As at the end of 2018, customers may use technology, rather than in person, during extended business hours: 234 self-service stations, of which 76 at Bank Yahav. These stations 7am to 8pm. allow for a range of transactions to be conducted and information to be obtained by self-service. Most of these stations are available 24 Each customer is assigned their own personal banker, who is constantly hours a day, even when the branch is closed. available through various channels: Direct phone line to the banker and secure correspondence by SMS, email and fax. In cases where At all Bank branches, checks may be deposited at service stations and the customer is required to attend the branch in person, service can be at 47 branches, check books may be immediately printed. provided at any physical branch of the customer’s choice. Furthermore, 203 ATMs – At the end of 2018, the Group had 203 ATMs, including customers may use a courier service (at no charge, up to three times 51 at Bank Yahav. per year) – saving them the need to get to the branch to collect credit cards, checkbooks etc. Channels for provision of banking services Potential customers who open an account with the Bank online are 300 referred directly to the LIVE branches. 245 250 251 250 229 234 200 177 184 187 193 48 48 48 48 203 210 212 64 76 ₪ 49 61 63 45 45 46 150 100 197 202 203 181 147 148 158 142 50 0 132 139 141 144 ₪ 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 Service locations ATMs Self-service stations Mizrahi-Tefahot (including overseas affiliates) Yahav Total 35 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Customer The Bank is working to provide high-quality personal service to all customers. To this end, the Bank is committed to conduct itself fairly vis-à-vis customers, Experience to create a variety of channels for them for obtaining service, and to develop banking products suited to customer needs, while ensuring customer privacy And Service and attentiveness to customer needs. Bank customers are a key pillar of Bank success; hence the Bank attach great Quality importance to ensuring customer satisfaction, with a professional response to their needs. The Bank also strives to create an optimal customer experience, providing knowledge for informed use of banking and financial tools. The Bank’s strategic plan is based on personal, human, professional service integrated with advanced technology. These guidelines are a vital key component of customer operations at the Bank. Optimal customer experience and service quality are achieved in various ways: Adapting products and services to the customer – adapting products Customer satisfaction – The Bank monitors and controls customer and services to the business environment and to customer needs satisfaction and response to inquiries and complaints. and making them more accessible to customers and to the general Avoiding discrimination – The Bank acts to avoid discrimination, public, with understanding of the unique attributes of customers in which effort is reflected in equality in customer recruitment, allowing different segments of Israeli society. any person to become a Bank customer, and in providing equal Dialogue and listening – conducting a constant, on-going dialogue service absent of any discrimination to all employees. with customers is a key tool, at the heart of the concept, allowing Handling customer inquiries – The Bank regularly measures for a successful implementation of the concept. The Bank conducts customer complaints and contacts, reviews the cases, learns lessons public opinion surveys, monitors the online discourse and operates and acts as needed. The Bank has an improved system designed to a website and a Facebook page for gathering customer feedback. improve analysis and composition by topic, classification and customer contacts with the department. 36 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Products And Services To Promote The Customer Experience The Group offers a range of financial products and services, including deposits and savings channels, as well as special benefits, according to needs of its different customers, their financial situation, their different life stages and the unique needs of different demographics. The process of adapting the product to needs of a specific customer segment is based on information received from bankers in the field, who reflect customer needs and from surveys, research and analysis conducted by professionals in the Group and in the Israeli finance Aligning Products With The Business sector. In accordance with the Group’s master policy, any new product Sector development is also reviewed in light of the Code of Ethics. After In the business sector, where financial management is complex and studying the needs, the Group forms a product in response to the has unique attributes – the presence of a human, personal banker, relevant segment’s need. which is a highly important and valuable factor for business owners, results in an outstanding service experience. Aligning Products With Economic Reality Mizrahi-Tefahot’s hybrid banking uses all of the digital channels, in In 2018, the Bank continued development of deposit products adapted order to allow customers to have direct and available contact with their to customer needs, in the current economic reality where interest rates personal banker, who knows the business and its owner and provides remain low and where the average individual customer wishes to invest an important professional anchor for them. Business bankers are their money so as to ensure their financial liquidity frequently. Here are available to customers through all communication channels, managed some examples: under the unique Hybrid Banking umbrella. “Orange” deposit – allows customers to invest for the medium term, In addition to the extensive professional infrastructure created by the while allowing early withdrawal when needed. Bank for the business sector and to professional business bankers “Pineapple” deposit – offering customers a high return. At the same determined to act in the customer’s best interest, the Bank has developed time, this deposit keeps funds available daily, after three years have direct banking tools and customized products, that provide added value elapsed, if needed by the customer. for business customers: 37 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance In November 2018, the Bank was awarded a tender to provide loans Aligning Products With High-Tech guaranteed by the State to businesses engaging in improvement Industries of energy efficiency. This is an attractive credit offer, which allows businesses to evolve and progress. At the Bank, the business is Israel’s high-tech industry is growing at a rapid pace. This also assisted by professional bankers all the way to the actual loan sector has significant potential for banking activity in diverse areas, both for origination. This activity would materialize in 2019, when businesses business customers and for individual customers employed in this sector. may actually send applications to the fund. As part of its core strategic plan, the Bank expands its activity among business customers in the high-tech sector (including start-up companies), “Mortgage for businesses” – An innovative product offered by the through the High-tech Department in the Corporate Sector of the Business Bank, which helps the business owner in acquiring a property for Division, as well as through ten branches nationwide specialized in serving their current operations, in lieu of leasing. The loan is repaid over high-tech customers. Each year, hundreds of start-ups are created, and many years. the Bank offers diverse financing options appropriate for such companies The Bank offers advanced solutions for business customers for foreign throughout their life cycle. The Bank also provides financing to start-ups in trade. the growth stage, through a unique model in the banking system, designed to promote entrepreneurship and innovation in the Israeli economy and to The Bank offers its business customers to study at the Business assist in the success of these companies. College, in co-operation with the Israeli Management Center (“MIL”). Real Estate Retail Credit Department The Bank’s High-tech department, Wishing to provide a fast, professional response and handling of established as early as 2000, has specialized over the years credit applications from small businesses, small purchase groups in financing for start-ups using the Venture Lending model, and small development projects, including urban renewal projects whereby the Bank extends credit for a term of several years and (under TAMA 38), the Bank has created a new department of also receives stock options in these companies. The Bank is its mortgages arm, designated to serve these customers. The active and provides financing to start-ups in various segments, department is also responsible for lending in Kibbutzim and for including: communications, software, medical equipment, AdTech, establishing and expanding these operations. This includes automotive, cyber, SportTech, FinTech and others. use of the Association alternative, Kedem agreement (religious Kibbutz movement) and more. 38 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Get Your Mortgage From The provide customers with optimal service and to assist them in obtaining Experts At Tefahot a mortgage. Even after the loan is extended to customers, the Bank continues to assist them throughout the term of the mortgage by offering Being the largest and leading mortgage bank in Israel, with more than other products and services that may provide a solution for other needs a million mortgages extended over decades, Mizrahi-Tefahot is acting they may have. to retain its leadership position in this market. The Bank strives to align its financial solutions for its customers and for the Israeli public, so as to allow them to balance their needs and financial abilities over the short and long term. As opposed to the trend in Israeli banking, the Bank’s service concept calls for opening new branches and expanding mortgage points of ‫שנה‬ !‫טובה‬ 1‫במשכנתאות‬ ‫יותר ממיליון לקוחות בחרו במומחים‬ ‫טפחותמס׳‬ sale. At the end of 2018, the Bank had 137 mortgage points of sale, including representatives at the Bank Group. This is the widest network *8860 in Israel, in outlying areas as well. The mortgage points of sale network allows anyone in Israel convenient access to meet and consult with an expert banker at their branch. Based on the understanding that buying a home is a significant, exciting step for customers – and in particular for young couples, who mostly lack financial knowledge – and given that taking this step involves feelings of uncertainty, the Bank strives to provide its customers with the knowledge required to select the ideal track for them. The Bank assists customers from the stage of initial interest in purchasing a property, through completion of the process and taking delivery of the property (this duration may vary by customer circumstances, from several weeks to several months). Furthermore, Mizrahi-Tefahot mortgage bankers are professional, with extensive experience and often resident in the location where the branch operates. These facts allow the Bank to 39 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance To maintain the Bank’s branding as a leader in this field, surveys for the credit facility itself. Moreover, credit repayment is made over are regularly conducted among current and potential customers, in many years, together with the monthly mortgage payment. order to better understand the customer needs and to improve work “Grapes mortgage” – A special savings plan for Bank customers procedures and the service provided. The high satisfaction level of with a mortgage. This is a savings plan by monthly deposits for a mortgage customers is reflected in the fact that often, the children of 13-year term. Those saving in this plan would be entitled to future our mortgage customers also take out a mortgage at the Bank. A 2018 benefits when taking out a mortgage. Furthermore, customers who survey conducted by the Supervisor of Banks in Israel showed that the take out a new mortgage may receive a bonus from the Bank upon percentage of mortgage customers of Mizrahi-Tefahot who recommend making their first deposit. it is the highest compared to other banks over the years. Paying the mortgage file opening fee by installments – In order to The Bank’s Mortgage Center (call center specialized in mortgages) is make it easier for customers to handle their expenses when taking out the largest of its kind in Israel, staffed by professional bankers available a mortgage, the Bank offers optional payment of the loan origination to provide approval in principle for mortgage applications within a few fee in installments payable together with the mortgage payments with hours. Even after the mortgage has been extended, the Bank continues no interest or linkage, rather than by a single payment. This option to be available and attentive: the Bank provides service to customers provides relief to customers who take out a mortgage. who wish to change the date of their monthly mortgage payment, replace a guarantor, make changes to their payment schedule due to “Mortgage on hold” – This product allows the customer to occasionally financial difficulties, repay their mortgage ahead of time and so forth. put their mortgage payments on hold, in order to make life easier for them in periods when expenses are higher or income is lower. In this The Bank offers a diverse range of complementary products and way, the Bank makes it easier for the customer, giving them control services for mortgages, to offer to each customer the optimal product over managing the mortgage and adapting it to their changing needs. for them, wishing to enable more customers to obtain a mortgage, while enhancing and promoting the use of direct channels. Services for those eligible for Ministry of Construction and Housing Assistance Program – Beyond the banking activity of granting credit, The Bank offers the following services, inter alia: the Bank acts as an extension of the State in servicing eligible Ministry Tefahot Credit Card – In 2006, the Bank launched a special credit of Construction and Housing recipients. These services include loans card for mortgage holders. Holders of this credit card benefit from a within the Ministry of Construction and Housing’s assistance programs, large credit limit (NIS 150,000), at interest rates more attractive than including location-based loans and contingent grants and loans for market interest rates. This product has a significant advantage, in specific populations (such as: new immigrants, persons with limited that the customer only pays interest for their actual utilization and not mobility etc.) In the loans area, the Bank is involved, in addition to 40 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance the ordinary banking services, in the array of administrative aspects Mortgage advisors – In recent years, mortgage advice has grown required for services to Ministry of Housing and Construction eligible significantly, as did the number of advisors. Any customer who so participants, such as issuance of eligibility certificates. Note that wishes may ask to be represented by a mortgage advisor. The Bank Bank Mizrahi-Tefahot is a key player in eligibility loan origination, has working relations with mortgage advisors, maintaining constant and thanks to the Bank’s extensive branch network, it is accessible contact with them, including round table meetings with advisors, to those eligible for Ministry of Housing programs. conferences and individual meetings, as part of the Bank’s open door Promoting financial education with regard to mortgages – Mizrahipolicy. Tefahot, being the leading mortgage bank, believes it is the Bank’s responsibility to promote knowledge in this area and to help various demographics to buy properties. To this end, the Bank offers a range Diverse Service Channels of activities for customers of all banks. In 2018, the Bank offered the Although the bankers in the branches are the main following activities: communication channel with customers, the Group also “Let us meet for mortgages” – These activities are open to maintains other channels, including: Call centers, email for inquiries, the public and are aligned with specific audiences (such as for dedicated websites, apps, social media, conferences and workshops. the Jewish Orthodox sector, with a large percentage of young At the end of 2018, Bank customers receive banking services through customers who buy a home). In order to deliver this content, diverse key channels, under the unique Hybrid Banking method – whereby a dedicated team of bankers received training and branches each customer has a banker at the branch, but may also elect to receive were opened in order to provide a more accurate response to service through various online channels. Hybrid Banking is an optimal the population of mortgage seekers. In addition, working with combination of personal and digital banking, allowing all customers a personal banker provides an address for customer inquiries direct access to their personal banker at the branch by using a range of at the Bank, on any matter. communication channels. This unique, innovative service concept puts to Dedicated conferences – The Bank holds conferences and use technological advances in the banking world, to create an immediate, promotes activities on social media for a range of investors, direct link between the customer and their personal banker at the branch. including for purchase groups, “Resident Pricing” buyers, real This concept is also applied to the mortgage segment. estate players and foreign residents, providing to each of these audiences the information relevant for how they invest. 41 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Use Of Advanced Systems co-operation with the MADLAN content website. Customers with a checking account and a mortgage from Mizrahi-Tefahot In order to provide customers with the best possible service experience, can view their entire finances on a single website. customized for their needs, Bank employees use advanced technological systems and tools, such as the CRM system and the “Banker’s personal Capital market website – The website provides extensive, task list”. In these systems, all information about the customer and current information about financial assets and has been upgraded communication with them is centrally documented, so as to ensure so as to allow customers to efficiently conduct transactions on ongoing monitoring and maintenance of service continuity. Communication their own – along with an option to contact a banker or advisor. allows for face-to-face meetings, in telephone calls, in voice messages, The website is a unique, innovative venue, customized for needs in inquiries from branch staff, or from a customer investigation to the of retail customers as well as professional customers – who bank, by secure mail and by text messages. trade on the capital market. The website also offers a range of innovative tools which support customer activity in the capital Online Communication Channels market. Bank website – a technologically advanced, functional and professional The “Card” club – The website for Mizrahi-Tefahot credit website that combines means to contact a personal, human and club customer loyalty club, providing all information about club professional banker. This website is the Bank’s display window for activities, with quick and convenient access to benefits and both Bank customers and those wishing to join the Bank. The website promotions selected by the visitor. offers do-it-yourself information about all Bank products and services, “Let us meet” at Mizrahi-Tefahot website – Lists upcoming allows you to contact a banker, advisor or the Investment Center, as activities planned at branches and offers enrollment for the needed, by various means – leaving your information, chat or by getting various activities. a phone call. The Bank website provides an umbrella for secondary websites for specific areas or populations, such as – websites in other languages (English and Arabic), website for “Let us meet” activities and website for the “Card” club benefits. Mortgages – Offers extensive content and added value to visitors to this website. This part offers mortgage customers at the Bank extensive information about their mortgage, as well as diverse information about the property environs, based on 42 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance In 2018, the various tools were added to the transaction website, Apps – Mizrahi-Tefahot Group has developed a range of diverse based on needs raised by customers, users and feedback gleaned apps designed to allow customers quick and convenient access there from, to improve the user experience: to all financial products and services offered by the Group, at their New website interface for making wire transfers, with simple convenience: and convenient management of beneficiaries and specification Mizrahi-Tefahot app – The app allows customers to manage of a fixed beneficiary. their account using their cell phone from anywhere, to obtain Transfers in foreign currency with an option to authorize such information and to conduct a range of transactions on their transfers based on the signatory composition specified in the cell phone, with no need to visit the branch nor to use the PC. account. This app also has an option to correspond with a banker or investment advisor. Information about guarantees in the account. “Tefahot to Home” app – The most advanced mortgage app Extended time frame for presenting account balances and in Israel allows you to design a plan to finance the purchase of transactions up to one year back, along with an option to retrieve a property, providing practical tools and extensive information checking account transactions older than one year. about the surroundings, in cooperation with the MADLAN website. Upgrade of direct tools providing a custom solution for business Users may use the app to correspond with a personal banker, customers on the Bank website. a mortgage specialist available to answer any question and to resolve any doubt with regard to the mortgage process. Expanded chat capabilities for account opening. Option to receive an immediate call back from a mortgage expert, by pressing the Call Me button. ‫בסניף עיר ימים‬ ‫הבחירה שלכם‬ Option to submit a digital mortgage application, with approval ‫לדים‬ ‫לאים‬ ‫מ פעיל‬ ‫תאיםות לי‬7 ‫ ומ לגי‬4-‫ל‬ ‫יווי חויי‬ ‫יםבת‬ ‫הור‬ in principle received within 3 hours. ?‫משכנתא‬ ‫הנחשבת פורצת דרך‬ ‫חצוז״לצרה‬ ‫הבידור של דודו טופז‬ :‫במופע לילדים‬ :‫צל צבעי המוזיקה‬ ‫בתוכניתותה וה‬ ‫״שלישיית‬ ‫חצוצרנית ר‬ ‫עצים‬ ...‫שקט‬ ‫ ושירים״‬...‫ילים‬ ...‫מעםתייכולם‬ ‫סניף עיר ימים‬ ‫ נתניה‬,2 ‫ בני ברמן‬8 ‫יום שלישי‬ “Let us meet” website: Launch a survey for visitors, to select 17:00 ‫ | בשעה‬4.9.1 ‫ההרשמה‬ ‫ מספר‬,‫מראש‬ ‫המקומות מוגבל‬ ‫הרשמה ולפרטים‬ ‫ל‬ ‫מחליטים עם‬ :‫נוספים היכנסו לאתר‬ www.mizra hi-tefahot.c ‫פתוחה ללקוחות כל‬ o.il ‫שתתפות בפעילויות‬ ‫הה‬ ‫ה מחים‬ ‫הבנקים וללא עלות‬ their preferred activities. ‫שלמוטפחות‬ ‫*התוכנית ניתנת לשינויים‬ ‫ אם נדרשת לך‬.‫ח‬.‫ל‬.‫ט‬ The “Card” club website for businesses: New website launched ‫התאמת נגישות אנא‬ ‫פנה אלינו דרך “צור‬ ‫קשר” באתר “נפגשים‬ ‫טפחות” עד‬-‫במזרחי‬ ‫שבועיים לפני הפעילות‬ ‫ונעשה כל מאמץ לסייע‬ .‫בהתאם לאפשרויות‬ for the loyalty club, targeting business customers and offering ‫שעזרו ליותר ממיליון‬ :‫ ממתינים לכם‬,‫ להם‬,‫המומחים של טפחות‬ ‫וחות להגיע לבית מש‬ ‫בסניף‬ ‫לק‬ custom promotions. ‫בטלפון‬ ‫בדיגיטל‬ *8860 43 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Capital market app – This app rounds up the trading experience Receiving current banking information by fax about the customer and provides maximum convenience to our customers who are account on a range of subjects, at the frequency specified by active in the capital market. The app is dedicated to the capital the customer. market, which allows customers to benefit from the online usage Receive updates on the progress of the mortgage application experience and use of decision-support tools customized for a process at any time, by email and SMS, through the GPS mobile device. This app provides extensive information about Tefahot service. the market and about securities from Israel or from overseas, in addition to the customer’s own information, listing instructions Chat with mortgage banker and investment banker. given and carried out for both buy and sell transactions, as well Correspond with a banker using the message box. as correspondence with their personal banker and with their investment advisor. Digital mortgage application form – Innovative product – MizrahiTefahot has developed an option allowing customers interested in a mortgage to quickly and easily submit an application for approval in principle on the Bank website, with approval in principle of their application provided within 24 hours. Other channels for obtaining information from the Bank and for conducting transactions – In addition to the channels described above, Bank customers also have the following options: Conduct transactions without a representative, using IVR by telephone, 24 hours a day. Receiving real-time updates via cell phone. Direct connection to the Bank’s computer, not through the Internet, and consequently – faster execution of transactions on your home PC. 44 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Promoting Dialogue And Listening – Customer Opinion Surveys Our Way Of Understanding The The Group also contacts customers through surveys using text messages, Needs Of Our Customers product-related surveys and satisfaction surveys. Customers who are not satisfied are handled by the branch manager. In 2018, 29,000 According to the Bank, personal, human banking means, first of all, customers and potential customers took part in customer surveys. seeing the customer and understanding their needs well. The variety of platforms used by the Bank for regular communication with customers – including meetings, focus groups, conferences and surveys – allows the Bank to be successful, to be constantly kept current and to remain relevant to customers. Bank Mizrahi-Tefahot is the only major bank that continues to open branches, expand its workforce, and provide personal, human service, so that dialogue and direct communication between bankers and customers are maintained and reinforced. Bank initiatives to promote dialogue in 2018: Meeting In The Living Room From time to time, the Bank conducts focus groups meetings with customers. Some of the focus groups apply NLP (or Neuro Linguistic Programming). In this methodology, the meeting with the audience simulates a casual living-room conversation, or a meeting without any barriers in a host home – which allows for an open, intimate conversation and an optimal connection with participants which removes any barriers. A Bank team is present at the meeting but does not take an active role – and only identifies as such and takes part in the conversation in the last part of the meeting. This methodology allows the creation of a direct link with consumers and customers, in order to better understand their needs. In 2018, 12 focus groups were held, of which 10 using NLP, attended by 100 customers. 45 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Orienting Ourselves To The Online Customer Business Customers In recent years, use of the Internet, social networks and blogs as a In addition to regular contact and meetings of Corporate Division employees means of communication between customers and service providers and managers with customers, meetings and conferences for business has increased. Consequently, Bank Mizrahi-Tefahot and Bank Yahav customers are held in various regions and branches, to which Bank customers offer a website and a Facebook page where answers may be found and potential customers are invited. The objective of these meetings is to on various topics. The Bank invests significant effort in monitoring and provide enrichment in relevant content domains, to expose Bank products responding to the discourse in cyberspace about its services, so as to appropriate for the target audience and to allow attendees to network. learn from customer responses and to improve: In 2018, a large conference was held for 1,400 current and potential To better understand how customers view us – a real-time reference customers in the Business Division, and another conference was to statements in various social networks that relate to Group activity, held for active customers of the Bank’s trading room in the Financial helps gain insights about current or potential customers and how Division and Business Division, attended by 800 customers. These they perceive the Bank and the products and services it offers. conferences are intended for customers of the Corporate Sector, Real Improving learning processes – The use of social networks requires Estate Sector, Business Sector and their spouses. the ability to debrief service situations, learn lessons and provide a “Let us meet on the international court – World Cup football games” service response within short time periods. Often, a quick response – Further to the media campaign for businesses, which included sportsto a dis-satisfied customer on the social network, after conducting related messages, during the 2018 World Cup football games, meetings a professional debrief, can significantly improve the customer’s were held at Bank business centers with business customers who came feeling and trust. This understanding requires short, high-quality to enjoy watching together select World Cup matches. These meetings learning processes as well as the ability to maintain effective internal were attended by 580 participants. communications, that will provide an optimal solution for the customer The Bank also holds a series of business courses (on digital marketing, in the shortest possible time. eCommerce, negotiations, sales and finance) as part of the Mizrahi-Tefahot Reviewing success of marketing campaigns – Public responses “Business College”, in cooperation with the Israeli Management Center and online discourse allow us to review the impact and success of (“MIL”); in 2018, these were attended by 150 business managers and marketing campaigns, in addition to regular surveys used to review owners. Senior staff of the Business Division took part and gave lectures effectiveness. in professional conferences targeted at specific customer segments (such as: real estate, mid-size customers and high-tech) and the Bank sponsored major conferences organized by the CFO Association in 2018. 46 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Keeping In Touch Enhancing Customer Satisfaction Through a dedicated online newsletter, the Bank regularly informs customers from various sectors, provides a quarterly macro-economic overview, offers Satisfaction Surveys a variety of new financial benefits and services, and keeps customers In order to assess customer satisfaction and to maintain high customer interested through various content articles. satisfaction, the Bank uses focus groups and conducts regular surveys, including satisfaction surveys, image surveys, interest surveys, customer experience surveys with regard to the contract process and so forth. Based on findings from these surveys and focus groups, the Bank adapts its conduct vis-a-vis customers. A customer satisfaction survey conducted by the Brandman Institute for 2018 shows that customer satisfaction with our bankers continues to be very high and stable over time. In 2018, too, satisfaction with their ,‫בעל עסק‬ ‫ תבדוק את‬,‫מנהל כספים‬ bankers remained at 8.8. ‫הפורמולה‬ ‫לעשל מסקים‬ Satisfaction with the banker 8.9 8.9 8.9 8.9 8.8 8.8 8.8 8.8 ‫טפחות‬-‫זרחי‬ ‫ר‬ 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 47 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance The Bank is also rated highly by its customers (8.5 out of 10) for the following: Satisfaction Also From Mizrahi-Tefahot’s Bankers are happy to provide service Loyalty Club – “The Card” Club Bankers at the branch treat you fairly One way for the Bank to benefit its customers is through membership in the Positive atmosphere at the branch “Card” club. This club offers its members banking and consumer benefits, allowing them to save tens and hundreds of shekels in current household expenses. Throughout the year, the club offers regular discounts along with Customer satisfaction survey conducted by the Supervisor of Banks periodic attractive promotions in a wide range of store chains and businesses – In 2018, the Bank of Israel first conducted a customer satisfaction survey in different sectors. In 2018, hundreds of thousands of transactions were among customers of all banks, which measured their satisfaction with conducted by club members in businesses operating in co-operation with service they receive at the bank where they have their accounts. This the club, and over 90 thousand bonus coupons were downloaded by club survey found that Bank Mizrahi-Tefahot customers are satisfied with direct members for various promotions throughout the year. In 2018, we put in and digital services offered to them, and the Bank is rated well ahead of place the infrastructure to launch club activity with business customers of the other banks. the Bank as well; this activity would be reflected in 2019. 90% 85% 80% 70% 68.8% 65% 64% 60% 53.3% 50% 47.4% 40% 30% 20% 10% 0% Client satisfaction with Client satisfaction with Percentage of customers waiting time for service service at call center who would recommend the at branch bank to their friends or family members System average Bank Mizrahi-Tefahot 48 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Measurement And Handling Of A full, professional response is provided within 45 days from the date Customer Inquiries of receipt (except in exceptional cases, where an investigation may be answered within 60 days). Customer inquiries are an opportunity to reinforce and improve the relationship The Bank transparently publishes information on public inquiries received between the customer and the Bank, while increasing trust and satisfaction. during the year on the Bank website. The Bank views customer inquiries as a very important source for identifying Inquiries received and handled by the Public Ombudsman Unit, with cases in which a professional, high-quality solution was provided and as an regard to all inquiries received by Mizrahi Tefahot and Bank Yahav opportunity to empower proper conduct. However, the information in these in 2018: inquiries is of great importance and impact for improving service, correcting faults and improving banking processes. Based on this viewpoint, the Bank 81% of the inquiries received were complaints and the remaining has set itself the goal of optimally handling public inquiries. 19% were requests. Customer inquiries are directly received by the Public Ombudsman Unit, In 2018, we addressed 3,155 complaints. through various entities at the Bank, through the Bank of Israel or through other external entities. The Bank website provides the Customer Service Treaty, which elaborates the Bank approach to inquiries and the different ways to contact the Public Ombudsman Unit. The Ombudsman Unit is headed by the Ombudsman, reporting to the Bank’s Chief Internal Auditor. The Ombudsman and their staff are responsible for objectively and impartially addressing any public complaint, for thoroughly reviewing it, and for quickly responding to the customer. The Bank is committed to handling all inquiries according to the values in our Code of Ethics and our organizational culture, which highlights the values of reliability, integrity, fairness and transparency. At Bank Yahav, the party in charge of customer inquiries is part of the Legal Counsel Division, reporting to the Division Manager. Each inquiry received by the Public Ombudsman Unit receives feedback regarding its receipt within two business days. 49 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Complaints were received on the following subjects1: Total complaints found to be justified – In 2018, the justified complaints rate was 9% at Bank Mizrahi-Tefahot and 10% at Bank Yahav. (The other Mizrahi Tefahot Yahav complaints were found to be un-justified, complaints whose processing Percentage Percentage Percentage Percentage Number Of Of Of Justified Number Of Of Of Justified was concluded with no opinion formed1 or the complaint subject was not Subject Complaints Complaints In 2018 Complaints Complaints In 2018 Complaints Complaints within the unit’s authority2) In 2018 In 2018 In 2018 In 2018 Methods of Customer complaints about accessibility – In 2018, the Group received Payment 406 21% 12% 381 32% 11% 11 complaints about accessibility (5 at Mizrahi-Tefahot and 6 at Bank Yahav). None of these complaints were found to be justified. Housing loans 342 17% 11% 255 21% 10% Current accounts Complaints about breach of customer privacy – In 2018, the Group (including overdraft 326 17% 12% 95 8% 7% received 16 complaints about breach of privacy (10 at Mizrahi-Tefahot and (accounts 6 at Bank Yahav). Of these, 5 complaints were found to be justified (all Quality of service 321 16% 7% 226 19% 6% at Mizrahi-Tefahot), which were addressed as needed in conformity with Group procedures. Loans (non(housing 208 11% 7% 0 Customer complaints regarding discrimination in service provision Other activity of – In 2018, the Group received 17 complaints concerning discrimination the corporation 197 10% 4% 75 6% 11% (11 at Mizrahi-Tefahot and 6 at Bank Yahav). Of these, 1 complaint was found to be justified at Bank Mizrahi-Tefahot and was properly handled in Foreign currency 38 2% 11% 59 5% 15% conformity with Group procedures. information 30 1% 14% 29 2% 10% Securities 32 2% 3% 25 2% 36% Deposits and savings 48 2% 8% 18 2% 28% Dormant account 0 2 0.2% Other 17 1% 0% 25 2% 8% Total complaints 1,965 1,190 1. Investigation subjects classified in accordance with Bank of Israel Directive 308A. 1. Cases of “he said, she said”, without established evidence, or cases in which there is no significance to determining a position, in order to provide customer relief and resolve the issue 2. Complaints relating to the branch failing to approve credit, benefits in commissions or debt settlement 50 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Fairness And In 2005, after the merger of Bank HaMizrahi with Tefahot, the Bank set a clear goal: lead a new banking agenda. To this end, the Transparency Bank formed the “human banking vision” – whereby good banking service starts with professional, innovative banking which sees the Towards customer, understands the customer and speaks to the customer in their own language. Thus, the Bank’s unique Hybrid Banking Customers concept harnesses the global technological development in the world of banking to achieve an optimal combination of human and digital banking, allowing all customers direct access to their personal banker at the branch by using a range of communication channels. The Bank maintains a fair relationship with customers, ensuring full transparency with regard to information which the Bank is required to provide to customers with regard to its services. Fairness and transparency are fundamental values in the Bank’s Code of disseminated E-learning kits to employees. The Bank also conducted an Ethics and in the framework of its corporate social responsibility philosophy. anonymous survey among branch managers at the Bank, asking for their A fair relationship with all stakeholders, and especially with customers who opinion about the Bank’s Fairness concept. The survey showed a high level are at the center of business activity, is the basis for trust, success and of manager involvement, understanding of the meaning of the Fairness creating shared value. value and its deployment among Bank managers. In order to enhance the importance of the Fairness value among employees, In 2018, the Bank also conducted a Fairness survey among the general the Bank administers knowledge tests on this matter to new hires at the public1 to study the Bank’s standing as a fair bank, compared to other Bank and incorporates relevant content in training delivered for various banks. This year, too, Mizrahi-Tefahot was perceived as the most fair bank positions. In 2018, the Bank delivered diverse training on Fairness and in the banking system. 51 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Perception Of Bank Fairness Among Bank agreements. In case of any agreements that should be revised, including with regard to full disclosure and fees, this issue is reflected in the Audit Customers Report. 30% 28% 28% The publication of marketing messages about products and services, as 25% 21% 20% 23% 23% well as providing updates to existing customers, are made in accordance 20% with Group values and provisions of the law and of the Supervisor of Banks, 15% 15% and include all of the information required in accordance with mandatory 13% proper disclosure. 10% 9% Making The Bank ID Accessible 7% 5% 0% In accordance with Bank of Israel directive 425, as from 2015 all individual Bank D Bank C Mizrahi-Tefahot Bank B Bank A customers receive a “bank ID”, which lists information about all of their 2018 2017 assets and liabilities at the Bank, total income and expenses during the In 2018, the Group received no fines nor warnings concerning non-compliance year and a summary of activity in their current account. with voluntary regulations and codes with regard to providing information The bank places special emphasis on making the bank ID accessible to about financial products and services. customers, and therefore a general explanatory sheet is attached with regard to its essence, together with a reminder of personal banking services, noting Due Disclosure the name of the customer’s personal banker and the telephone number The perception of fairness and transparency towards customers is based, where he may be contacted. first and foremost, on providing all of the required information regarding financial products and services, in a clear and accessible manner, allowing Promoting Fair Pricing For Customers the customer to make the best decisions for them. Mizrahi-Tefahot Group developed an advanced model, allowing for optimal The Bank makes sure that agreements with customers comply with legal alignment of customer needs and their risk level and repayment capacity. requirements and with directives of the Supervisor of Banks regarding This is a decision-support model to help in decision making for the customer, proper disclosure. As part of the Internal Audit Division’s work plan, audits based exclusively on relevant considerations and eliminating any distortion are also conducted of information with regard to various products and that may impact the pricing of products offered to the customer. services offered to customers. These audits include sampling of customer 1. The answers do not add up to 100% due to the potential answer “another bank” 52 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Responsible The Bank ensures respectful, non-abusive marketing messages, in conformity with statutory provisions and with Proper Conduct of Banking Business Marketing And Directives of the Bank of Israel. The Bank adheres to clear standards with regard to marketing communications, Advertising advertising, sales promotion and sponsorship. These standards form part of marketing procedures and are reviewed in each campaign and on regular basis, annually or more often as required. In conformity with marketing procedures, all messages made public on behalf of the Bank are in compliance with legal requirements and with these principles: Avoiding contentious issues in Israeli society. Respectful, non-abusive advertising – The Bank adapts its messages for various segments of the population, so as to align with their norms and cultural values. These messages reflect the Bank’s guiding principles for its current operations – reliability, loyalty, maintaining human dignity, professional integrity and commitment to the customer. The Group’s marketing activity is characterized by messages conveyed to accepted codes in this field, both in terms of rules of ethics and the voluntary the public at large. As a leading market player, we engage in marketing and codes, and the Group ensures that its advertising adheres to the rules of advertising – both to potential customers and to existing customers – strictly ethics of the Second Broadcasting Authority. in adherence to statutory requirements and in compliance with mandatory In 2018, the Bank was not warned nor fined for any case of non-compliance with full disclosure, respecting the demographics in the Israeli population. regulation and/or voluntary codes with regard to marketing communications. The field of marketing communications is managed according to all generally53 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Diverse Customers ‫לבנקאי שלי אכפת ממני‬ And Promotion Of .‫הוא רואה אותי‬ ‫לדעת בגיל השלישי‬ !‫יש לי בן אדם בבנק‬ ‫ליהנות ו‬ ,‫להתעדכן‬ ‫ בית שמש‬,‫יצחק אמסלם‬ ‫ הרצליה‬,6 ‫סוקולוב‬ Various Demographics ,‫טפחות‬-‫של מזרחי‬ ‫מנים לסניף הרצליה‬ ‫מוז‬ ?‫ יש לך בן אדם בבנק‬,‫ומה איתך‬ 19:30 | ‫ם ראשון‬ ‫ יו‬,12.8 (CIP) ‫האינטרנט‬ ‫עמיחי המבורגר‬ 19:30 | ‫ום רביעי‬ ‫יאירהמרכז לחקר הפסיכולוגיה של הבינתחומי הרצליה‬ !‫לא? פשוט תעבור‬ ‫ המרכז‬,‫עופר לתקשורת‬ ‫ראש‬ ‫ י‬,11.7 ‫בבית ספר סמי‬ ‫ד״ר עליזה צביה‬ 70 ‫נטרנט אני לא בן‬ ‫התנהגותי קוגניטיבי‬ ‫באי‬ ‫מומחית לאימון‬ ‫שינוי ומעברים מייצרים קריירה‬ ‫דלתות מסתובבות‬ !‫גיל ובהצלחה‬ ‫בכל‬ ‫תוחה לקהל הרחב‬ ‫״ في بنكك بتعاملوا معك مجرد رقم حساب ״‬ ‫לפרטים התקשרו עכשיו‬ ‫הפעילות פ‬ ِ ‫לסניף‬ ‫ללא עלות‬ *8860 ‫בית שמש‬ َ .‫بـكـفي تتـذمر‬ .‫מספר המקומות מוגבל‬ ,‫ ההרשמה מראש‬.‫פחות‬ *8860 ‫ט‬-‫היכנסו לאתר מזרחי‬ ‫إذا ما بتنتق‬ mizrahi-tefah ‫לפרטים והרשמה‬ ot.co.il َ‫غي‬،‫وضعك ما بتل‬ ‫ *אין‬.‫ם לאפשרויות‬ ‫תא‬ .‫ח‬.‫ל‬.‫ ט‬,‫הפעילות ונעשה כל מאמץ לסייע בה קומות מוגבל‬ ‫תחליף לאנושיות‬ ‫ מספר המ‬,‫מראש‬ ‫ ההרשמה‬,‫טפחות עד שבועיים לפני ההרצאות‬-‫במזרחי‬ ‫ אין‬,‫שובים באמת‬ ‫ייתכנו שינויים במועדי‬ ‫ נפגשים‬ .‫פנה אלינו דרך צור קשר באתר התקשרות עם חברה זו‬ ‫בדברים הח‬ !‫ر‬ ‫המלצה של הבנק ל‬ ‫ אנא‬,‫נגישות‬ ‫אם נדרשת לך התאמת ההרצאה ואין לראות בה‬ ‫אחראי לתוכנה של‬ ‫הבנק‬ The Bank sees the great importance of approaching diverse *8860 :‫راحي طفحوت‬ ‫الى مز‬ ‫انتقل‬ customers and segments in Israeli society. As part of its policy on promoting customer interests, the Bank strives Diverse media – The Bank approaches different to create products and services in response to various segments in the population through media commonly customer needs. This is based on the understanding that used by each segment. The Bank also acts to provide different customers have different needs and on the desire unique solutions for diverse segments: to adapt for each customer the products and services most Arab sector – This is based on establishing a branch appropriate for them. This is designed to allow anyone network in Arab and mixed-population towns and by who so wishes to become a Bank customer. translating banking and marketing content into Arabic. Jewish Orthodox sector – Aligning marketing To this end, the Bank acts as follows: messages with the Jewish Orthodox population and Multiple languages – The Bank strives to adapt its development of products relevant for this sector. services for speakers of diverse languages, at branches Retirees – Adaptation of products and services and and at service centers. conducting specific activities for this population.” 54 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Speaking Your Language as well as unique financial needs, that require a custom response in order to bring about their true integration into Israeli society. As part of the policy to promote customer interests and based on the understanding that the financial world addresses different audiences with Arab Sector diverse needs – the Bank offers service to customers in different languages: The Bank is expanding its business activity in the Arab sector, according Customers who call the different call centers can receive service to a long-term, plan by opening new branches (in 2018, the Bank opened in the language of their choice. If at the time of the call there is no branches in Sachnin and Shefaram) and expanding activity in existing banker available who speaks that language, the customer is asked ones (as of 2018, 7 branches), focusing its marketing message on diverse to leave their contact information to get a call back. media channels and presenting publications throughout the year, led by the designated brand ambassador. At the end of 2018, Mizrahi-Tefahot had The investment center offers a customized investment service to branches in these Arab towns: Kfar Yassif, Nazareth, Shefaram, Sachnin, customers in Hebrew, Arabic, Russian, French, Spanish and English. Baqa Al Gharbiya, Um El Fahem and Kfar Kassem. Moreover, the center supports international private banking customers, allowing them to receive banking services in the language of their Furthermore, in 2018 the Bank incorporated special activities designated choice. for Arab sector as part of the “Let us meet at Mizrahi-Tefahot” program, adapting the content and speakers to the target audience. In this context, The Mortgage Center includes bankers who speak foreign languages, 10 activities took place at Um El Fahem, Kfar Kasem, Shefaram and who provide a response and who act as a gateway to the Bank for Akko. foreign residents who are interested in buying property and obtaining a mortgage in Israel. The foreign resident desk provides answers in English, French and Spanish. A Unique Solution For Diverse Demographics The Bank defined the Arab sector, the Jewish Orthodox sector and retirees as strategic demographics in which the Bank wishes to grow over time and with which the Bank would like to intensify contact. This is based on the understanding that these demographics have social and cultural attributes, 55 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Jewish Orthodox Sector 1. Continued “Let us meet – Sixties” activity – A series of meetings and lectures designed for retirees, held at different Bank branches, The Bank intensifies its ties with the Jewish Orthodox community, both including a banking lecture on “Smart economic conduct before and by opening new branches and by expanding activity in the existing ones. during retirement”. The “Let us meet – Sixties” activity was put in place The Bank specifically addresses this segment through specific media, by as part of the Bank’s strategy focusing on personal, human contact, adapting the language of the marketing messages. Thus, the marketing in order to provide a high-quality solution to free time available to this language is adapted for the needs and values of this segment. This segment demographics. In 2018, we revised some of the content designed for has been addressed through a range of channels. such as Orthodox press, retirees, such as: “When I am online, I am not 70 years old”, “Fear of radio, online and mobile websites, billboards and posters in cities identified missing out (FOMO)”, “Secrets of outstanding memory”. In addition to with this sector. these lectures and content, participants were also given short presentations The Bank continued to include activities focused on the Jewish Orthodox on relevant financial fields such as savings, capital market and pension. sector in its “Let us meet at Mizrahi-Tefahot” program, with content and In total we delivered 32 lectures to this audience at 8 branches; all speakers customized for the needs of this population. In 2018, some 15 lectures were open to the public, free of charge. activities took place in this context at these branches: Tarfon Business 2. “Digital banking empowerment for older citizens” – Joint activity by the Center, Bet Shemesh and Geula in Jerusalem. We also delivered Bank of Israel, the Ministry of Social Equality and the Banking Association. mortgage workshops customized for the Jewish Orthodox sector in these Bank representatives delivered lectures on digital financial education to cities: Bney Brak, Jerusalem, Ashdod, Elad, Betar Ilit, Petach Tikva and older citizens at several cinemas, as part of a “Tuesday film for the elderly” Bet Shemesh. events, and invited customers to Bank branches to receive in-person Retirees training about digital banking. The Bank produced 3 training brochures on “The easy way to digital banking”: In 2018, as part of the plan to expand activity among retirees, the Bank used multiple channels in order to expand its unique offering of products User guide for Mizrahi-Tefahot website. and services for this audience: User guide for Mizrahi-Tefahot app. 1. Communicating products and services designed for retirees, such as Service stations at Mizrahi-Tefahot branches. “Cherry deposit” – These deposits provide customers with monthly These brochures are regularly used as aids in working with retirees on income or pension (the latter including partial principal repayment along using digital channels offered by the Bank. with interest), to complement their retirement pension. The Bank also offers a pension advisory service adapted for retiree customers and their needs, provided by expert advisors. 56 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Promoting Disadvantaged Populations And Help Customers In Crisis The Bank is committed to supporting disadvantaged Promoting Under-Privileged populations in Israel. This is due to the Bank being part of Populations Israeli society and because some Bank customers come from these populations. In this context, the Bank strives Assistance For Abused Women to help through several major channels: The Bank has joined an inter-bank covenant launched by the Banking Association in co-operation with the Bank of Israel, to facilitate dealing with Promoting disadvantaged populations – The Bank financial issues for abused women staying in shelters and in temporary provides support for disadvantaged populations in housing. The purpose of this covenant is to assist women who reside in Israeli society, including debtors, women staying in shelters for abused women, both through a special contact person who is shelters for abused women and population in need, available to help these women and through agreement in principle, subject to certain conditions, to delay legal proceedings against these women. both directly and through organizations that work In 2018, the Bank received 12 applications from women staying in such with these populations. shelters – and these applications were handled by the special contact Respectful service for customers in crisis – person. In 2018, Bank Yahav received no applications with regard to The Bank provides respectful, sensitive service to assistance for abused women. customers who face difficulties. 57 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Retaining Interest For Holocaust Survivors Customer Sector and attorneys representing the Bank meet with customers, conduct joint campaigns with the Enforcement and Collection Authority Who Receive Reparations and review applications for agreements from both customers and relief A plan for retaining a uniform, attractive interest rate for customers (Holocaust organizations. This was in addition to the Bank’s constant contact with survivors who receive reparations) and allowing such deposits to be renewed organizations providing assistance, including Pa’amonim and Yadid, who indefinitely, as opposed to other products where renewal is limited. assist customers in debt. Deposits Of Migrant Foreign Workers And National Collection Center Asylum Seekers As a rule, a customer in debt or in arrears, is approached by the Bank’s The Bank has been awarded a tender by the Israeli Government to provide National Collection Center, even before being transferred to the Special deposit services for migrant foreign workers and asylum seekers. As part Customer Sector for processing. Bankers at the Collection Center are of the service, the deposits transferred by the employer for the foreign extensively trained in aiding customers who face challenges in meeting worker are accrued by the Bank through termination of their employment. their obligations, in order to reach agreement with the Bank, in line with When the employee has terminated their employment in Israel, they get their capacity, to eliminate their debt and to return customers to the regular the deposit balance as requested by them (in cash or by wire transfer to repayment schedule. their account overseas). These arrangements are made judiciously and are personalized for each and every customer, in order to resolve the difficulties which borrowers are currently facing. As part of their collection efforts, the bankers are instructed Assistance For Customers In Crisis to handle customers with empathy and to discover, at the outset, the source It is Bank policy to provide considerate service, understanding of the of the hardship which the customer is facing and what is the reason for customer’s situation, especially in cases of financial hardship and in times their payments being in arrears. of crisis. The Special Customers Sector of the Business Division, tasked Thus, as for mortgages, out of all cases of payments in arrears sent to with handling customer debt collection and managing controlled accounts, the Collection Center in 2018 (18,500 new cases of arrears), only 2% acts in conformity with this policy and meticulously provides respectful, were referred to legal proceedings. All of the other cases handled by the sensitive service to customers in times of crisis. Collection Center resolved their debt and resumed their payments in good The Bank makes significant effort to agree with customers in debt on standing or continue to be handled by the Collection Center, most of them arrangements that they can comply with. with active arrangements in place and a high level of compliance with such arrangements. In order to promote agreements with debtors, representatives of the Special 58 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Promoting The Bank strives to make its services accessible for persons with disabilities, thus allowing anyone who so wishes to become Accessibility a Bank customer. The Bank is made accessible on these key levels: For Persons Making facilities physically accessible – In this regard, the Bank acts to make branches, ATMs, service stations With Disabilities and its website accessible for customers, so as to allow persons with disabilities to also conveniently use these. Making banking services accessible – The Bank acts to make banking services accessible, in conformity with the Equal Rights to Disabled Persons Act. Making Banking Services The subject of accessibility is managed at the Bank by an Accessibility Accessible For Disabled Persons Coordinator, who was duly certified. Making branches accessible – as of the end of 2018, 96% of Recognizing the importance of this issue, the Group emphasizes making Bank Mizrahi-Tefahot branches and 100% of Bank Yahav branches services accessible for all its customers. Bank Mizrahi-Tefahot and Bank are accessible to persons with disabilities, in terms of building and Yahav implement the Equal Rights for Persons with Disabilities Act, ensuring related accessories. Branches yet to be made accessible have been that buildings, infrastructure and environment are made accessible, and approved by the Equal Opportunity Commission of the Ministry of that the service provided to the public is made accessible, so as to allow Economy and are in the process of being made accessible with the persons with disabilities to conveniently use such service. relevant authority. 59 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Making ATMs accessible – as of the end of 2018, all Bank MizrahiPromoting accessible service – Group employees and managers Tefahot ATMs and all Bank Yahav ATMs are accessible to persons undergo specialized training concerning providing accessible service. with disabilities, in terms of device height. In 2018, all Bank employees completed E-learning on providing Making service stations accessible – The Group is promoting several accessible service, and new hires received custom training upon initiatives to improve accessibility of service stations in operation starting in their role. We delivered 3,199 training hours on this subject, throughout Israel. Thus, for example, the new service stations at including base and refresher E-learning kits. the Bank are positioned at an appropriate height, allowing a person in a wheel chair to use the service station. Bank Yahav service In addition to improving accessibility for those with disabilities, the Bank is stations are accessible for persons with disabilities, both in physical also improving accessibility for other demographics, including speakers of and technological aspects, with accessibility software in place and foreign languages and those with low access to technology, such as the inductive loop systems, microphones and supporting tray installed. elderly population. Making online services accessible – The Bank ensures that the services provided through online communication channels are also made accessible as necessary. This is based on the understanding that these channels make it easier for persons with disabilities to use various services, without having to go to the branch. As of the end of 2018, the Bank’s accessible websites include the transactions website, the marketing websites, the loyalty club website, and the banking app. In 2018, the Bank also launched an accessible website for trading on the capital market; in 2019, the Bank should launch accessible apps for banking and for trading on the capital market. All accessibility arrangements at the Group – physical, service and online – are listed on the Bank website. 60 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Development Of Environmental Lending Environmental And The Bank acts to promote environmental lending to its customers in several areas; in 2018, the Bank provided NIS 1,103 million to promote environmental causes as follows: Social Products Improved Energy Efficiency Fund – As part of the venture by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and by the Small and Medium Business Administration of the Ministry of Economics to assist small The Bank recognizes the importance of identifying risk businesses in promoting improved energy efficiency, the Bank provides and opportunities facing the Bank and provides loans for loans to businesses who carry out such projects. In 2018, as a preliminary stage, the Bank provided loans amounting to NIS development, construction or launching of products with 178 million. a positive environmental and social impact. Promoting credit for development of energy sources – In 2018, Providing loans for development, construction or credit was approved for green energy – renewable energy, energy launching of environmental products – The Bank generated from renewable sources as well as financing for cois committed to promoting environmental issues and generation facilities. Use of such energy reduces environmental therefore assists by providing loans for development of pollution. Loans approved in 2018 amounted to NIS 925 million; in 2017 – NIS 448 million. new technologies for generating, including to customers seeking to construct solar energy generation plants. Incorporation of environmental considerations in extending loans to companies with environmental implications – The Bank Providing loans for development, construction or has an environmental risk management policy in place, as part of the launching of social products – The Bank, being a approval of credit policy documents. The Bank’s policy documents major financial institution, is aware of its accountability include dedicated environmental risks policies, including methodology for economic stability and growth and supports small for identification, assessment and handling of environmental risk. businesses through various funds which promote social or business goals in outlying areas and through support and promotion for social businesses. 61 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Social Lending families. As part of this partnership, the Bank resolved to lend NIS 1 million over 10 years, starting in 2017. The Bank acts to promote social lending to its customers in several areas; Social investments by US affiliate – In 2018, the Los Angeles in 2018, the Bank provided NIS 640 million to promote social causes branch invested NIS 18.1 million (USD 5.04 million), as required as follows: by the Community Reinvestment Act CRA), in dedicated funds Loans to small businesses: “The Northern-Southern Fund” – The which provide mortgages to the disadvantaged and loans to small Bank promotes small and medium businesses in the Northern and businesses in the USA. This is a 3% increase compared to 2017, Southern regions, by turning these regions into attraction hubs, by when investment amounted to NIS 17.5 million. creating employment, increasing revenues and improving quality of life. To this end, the Bank allocated through 2018 loans amounting to NIS 871 million, of which NIS 58 million in 2018 alone, compared to NIS 85 million in 2017. Government-backed fund for small and medium businesses – Since 2012, the Bank has been active in the Government-backed fund for small and medium businesses. In 2016, the Bank was Composition of social lending for 2018 awarded the new tender conducted by the Government and started 0.2% 3% providing such loans as from May 2016. To this end, the Bank allocated through 2018 loans amounting to NIS 3.661 billion, of which NIS 9% 582 million in 2018 alone, compared to NIS 544 million in 2017. In the fund, launched in 2016 in accordance with tender requirements, the Bank’s share of loans provided is 60%, in a financial partnership Development of outlying areas with institutional entities, that provides the loans. Small businesses Social businesses Loans in cooperation with IVN Yozma Fund – The Bank provides Under-privileged loans in jointly with the Fund, which focuses on the development, investment and support for social businesses that focus on vocational training and employment for youth and youngsters at risk, people with special needs, paroled prisoners, the elderly and single-parent 88% 62 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Information Security This is managed by the Bank as follows: Risk mapping – The Bank regularly conducts mapping, And Keeping analysis, management and assessment of all risk factors facing the Bank. Information Risks management and mitigation – In conformity with the current risk mapping, the Bank implements Confidential processes and technology to hedge and mitigate risk. Control – The Bank applies control processes in order to identify any gaps in implementation of the tools and The Bank attaches great importance to information security processes specified. and in maintaining the privacy of customer information. To Information security is managed by the Risk Control Division, this end, the Bank has specified its information security and together with the Technology Division. cyber strategy and policy, which have been approved by The Risk Control Division specifies policy and requirements Bank management and by the Board of Directors, in line on different topics, directs the various units and provides with Bank of Israel requirements. This policy includes the approval and control services with regard to information commitment by Bank management with regard to ensuring security. the availability, privacy, integrity and reliability of information The Technology Division deploys and operates lines of systems and assets of the Bank and its customers, with defense and technology, based on the policy and requirements emphasis on maintaining customer information privacy and specified at the Bank and the Division – and is responsible banking confidentiality. The Bank’s outsourcing policy ensures for monitoring, identification and avoidance of any deviation that where the Bank has elected to conduct business with from such policy and requirements. customers through a third party (outsourcing), the supplier The Hybrid Banking sector of the Bank is certified under ensures information privacy, as stipulated by Bank policy. the information security management standard ISO 27001. 63 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Taking No Risk – Protection Circles accounts, informing the customer if any such use has been identified, For Safeguarding Information assisted by external entities to locate information with regard to the Bank in cyberspace. Our customers entrust to not only their money, but also significant financial Confidentiality and privacy – Access to customer information is and personal information. In today’s technological reality, given threats such controlled and allowed based on policies specified for this matter. as digital fraud and cyber crime, the Group extensively acts to safeguard There is also strict adherence to procedures regarding safeguarding information. Among the steps that can be disclosed, we apply the following: the privacy of customer information and banking confidentiality, with Risk management – Risk assessment for systems and processes, regular control and enforcement. including monitoring of sensitivity transactions, information analysis Awareness and education – Regular activity to enhance awareness and processing, identification of anomalies, response and control. of Group employees and mangers of risk associated with the Internet Addressing cyber threats – developing and using advanced and with social media. In this context, training is delivered to new technological capabilities to deal with cyber threats, including cyber employees, lectures are delivered to managers and information crime. The Bank, inter alia, monitors customer activity in the various security and cyber security flashes are disseminated, discussing channels, in order to identify and prevent un-authorized use of customer different events in Israel and overseas. This is designed to enhance 64 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance awareness of events and to underline the personal responsibilities We also check suppliers – our suppliers who are exposed to of all employees, managers for safeguarding customer information internal information, especially those exposed to information about privacy and safeguarding the Bank’s information assets. In 2018, our customers, are committed to maintain strict information security we delivered 2,774 training hours on information security, to 1,329 measures, designed to provide good security for such information. employees and managers. As part of the risk control and management processes of suppliers, Securing transactions in direct channels – As described, we in conformity with Proper Conduct of Banking Business Directive maintain diverse communication channels with our customers, 363, the Bank conducts rigorous checks and surveys with regard including through a mobile app, various websites, e-mail and SMS to information security at suppliers’ premises, so as to ensure that messages. When signing up for one of these channels, customers are the required security level is maintained. instructed how they should act to optimally safeguard their privacy and their information. Moreover, customer authentication and verification processes have been defined for any contact through one of these channels. The Bank manages communications in various channels, in conformity with Proper Conduct of Banking Business Directive 367, which governs activities of banking corporations when providing online banking services to customers. The Bank implemented multiple measures to reinforce authentication, to identify anomalies, and to ensure stronger protection for customer activity and for Bank business. This activity will continue in 2019. Customers who wish to open a bank account with Mizrahi-Tefahot directly via the Internet can now do so, in conformity with approval granted by the Bank of Israel in 2015. In order to overcome the need to go to the Bank for physical identification, the Bank of Israel has authorized customer identification by video call with a banker. We make sure that customers who open an account via the Internet would have an optimal user experience, without compromising on strict information security and safeguarding customer privacy. 65 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Looking Forward Goals For 2019 Achievement Of 2018 Goals Continue offering conferences and meetings with business customers on various topics, including foreign trade. Continued expansion of the service: Open 3 new branches Goal Status Provide assistance to small businesses to promote improved Continued expansion of the service: Open 3 new energy efficiency, through the Improved Energy Efficiency Fund. Done branches Invest in social-oriented debentures to increase the percentage Continued expansion of activity in the Arab and Jewish of 4and 5-unit mathematics graduates in Rahat. Orthodox sectors, by opening new, designated branches Done and expanding existing services Continued expansion of activity in the Arab sector and in the Continue to conduct business customer conferences Done Jewish Orthodox sector, by opening new, designated branches and expanding existing services Maintain high level of satisfaction among Group Done Continued “Let us meet at Mizrahi-Tefahot” activity” in the customers financial domain, focused on the Arab sector, Jewish Orthodox Continue to provide optimal service handling customer sector and retirees (“Let us meet – Sixties”). Done complaints, with fair treatment of customers by the Bank Continue activity as part of courses at the Small Training on environmental risk delivered to relevant employees Done at the Business Division. Business College Expand the activities of Let us meet at Mizrahi-Tefahot Maintain high level of satisfaction among Group customers to specific sectors: the Arab sector, the Jewish Orthodox Done and continue to provide optimal service handling customer sector, retirees ( Let us meet – Sixties ) and businesses complaints, with fair treatment of customers by the Bank Continue delivery of mortgage workshops and activities Done Monitor changes in the threat space and adapt defensive systems targeted at the Jewish Orthodox sector at the Bank, in line with such changes, so as to ensure the level Continue delivery of a series of meetings for the of defense for Bank systems and customer information. Further business sector and for companies, with our foreign Done increase awareness of cyber risk among Bank employees and trade experts provide basic tools for understanding the threat outline and desirable ways of protection. 66 Investing In The Community 67 2,500 students Participate in the “NOAR LATET” Investing In The Community Overview 28,700 hours of volunteer work educational program for social invested by Group employees entrepreneurship, sponsored by the Bank. as part of activity in the community. 68,000 students 12.8% growth took part in “Green light for children” in “Let us meet at training sponsored by the Bank at 200 schools. Mizrahi-Tefahot”activities in 2018. Conducted 161 activities with regard to social NIS 240,000 Total purchasing from and welfare issues, as well as 32 activities with regard to social NGOs financial issues. 95% in 2018, by the Bank and its employees. of suppliers are 9.5% growth local ones 18% of those are in total investment in social and community activities, amounting to from outlying areas. NIS 16.1 million 68 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Impact On As a business entity whose business relies on the community in which it operates, the Bank is committed to be involved with Israeli Society and to invest in the community. The Bank is working to realize its community involvement in a manner that expresses its strength, Through engages the Bank’s employees in active volunteer activity and leverages its physical, financial and human abilities and resources. Involvement These matters are handled at the Bank by the Mizrahi-Tefahot in the Community unit of the Organizational Development and Training And Volunteer Department of the Human Resources and Administration Division. The Bank’s community engagement is carried out accompanied Work by a constant dialogue and realization of broad initiatives with community partners throughout Israel, engagement of employees and managers, geographic and other diversification of activities utilizing the Bank’s nationwide presence, through partnerships and with internal and external communication of the Bank’s community involvement. The Bank is primarily focused on two specific social areas, to which it funnels most of the charitable donation and volunteer activity by the Bank and its employees: A) Promote childrenandyouthfrom disadvantagedpopulations B) Supporting NGOs and businesses who promote social causes or employ persons with disabilities 69 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance The Bank’s involvement in these areas is reflected by Investment through charitable donations, sponsorship various activities: and equipment – The Bank donates furniture, electric Involvement of employees and their families in the appliances and PCs to various NGOs, after reviewing community – contribution to the community has become their compliance with rules for proper management. a key objective for Bank employees, and management provides incentives to employees to participate in this Key areas of activity activity. Promote and empower children and youth from Involvement in broad projects to help youth at risk and disadvantaged populations persons with disabilities – The Bank and its employees are involved in projects which empower youth at risk and Support for NGOs and social businesses promote volunteer activities with youth – as well as in projects which assist NGOs that employ persons with Education and society Financial education special needs. Investment in financial education – supporting and Composition of investment in the increasing financial awareness among youth, customers community by type of activity: and the public at large. 1% Including stakeholders in community involvement Promote and empower children and youth – The Bank attaches great importance to including its 36% from disadvantaged popilations customers in community activities, by including them in 39% Support for NGOs and social businesses decision making on targets for charitable donations by the Financial education Bank to NGOs and by including them in various projects Education and society Other initiated by the Bank, such as collection of medications, participating in runs etc. 9% 15% 70 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Promote And Empower “LATET Youth” – Since 2012, the Bank has partnered in an Children And Youth educational program for social entrepreneurship, volunteer work and empowerment of youth, in co-operation with the From Disadvantaged NGO named LATET. As part of the program, Bank employees Populations advise and assist youth, who initiate and operate social projects for the benefit of the communities in which they live. In 2018, As part of Group policy to promote and empower children and this activity took place at 41 towns nationwide, with 2,500 youth, the Bank continued to invest in diverse projects designed to participants from various parts of Israeli society, including realize this goal: youth at risk, youth with disabilities, Druze, Muslim and youth “ZAZIM” – youth movements for the community – The from underprivileged towns. objective of this project, in co-operation with the Youth Movement “Hebrew B’Salaam” – The Bank has joined forces with the Council, is to encourage youth movement participants to Abraham Foundation to operate a program teaching Hebrew volunteer for society and their community. In this project, language skills at Arab schools, taught by Jewish teachers. which was started in 2012, youngsters submit proposals for In 2018, this activity took place at 34 Arab schools with 348 involvement projects in community work, which would be classrooms and 10,500 pupils. supported by the Bank. Out of 340 proposals submitted in 2018, the Bank selected 69 projects to support. Furthermore, as “make a wish” – This NGO acts to make dreams and wishes part of community involvement at the Bank and to encourage come true for children suffering from serious illness. In 2018 family members of Bank employees to take part in community as well, the Bank participated in 6 planning and wish fulfillment involvement, the Bank personally invited children of employees efforts for sick children. The wish fulfillment was achieved at 2 to take part in the ZAZIM project. workshops, attended by 30 Bank employees, who also took part in making the wish come true. In 2018, the Bank also Thus, for example, in 2018 the project “Grandma sponsored the NGO’s fund raising event. Stories” was selected, with a troop of boy and girl scouts “Zichron Menachem” – Since 2010, the Bank held, for the 8th in Givatayim adopting the residents of a retirement home to year, an annual fun day in Eilat for 150 children, in collaboration jointly create a work depicting the personal stories of retirees, with employees at the Eilat branch. Throughout the year, the in co-operation with Shenkar graduates. Geula branch in Jerusalem adopts the “Zichron Menachem” children, celebrating the holidays and their birthdays with them. 71 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance “Ezer MeZion” – an NGO acting for the well-being of cancer “Chaverim lerefua” – An NGO which operates a social patients, including children. In 2018, this NGO received a pharmacy, by collecting un-used medications and providing financial donation, as selected by Bank employees. In 2016, the them as a contribution to people unable to buy them. Through Bank helped increase bone marrow availability, by establishing dedicated collection containers, placed at Bank branches, a bone marrow donor database in the name of the Bank. The employees and customers can provide drugs that are no database is available to patients requiring a bone marrow longer needed. The drugs are passed on to the NGO and are transplant. checked by professional pharmacists, before being delivered “Joy for children” – this NGO acts for the well-being of children to patients who face financial challenges in buying their drugs. suffering from serious illness. In 2018, the Bank sponsored a Since the launch of this activity through 2018, drugs valued at fund raising event for the NGO and Bank volunteers, to bring over NIS 5 million have been collected through Bank Mizrahijoy to children in hospitals in Jerusalem and helped raise funds Tefahot alone. on a special fund raising day dedicated to this NGO. “Rachashei Lev” – This NGO provides wellbeing activities for children diagnosed with cancer and their family members. In 2018, the Bank sponsored a camp for children diagnosed with cancer, which took place in Eilat. “Shalva” – This NGO helps children with special needs. In 2018, the Bank’s Agripas branch adopted children from this NGO and conducted custom activities together with them. The Bank also sponsored this NGO’s fund raising event. Hanukkah of Gifts – As part of this unique project, on Make A Wish Hanukkah 2018, some 1,700 children from boarding schools and welfare day-clubs enjoyed Hanukkah gifts purchased by Zazim project 1,000 Bank employees. The gifts are purchased by employees at a subsidized cost, with the difference made up by Bank management. 72 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance “Young Summer” – The Bank invites employees’ children Promoting The Local to volunteer during the summer vacation with social NGOs involved in the community. 30 children of employees volunteered Community in 2018 and received a gift whose monetary value is in line As part of its activity in the community, the Bank with their volunteering hours. sees the importance of reinforcing its ties with local community where the Bank operates. To this end, Bank Mizrahi-Tefahot is Road Safety – The Bank has sponsored the “Green Light for active in various communities in the vicinity of Bank centers, Children” program, which is operated by an interactive van and is also involved in funding and social activity as part of that visits elementary schools throughout the country. As part its activity among neighboring communities. of this activity, pupils are made aware of road safety content, designed to raise awareness of road risk and to provide them 1. Adoptive units – Some 125 Bank branches and headquarters with tools for handling such risk. In this activity, the pupils units adopt social organizations in their towns, that act on behalf experience safe riding, practice proper road crossing and of children and youth at risk. This includes regular activities to are taught safety rules. In 2018, training was delivered in 200 provide assistance and mentoring by volunteer employees, schools throughout the country, attended by 68,000 pupils. holding social events, unique activities in advance of holidays, using creative craft kits sent by “Mizrahi-Tefahot in the Community” “Neighborhood Leaders” – a two-year program for fourth to and centralized activities for children well-being in various regions fifth graders in Jerusalem, who learn about their neighborhood all across Israel. and the school vicinity, through tours and meetings with related figures, as well as in school classes. The program goal is to 2. Community involvement in Lod – A large headquarters building empower the pupils and to intensify their sense of affinity, is located in Lod, where some 1,300 employees work. The Bank belonging and local pride in the neighborhood in which they takes part in many activities in Lod. live. The program is spearheaded by the Yad Ben Tzvi Institute. “Holylood” – The Bank has sponsored, for the fourth year, a festival of social films and a competition for films by youths, written and produced by high-school students in Lod. The films were screened as part of the “Holylood” film festival, held in the city. 73 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Pre-school center – The Bank contributed to construction of Ramat Gan Theater – with 300 children enjoying a performance a pre-school center, serving the Arab and Jewish populations of the “Cinderella” play at the Ramat Gan Theater. who live close to the Chicago Youth Center in the city. “Theater Days” – a project of Beit Zvi Theater in Ramat Gan, “Melodica” – The Bank sponsors the Melodica social club, supported by the Bank, where pupils in schools adopted by which provides social activities to teenagers in Lod. Bank units enjoy an experiential day, including a performance by theater students, workshops and theatrical activities. In the “Volunteering for the community” – Bank employees take part 2018 school year, 150 pupils from 5 schools participated in in various community activities and join volunteer organizations these theater days. in school after-study clubs, in providing financial training to youngsters (The Money Road project) and in other municipal events, such as the Purim festival “ADLODYADA” and the Lod Race. Bar Mitzvah for Lod children – A city-wide event for Bar Mitzvah and Bat Mitzvah children and their parents, that takes place in Jerusalem for the fifth year. This event includes a tour of the Old City and the Western Wall, and a festive ceremony at the end of this day, attended by the Mayor of Lod and Bank representatives. 3. Community involvement in Ramat Gan – In Ramat Gan, in the building housing Bank management, there are 900 employees; the Bank takes part in diverse activities in this city. Welfare daytime clubs – All welfare daytime clubs in Ramat Gan are adopted and assisted by Bank units located at the Bank’s headquarters building in this city. In Hanukkah, a key event for all children in these daytime clubs took place at the 74 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Support For NGOs And Social Businesses That Orthodox rhythm Promote Social Causes This NGO supports under-privileged populations in the Jewish Orthodox sector, through use of the Brazilian martial art As part of its community involvement, Bank MizrahiCapoeira, which combines movement and rhythm. This NGO Tefahot supports and promotes NGOs and socialis active in rehabilitation of youth and adapting work / study oriented businesses that promote social innovation, facilities for them, as well as helping in assigning them to so as to increase its influence to benefit the community: appropriate units in the IDF. In 2018, activities were attended by 100 youth, compared to 70 in 2017. “Business with value” project – the Bank’s social venture program, in cooperation with the IVN Foundation supporting social businesses and NGOs that aid those with special needs in an innovative, ground-breaking way. As part of this “The Honeycomb” – a home for the promotion and development venture, start-up social businesses or NGOs are invited to of social projects that provide solutions to challenges faced apply to take part and to benefit from a financial grant from by disadvantaged populations. The Bank joined as sponsor the Bank and from professional assistance from experienced of the “Honeycomb” activities, both financially and through businessmen. In 2018, 100 businesses and NGOs applied, of assistance, with the participation of managers at different which 4 NGOs were selected to receive professional assistance stages of these ventures. from Bank employees and business advisors on the following topics: Writing a business plan, organizational development, “Added Value” website – The Bank launched the Added Value marketing, human resource management etc. These NGOs website – an online platform for products and services produced also received a financial award, for expanding their business, by 200 NGOs and social and environmental organizations that in conformity with the business plan. Below are examples of employ persons with special needs. This platform provides a projects selected: unique store front for hundreds of social and environmental organizations, helping them gain exposure of their products and services to the public at large – both individuals and businesses. The objective of this venture is to connect potential customers and social organizations. In 2017, the website was made accessible by people with special needs. 75 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance “Recurring Story” – The Bank has joined forces with the designed to raise funds for ILAN children. In 2018, some 130 “Shekulo Tov” NGO in a joint project to operate a book lending employees took place in the rally. venture for Bank employees, through an online library. In Popular race at the Jerusalem Marathon – This race is addition, two libraries were established in the Ramat Gan sponsored by the Bank in co-operation with the Israel Cancer management building and in the Bank building in Lod, operated Society, and more than 440 employees and their family by members of “Shekulo Tov” who are being rehabilitated. members take part in it in 2018. “Eran” – The Bank, together with NGO Eran, has trained Passover Walk – A walk for cancer research, attended by 24 employees to do volunteer work, providing a response to 100 Bank employees and their families, is being held for callers using the NGO online hot-line. the ninth year. Seminar for NGO managers – The seminar “Business Thinking “Adopt a Battalion” – The Bank has adopted the Sayeret and Planning”, held in 2018 and designed to help expand their Matkal Battalion and conducted various activities with this unit. business activity, was attended by 60 NGO managers. The Bank also hosted events for the unit, such as: Conference “Creating from the Heart for the Community“ – For several for departing soldiers, workshop for Operations Officers and years now, the Bank has been supporting the “Creating from others. the Heart for the Community” fair, held since 2010 during the Total purchasing from social-oriented NGOs by Bank Sukkot holiday at Mamilla Boulevard in Jerusalem. At this employees at NGO fairs or through various Bank activities, fair, some 30 NGOs that employ people with special needs amounted to NIS 240 thousand in 2018, compared to NIS offer their products to tens of thousands of visitors. 190 thousand in 2017. Buying gifts and giveaways from NGOs – The Bank also buys gifts and other giveaways through these various NGOs and in the holiday season, employees are invited to purchase select products at sales events held at Bank headquarters and through the Bank’s intranet website. “Tour De TROM” bicycle rally – This initiative, launched nine years ago, has become a tradition at the Bank. This project Jerusalem marathon is held in cooperation with the ILAN NGO sports center – Tour De TROM 76 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Promoting Financial youngsters in the content listed in this package. In 2016, the Education kit was translated into Arabic and made available on the Bank website. In 2018, “Money Road” kit training was delivered by Being one of the top 5 banks in Israel, which impacts students who received tuition scholarships from the Bank, in the economy and the market, we at Mizrahi-Tefahot exchange for training groups of youths at high schools. We attach great importance to promoting financial also developed the “Value of Money for elementary schools” education among the Israeli public and we make kit, adapted for activities in elementary school classes. This an effort to provide our customers and the public with tools kit is designed, inter alia, to Bank employees who wish to for proper financial conduct, including tools for economic deliver activities at their children’s schools. In 2018, this kit empowerment and proper budget management. Other activities was borrowed by 90 Bank employees to deliver activities in this framework include: at their children’s elementary schools. Mortgage workshops – As the leading mortgage bank in Israel, Digital banking empowerment for older citizens – In we attach great importance to holding training sessions and co-operation with the Bank of Israel, the Ministry of Social workshops on this topic. These workshops provide participants Equality and the Banking Association, extensive activity took with clear, professional information about the world of mortgages place in 2018 to promote awareness and financial knowledge and tools to choose the most suitable track. These workshops among retirees. As part of this activity, Bank representatives are attended by Bank customers, even those who eventually delivered talks at multiple cinemas across the country, and decide to take out a mortgage elsewhere. We see it as our Bank customers were invited to Bank branches to receive inresponsibility to provide the best tools for making such decisions, person training about digital banking. Later, the Bank produced for anyone who wishes to do so. In 2018 we conducted 10 training brochures on this topic, to help Bank customers – user mortgage workshops, attended by 940 participants, of guide for Mizrahi-Tefahot website, user guide for Mizrahiwhich 8 workshops customized for the Jewish Orthodox Tefahot app and details about service stations at branches. In sector. 2019, the Bank would continue this activity, at branches and on the website. At the end of this process, we conducted a “Money Road” training kit – A program which provides youth participant satisfaction survey, with the activity rated highly by with training on financial issues. This kit is available on the Bank respondents (rating scale from 1 to 5, with 5 being the highest website, to assist a wider audience of teachers, instructors, rating): counselors etc. to learn the content of this package and to train 77 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Clarity of information provided during meetings and how Mizrahi-Tefahot Small Business College in cooperation helpful is this information for using digital services – 4.5. with the Israeli Management Center (“MIL”) – the Small Customer ability to use digital services after the meetings Business College, operated by the Bank together with the Israeli – 4.4. Management Center (“MIL”) offers two courses: a marketing course and a financial course. Each course consists of five Reinforce financial education for students and relations sessions. Bank customers pay to attend these courses at with institutions of higher education – The Bank intensified links with institutions of higher education, by co-operating with colleges and universities, delivering lectures to students by volunteer employees and managers and by providing scholarships for students at several universities and colleges in financial fields of study. The Bank offers workshops on correct financial conduct for students, as part of the Tel Hai College Financial Counseling Center for Students “Breathe easy at Tel Hai College”, created in 2015 and sponsored by the Bank. This center employs students who have received a tuition scholarship and financial training from the Bank, and also delivers individual workshops and meetings to raise awareness of this topic. Reinforce financial education for students In 2018, we delivered workshops on correct financial conduct attended by 70 students. Furthermore, in 2018, the Bank price subsidized by the bank. awarded 90 scholarships to outstanding students from Financial meetings at branches throughout Israel – In disadvantaged populations (of Ethiopian descent, Jewish 2018, as part of the “Let us meet at Mizrahi-Tefahot” program, Orthodox, etc.) and as part of the link with Sapir College, 22 financial meetings were held at branches throughout the the Bank expanded training of school students in Sderot by country, in which 789 participants took part. The meetings were students who received scholarships from the Bank. held in the evening, in a relaxed, pleasant atmosphere, and included lectures on deposits and savings, retirement advice, mortgages, family economics and capital market investment. 78 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance “Let us meet on the international stage” – a series of Promoting Education And meetings for the business sector and for companies with foreign trade experts – In December 2017 we launched a Society pilot for specific business-oriented meetings. The series of In 2018, the Bank continued to promote education meetings on foreign trade issues takes place in the Bank’s and society through the following activities: business centers (in Haifa, Netanya, Petah Tikva and Beer Community Leadership Development Center in Akko – Sheva). In each branch, a series of three different meetings The Bank sponsored, for the third year, creation of the takes place, on topics relevant to foreign trade. The content of Community Leadership Development Center in Akko, jointly these meetings was adapted to businesses and companies and with the Administrative Excellence Institution in Israel. The participation at these meetings is open to the general public Center develops, promotes and empowers a cadre of young at no cost. In 2018, we conducted 10 custom meetings for leaders in Northern Israel, who are committed to influencing businesses on the world of foreign trade, attended by 360 and community leadership, in their communities and throughout participants. Israeli society. Promoting financial education at Bank Yahav “Birthright” – Project Birthright is the most successful educational project in the Jewish world. The project objective “Another Lesson” – As part of volunteer work by Bank Yahav is to reinforce Jewish identity and links to Israel among Jewish employees with the “Another Lesson” NGO, 112 employees youngsters from around the world. The Bank has chosen volunteered in 2018 to deliver 12 courses throughout Israel, to include employees in accompanying Project Birthright imparting knowledge and tools for smart financial management, groups. The Bank, together with Project Birthright, identified 20 to 250 children. employees to join in accompanying 20 Project Birthright groups, where group members are graduates employed by various companies and organizations around the world, speakers of English, Russian and Spanish, aged 24-32. Bank employees who took part in this project joined the group members for a weekend, participated with them in all activities and represented the labor market in Israel. 79 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Gathering the remains – In 2018, Bank Mizrahi-Tefahot took part in a national campaign, in co-operation with Yad VaShem, to collect and save items and testimony from the Holocaust. As part of this activity, the Bank asked all employees and customers to document and record testimonies of Holocaust survivors, in order to tell their personal story and to preserve it for future generations. Landmark events in Israeli society – Bank Mizrahi-Tefahot promotes initiatives among employees to reinforce their sense of belonging to this country, acting to celebrate special events on the calendar, such as ceremonies for the Holocaust memorial day at Bank facilities, packing food packages during the month of Ramadan, taking part and making a donation for the “Lights of Hope flag” project of NGO Elem on Independence Day and so forth. Promoting creativity and culture – “Shenkar Flowers” – Supporting 80 teenagers with artistic skills, training them over the school year, through students from Shenkar College. Scholarships for students of Ethiopian origin – This year, as well, the Bank continued to provide scholarships for students of Ethiopian origin, as part of the connection with the Feuerstein Institute and the Hebrew University, established in 2014. 80 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance “Let Us Meet Facebook page, and is provided to customers and participants in previous events through a dedicated newsletter. Naturally, Bank employees, At Mizrahi-Tefahot” their families and friends are also invited to attend these meetings. Bank branches are not merely a financial center, but also a meeting In 2018 there were 96,526 visits to the “Let us place. Aiming to be a human bank that strives to bring our customers closer to the Bank and to Bank branches, the Bank has created a meet” website! social project designed to empower, enrich and bring residents in In 2018, 161 meetings took place at 26 major branches around Israel, the vicinity of Bank branches to meet. including meetings designated for the Arab sector and for the Jewish Orthodox sector, with content customized for these target audiences. As part of the “Let us meet at Mizrahi-Tefahot” project, a wide range These meetings were attended by 8,620 participants. This compares of activities are being offered at key Bank branches, by leading to 157 meetings held in 2017, attended by 7,100 participants. lecturers in their fields. These meetings are devoted to topics of general interest and enjoyment, are held in the evening in a relaxed In addition to these activities, 32 custom meetings of “Let us meet atmosphere and customers of all banks, residents of the neighborhood – Sixties” were held in 2018. and the general public are invited to attend at no cost. Multiple “Let us meet” activities These are branches where “Let us meet at 180 157 161 Mizrahi-Tefahot” activities took place in 2018: 150 130 145 120 North Region: Akko Nahariya Migdal Haemeq Kiryat Atta # # # Sharon Region: Ir Yamim Um El Fahem Hadera Raanana # # # 90 Dan Region: Marom Nave Rosh Haayin Bar Ilan Qafr # # # 60 Qasem Givat Shmuel RC Tarfon RC Petach Tikva Yehuda # # # 30 Region: RC Jerusalem Geula Beit Shemesh South Region: # 0 Rehovot Yavne Barnea Ashkelon Derech Metzada (BS) # # # 2015 2016 2017 2018 Central Region: Kikar Hamedina Ramat Aviv Kugel Holon # # The various activities are widely acclaimed, as reflected in participant A dedicated website is provided for this project, listing information about numbers and in very high satisfaction ratings for these meetings, lecturers, lectures and activities for different audiences. Information as reflected in feedback received at the end of each meeting – In about the project is also available on the Bank’s main website and 2018, similarly to 2017, satisfaction with the meetings remained high and was rated 4.8 out of 5. 81 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Refreshing The Content adapted to retiree, along with general interest lectures. In 2018, in addition to regular project activities, three series of meetings These activities were attended by 1,667 people, more than took place with a unique concept: twice their number last year (then attended by 700 people). Participants rated the activity very highly, both for content and Activity “Celebrating Israel’s 70th” – In March-May, at organization. various branches, lectures were delivered by speakers whose personal story is directly linked to the State of Israel in various “Let us meet” in the Arab sector and in the Jewish Orthodox domains (sports, culture, defense and stories of a personal sector – In 2018 special activities were organized for the Arab nature). sector and the Jewish sector, as part of the “Let us meet at Mizrahi-Tefahot” project, adapting the content and lecturers to Activity “Public choice” – In June-July, web users voted on the target audience. In this context, we conducted another 10 the lecture topics they would be interested in hearing, and in activities for the Arab sector at our branches in Um El Fahem, October the selected lectures were delivered based on their Kfar Kassem, Akko and Shefaram, as well as 15 activities for votes. the Jewish Orthodox sector at our branches in Tarfon Business Activity “Let us meet in the neighborhood for the culture Center in Bney Brak, Bet Shemesh and Geula in Jerusalem. and creativity month” – In November, branches held cultural meetings consisting of discussions, lectures and intimate performances by Israeli artists and authors. Meetings Customized For Different Target Audiences “Let us meet – Sixties “ – Understanding the needs of customers, we expanded the range of activities and adapted these meetings to retirees. Thus, we developed the series of meetings “Let us meet – Sixties”. In 2018, we conducted 32 customized, relevant activities for retirees at 8 designated branches. These meetings included banking lectures as well as non-banking lectures on topics 82 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Community Involvement At Bank Support for the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation in Yahav Israel in their summer camp. Participation in the Tour De TROM bicycle rally, in co-operation Empowering Youth of Ethiopian Descent – In June 2018, the with “ILAN” NGO. ZOOM Leadership Program was completed at the Branco Weiss school in Bet Shemesh. This program was created and delivered Volunteer work at kindergartens for children with special needs by the Fidel NGO, including development of a sense of identity and and for children at risk. leadership among youths of the Ethiopian community, meetings with Painting the homes of elderly people and volunteer work with role models and guest lecturers, as well as academic assistance Holocaust survivors. in core studies. Collecting and donating food, school bags, costumes, coats In 2018, Bank Yahav also conducted these activities: and blankets. Established and assisted basketball teams for youth at risk, Visits to hospitals’ oncology, geriatric and children wards. in co-operation with HaPoel Yahav Jerusalem. Donation of equipment, furniture and computers. “Adopt an apartment” project – Joint activities with persons with mental disabilities, in co-operation with NGO AKIM in Jerusalem. Established and assisted cycling groups for children at risk, in cooperation with the “Shimshon Riders” NGO. Funding of judo and basketball classes at the SHALVE Jerusalem center for children and youth at risk and for children with disabilities. Support and assistance for boarding schools of “HaMifal” NGO for training of Israeli children. Support and guidance for youth in disadvantaged neighborhoods, in cooperation with “The sky is the limit” NGO. 83 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Community Involvement At Total investment consists of total charitable donations, in cash and Overseas Affiliates cash-equivalents, and costs associated with Bank activity in the community, which exceeds NIS 10 million (NIS 10,530,281), as well Group activity in the USA (Los Angeles branch) in the community as the monetary value of employees’ volunteer hours, valued at NIS is focused on these activities: 5.6 million (NIS 5,596,825)1. In addition to monetary donations, the Bank also sometimes donates equipment and infrastructure. In this 1. Volunteering in the Community – In 2018, 10 employees of context, Bank Yahav contributed furniture and computer equipment our US affiliate volunteered for 60 hours in their local community. valued at NIS 170 thousand. 2. Donations to social NGOs that support social businesses and disadvantaged populations, to promote financial education, to Total Group investment in the community promote education and social activity, and to empower children (NIS in millions) and youth. In 2018, the contribution amounted to USD 40,000. 18 16 In 2018, our London affiliate donated USD 6,100 to social organizations 14 that support small businesses and disadvantaged populations 12 4.6 4.7 5.5 and to promote other social issues. 10 4.2 4.27 4.4 8 Investing In The 6 9.7 10 10.5 4 8 8.4 8.5 Community 2 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Donation in cash-equivalent enployee volunteer work Donations in cash and cash-equivalent In 2018, total investment in social community activities by the Group amounted to NIS 16.1 million, compared Emplpyees Volunteer Work to NIS 14.7 million in 2017 (9.5% growth). In 2018, Group employees volunteered 28,691 hours for the community, compared with 28,834 hours in 2017, in 171 community and social organizations, projects and ventures. 1. The value of employee volunteer hours grew in 2018, even though the number of volunteer hours decreased by 0.5%, since the hourly wage in the Group increased. 84 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Involvement With Cooperation, Dialogue And Feedback The outline of activities and involvement in the community is formulated through ongoing dialogue with social organizations and community partners. In this way, the group identifies needs, renews the social involvement program every year, and maximizes its resource investment for the community. Moreover, all projects are subject to close monitoring and assistance by the Bank, to ensure that charitable donations end up where intended. The Bank is in constant contact with the welfare and education departments at many local authorities across Israel, in order to develop projects and to identify social organizations that may be adopted by Bank units, as part of their regular Local community involvement. Together with these, the Bank reviews and plans the investment plan for the relevant venture, authorities such as adoption of welfare daytime clubs in Ramat Gan by Bank units, or sponsoring of municipal programs, such as the local leadership program in Akko or the social film festival in Lod. “Partners by Choice” – This project allows Bank customers to take part in voting on which NGOs, that provide for children and teenagers, would receive a Bank donation of NIS 500 thousand. In this project, now in its eleventh year running, the Bank Trade contacts its customers and asks them to vote for their preferred NGO. The Bank and the selected NGOs deliver joint projects receivables designed for the benefit of children and teenagers. In 2018, customers chose the following NGOs: Or Yarok, Or Shalom, Enosh, Shanti House, Israel Cancer Association, Zichron Menachem, Krembo Wings, Ezer MeZion and Ezra Lemarpe. “Your Vote Counts” – This project allows Bank employees to take part in the decision as to which NGOs would participate in the project and which ones would benefit from the Bank’s contribution amounting in total to NIS 100 thousand. The Employees Bank and the selected NGOs deliver joint projects designed for the benefit of youth at risk and persons with special needs. In 2018, employees chose the following NGOs: ALYN hospital, Larger than Life, Friends of Medicine, First Hug, Ahava Children and Youth Village, Lend a Hand, Pa’amonim, Refuah VeChaim, Simcha Layeled and SHEKEL. Social In order to identify needs, the Bank is in constant dialogue with social NGOs and other organizations. As a result, we initiate NGOs and projects in response to these needs, such as the “Partners by choice” project, “Friends of medicine” and “Green Light for organizations Children”, which were described in detail in this chapter. 85 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Measuring Activity Effectiveness And Impact with the Bank unit. The data collected in 2018 indicates that satisfaction of social organizations where Bank employees In addition to measuring satisfaction with activities for the community, volunteer remains very high, with demand to expand operations the Bank also measures the effectiveness and impact of projects in with additional volunteering employees. which the Bank is involved: Lesson learning process – Upon completing a major activity, Surveys and feedback questionnaires – The Bank sends out the lesson learning process takes place with all relevant parties, surveys to relevant respondents after activities are completed, based on feedback received from people in the field. After to evaluate participant satisfaction in the interest of constant the lesson learning process, changes and improvements are improvement. Thus, for example, surveys are sent to NGOs made to future planned activities. that took part in the “Heart-felt creation for the community” fair, feedback questionnaires are sent to Bank employees who Activity and outcome review – For major projects conducted took part in the Tour De TROM bicycle rally, and a dialogue by the Bank, after the activity we receive reports to summarize takes place with NGO managers who took part in the seminar the activity outcome vs. pre-defined goals. For example, after delivered to them. The Bank also maintains a constant the year’s activity and support for social-oriented businesses dialogue with representatives of the social organizations where by the “Business with value” project, we monitored the employees do volunteer work in the “Adoptive Units” project, development and improvement of those businesses by using through questionnaires and visits which review, inter alia, their different parameters. The findings showed that ventures which satisfaction with the volunteer work and with their relationship participated in this project have increased their average monthly revenues, profitability and headcount. 86 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Communicating About Activities And During the corporate social responsibility week held by the Invitation To Join Them Bank in June 2018, photos and video clips were screened at key locations around the Bank, showcasing the Bank’s activity The Bank communicates its social activities to employees and within the community. customers and invites them to take part in various activities: Bank website – Activities are listed on the Bank website, as a platform for including customers in various social projects (examples: Invitation to the “Heart-felt creation for the community” fair, enrollment in the Jerusalem marathon, a project for collecting medications for the “Friends in Medicine” NGO, promotion of the ZAZIM project, publication of the gift food fair around the Purim holiday, publication of a call for action for the “Business with value” project. Intra-organizational dialogue – The Bank maintains a constant dialogue with employees, through internal communications and by listing the diverse activities on the “Mizrahi-Tefahot in the Community” website. Calendar – A calendar is printed annually and distributed to all Bank employees. This calendar lists the projects and activities by employees who volunteer throughout the year. Recognition for volunteer employees – Bank management values and appreciates employee involvement in the community and regards this as part of the organization’s values. Once recognition for volunteer employees every two years, an evening of appreciation is held for volunteer employees and during the annual balance sheet conference, management recognizes outstanding branches and units for their contribution to the community. 87 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Reinforcing The Bank generates direct economic value to its stakeholders and indirect economic value to companies and suppliers Israel’s Economy in the Bank’s indirect supply chain. As part of orderly and responsible management of the Bank’s supply chain, the Through Bank is in constant dialogue with its suppliers, through in-person meetings and visits of Bank representatives to Responsible suppliers, designed to verify, inter alia, aspects of maintaining basic human rights in the supplier treatment of their staff. Supply Chain Every contract signed by the Bank includes a clause whereby the supplier or contractor commits to lawfully employ their Management staff, pay their wages, ensure their rights subject to all binding legal norms and avoid any type of discrimination. Furthermore, as part of the considerations for selecting suppliers, the supplier’s approach towards aspects of environmental responsibility are taken into consideration. Responsible supply chain management is applied as follows: Control of lawful employment by suppliers – Visits to premises of major suppliers of the Bank, review of these suppliers based on criteria specified by the Bank. Any supplier that fails to meet the criteria is liable to ₪ have their contract terminated. 88 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Control of outsourced employees’ employment Responsible Supply Chain terms – The Bank ensures that employment terms of Management outsourced employees would be in line with all laws Mizrahi-Tefahot Group has significant impact on Israel’s economy, and regulations with regard to security, cleaning and and as such it attaches great importance to orderly and responsible catering staff. This is verified by a qualified payroll supply chain management. In conformity with Group policy and its responsible supply chain concept, the Group generally prefers to do auditor, in conformity with statutory provisions, business with local suppliers. The Bank has an agreed payment policy including requests made by employees seeking with suppliers and the Bank ensures timely payment to suppliers, specific verification. as agreed and committed to ahead of time. Promoting local purchasing – Given its responsibility Preference For Local Suppliers to reinforcing the Israeli economy, it is Bank policy to The Group has a policy in place for preferring local suppliers. The prefer local suppliers (“Made in Israel”), so that the Group receives services from 3,300 active suppliers (including 870 great majority of purchasing by the Bank is made at Bank Yahav), of which 380 new suppliers. Of these, 95% are Israeli suppliers and of those, 18% are from outlying areas. from local suppliers. These are construction and maintenance contractors, landlords and Prioritizing suppliers – Being accountable to Israeli management companies, equipment suppliers (office equipment, printers, auto leasing, telephones, computers, computer equipment society, the Bank maintains a policy that prioritizes etc.) and service providers (consultants, designers, supervisors, suppliers who contribute to the community and computer and information security service providers and cleaning operate based on an internal Code of Ethics. Also service providers). giving priority to procurement of equipment with a In 2018, total purchase orders created by the Group for suppliers high energy efficiency rating. amounted to NIS 1.2 billion. Procurement is managed at the Bank by the Logistics Department of the Human Resources and Administration Division. 89 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Composition of Group procurement by area Prioritizing responsible suppliers – The Bank’s procurement policy 45% stipulates a mandatory condition, whereby a business license and 40% 39% permits must be in place and appropriate employment conditions, 35% including compliance with protective legislation and safeguarding 30% employee rights. We take into consideration different parameters 25% 21% for our suppliers. For example, does the business comply with work 20% health and safety regulations. Considerations for supplier selection 15% include parameters such as contribution to the community and 10% 7% 8% 8% 3% 6% 6% adhering to a Code of Ethics. 5% 1% 0% Security Other Culture Construction HR Marketing IT General Logistics Ensuring Human Rights And Compliance With The Law and and services well-being maintenance The Bank only contracts with suppliers who operate in compliance with all relevant laws and regulations. Furthermore, the Bank, Composition of Group suppliers by when signing agreements with suppliers, makes sure that such geographic location agreements include a requirement for suppliers to fully discharge their obligations as employers towards their employees or anyone North Center on behalf thereof, including the suppliers’ obligations to comply with 11% 7% Jerusalem region all statutory provisions applicable to employers with regard to their 11% South employees and laws which govern employment and employee rights. 72% 90 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Supplier Control As from 2013, the Bank’s Logistics Division Manager and Purchasing Manager visit premises of major Bank suppliers. Over the years, we have visited all our major suppliers, with some suppliers also re-visited. This visit is accompanied by a questionnaire, designed to test suppliers based on the aforementioned criteria. Any supplier that fails to meet the criteria is liable to have their contract terminated. Control of employment terms of outsourced employees – In accordance with the law, the Group makes sure that the employment terms of outsourced employees (cleaning, security and catering staff) are verified by a certified wage reviewer. As at the end of 2018, all the suppliers with whom the Bank works in these areas complied with the provisions of the law that were examined. Employees can use an anonymous, discreet mechanism to report violations and non-compliance by their employers. Control of suppliers with regard to corruption risk – The Bank performs risk assessments, including with regard to corruption risk, among suppliers and sub-contractors engaged on a regular basis. The final invoices from these contractors for refurbishment work and cleaning service invoices are specifically and regularly reviewed by the supervisor in charge of these operations. In addition, significant contracts signed with architects and supervisors include a specific clause forbidding them from accepting any direct or indirect benefit from any third party. and online banking risk. Safety – The Group constantly acts to control and guide employees and suppliers on safety issues. 91 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Looking Forward Achievement Of 2018 Goals Goals For 2019 ‫מיגור העוני‬ Co-operation with NGO Pa’amonim to enhance Goal Status financial education. Increase activities of “Let us meet at Mizrahi‫חינוך איכותי‬ Expand the Leading Neighborhood project in the Done Talpiot neighborhood. Tefahot” by 5% Develop a financial education training kit for ‫צמצום אי‬ Continue “Let us meet at Mizrahi-Tefahot” activities Done ‫השיוויון‬ fourth-sixth graders and create in-depth activities on general topics and on Expand the Leading Neighborhood project in financial topics customized for various segments. Done the Ramot neighborhood Expand the number of participants in the “Young Expand the number of participants in the Young ‫שותפות‬ Summer” project by 5%. Done ‫להשגת היעדים‬ Summer project by 10% Produce an evening honoring employees who Produce an evening honoring employees who Done volunteer in the community in 2019. volunteer in the community in 2018 Random visits to 5 major suppliers Done 92 Investing In Employees 93 63.5% women Of all Group employees Investing In Employees Overview 286,590 training hours 50% female Delivered to all Group employees in 2018 managers Of all Group managers 45.6 hours per worker on average Increase in average training 42% female hours per employee senior executive at Bank Mizrahi-Tefahot 95% 6,444 employees promoted were employed in the Group in 2018 Average age 40.2 internally of Bank employees 12.7years Employees and managers promoted to management positions, as percentage of Bank employees Average seniority at 75% Mizrahi-Tefahot Bank of Bank employees with a university degree 94 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Mizrahi-Tefahot Bank management regards all Bank employees and managers as a key component for achieving its business strategy and growth objectives for Employees operations and profitability. Human resources at the Bank are managed on two levels: Services to individual employees, from recruiting through ongoing services and up to retirement. Human resource development at the Bank in all relevant aspects. This area is managed by the Human Resources and Administration Division. Group commitment to all its employees, in Israel and world-wide, Number Of Group Employees: is reflected by development of a pleasant work environment with 6,185 6,354 6,444 fair employment terms for all employees. The Group’s capacity to 7,000 6,063 84 listen to needs of its employees and consequently, to create a work 6,000 78 82 82 890 904 place which provides a solution over time – turns the Group into a 850 906 5,000 high-quality and sought after place of employment. 4,000 Further Expanding The Family 3,000 5,368 5,470 2,000 5,135 5,197 Mizrahi-Tefahot Group continues to grow from year to year, and 1,000 therefore the number of Group employees grows accordingly. As 0 of the end of 2018, the Group employed 6,444 employees and 2015 2016 2017 2018 managers: Mizrahi-Tefahot (including Technology Division) Yahav Overseas affiliates Total 95 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Total Group employees (at end of 2018) Age Of Employees And Managers The average age of Bank employees (excluding the Technology 13 Division) is 40.2, and the average age of all Group employees is 890 84 15 40.7. Most Group employees (58%) are aged 31-50; 21% of Group 5,470 56 employees are aged 30 or younger and 21% of Group employees are aged 51 or older. 2017 2018 Yahav London Age Percentage Percentage Overseas affiliates Zurich Group Mizrahi-Tefahot (including Technology Division) Los Angeles Female Male Of Total Female Male Of Total Employees Employees Up to 30 1,028 343 22% 1,025 301 21% NonHuman 2017 2018 31-50 1,821 999 44% 1,890 1,058 46% managerial Resource position Data Female Male Total Female Male Total 51 and 575 372 15% 565 357 14% higher Managers 590 626 1,216 614 636 1,250 Up to 30 15 3 0.30% 12 7 0.29% Employees 3,424 1,714 5,138 3,479 1,715 5,194 Group 31-50 440 337 12% 454 359 13% managers Headquarters 1,331 1,059 2,390 1,364 1,086 2,450 51 and 135 286 7% 147 269 6% higher Branches 2,683 1,281 3,964 2,729 1,265 3,994 Up to 30 1,043 346 22% 1,037 308 21% Total 4,014 2,340 6,354 4,093 2,351 6,444 Total 31-50 2,261 1,336 57% 2,344 1,417 58% employees Of all Group employees, 93% were full-time employees and the 51 and others were part-time employees. Most of the part-time employees 710 658 21% 712 626 21% higher are students, who work at the Banking Center (call center). 96 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Percentage of Group employees by age group Number Of Percentage Region In Israel Of Total 100% Employees Employees 90% 22% 22% 21% 21% 80% South 719 11% 70% 60% Jerusalem region 1,186 18% 50% 54% 55% 57% 58% 40% North 663 10% 30% Israel 20% Shfela 1,177 18% 10% 24% 23% 22% 21% 0% Sharon 916 14% 2015 2016 2017 2018 Up to 30 31-50 51 and higher Tel Aviv metro area 1,699 26% Total – Israel 6,360 98.7% Composition By Geography UK 56 0.9% overseas 98.7% of Group employees live in Israel (6,360 employees and Switzerland 15 0.2% affiliates managers), 26% in the Central region, 18% in Jerusalem and surrounding areas, 11% in the Southern region, 18% in the USA 13 0.2% Shfela region and 10% in the Northern region. Total – overseas affiliates 84 1.3% 1.3% of Group employees are employed by overseas affiliates (84 employees and managers) – in London, Switzerland and Los Angeles. Total – Mizrahi-Tefahot Group 6,444 100.0% The great majority of these are local employees. Strict hiring of locals for management and other roles at Bank overseas affiliates. Thus, local employees account for two thirds of management at the Switzerland subsidiary; 90% of management at the London branch; and 100% of management at the Los Angeles branch. 97 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Mizrahi-Tefahot Group employees in Israel by Percentage of employees with a university geography, in 2018: degree Percentage of total 76% 75% employees 75% 74% 30% 74% 73% 73% 26% 73% 72% 25% 72% 71% 71% 70% 20% 18% 18% 70% 69% 15% 69% 15% 68% 10% 11% 10% 67% 66% 5% 2015 2016 2017 2018 Group Bank Mizrahi-Tefahot (excluding Technology Division) 0% North South Sharon Shfela Jerusalem Tel Aviv region metro area Contractors Education As a rule, it is Bank policy that each Bank employee is an employee The share of Group employees who hold a university degree grows of the Bank for all intents and purposes from Day 1, therefore the annually – In 2018, the share of Bank Mizrahi-Tefahot employees Bank does not employ any contractors through service providers (excluding the Technology Division) who hold a university degree or labor companies. This policy also applies, naturally, to banking was 75% and 9.5% were university students. For the Group in center employees, most of whom are students characterized by 2018, the share of Group employees who hold a university a higher turnover. However, from time to time, the Bank receives degree was 73% (compared to 71% in 2017). services from labor companies, to support project operation for a limited time – and only a small number of such contractors. 98 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Employee Turnover 20171 2018 The Group strives to maintain a low turnover rate among employees, Employees Employees and even to reduce it. Employee turnover is affected by Bank policy And And Employees Employees of employing all of its employees as regular employees, including Age Group And Managers And Managers Who Who banking center employees, most of whom are students characterized Managers Departed Managers Departed Hired By Hired By by high turnover. Therefore, the turnover rate at these centers is (Terminated (Terminated The Bank The Bank relatively high and affects the turnover rate for the entire Group. / Resigned / / Resigned / Retired) Retired) Turnover rate for the Group in 2018 (excluding Banking Centers) Up to 30 89 66 102 54 was 8%, compared to 7.4% in 2017. The overall turnover rate for Mizrahi-Tefahot Group (including Banking Centers) in 2018 was Male 31-50 84 70 111 88 10.7%, compared to 9.4% in 2017. The turnover is relatively high among employees aged 30 or lower, which may be explained by the Above 51 6 44 6 58 fact that a significant proportion of these are call center employees, Total – male 179 180 219 200 which, as stated, are regular Bank employees. Up to 30 211 128 227 147 The table shows the turnover rates for each age bracket, an Female 31-50 92 104 94 114 indication that the Group is a constantly desirable work place for young employees. Data in this table excludes banking center Above 51 3 24 4 58 employees. Total – women 306 256 325 319 Total – up to 30 300 194 329 201 Total – 31-50 176 174 205 202 Total – 51 and higher 9 68 10 116 Total 485 436 544 519 1. Data in the 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report included data for call centers, and are therefore not in line with data presented in this Corporate Social Responsibility Report. 99 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance In 2018, 544 new employees and managers joined the Group, of which 219 men and 325 women. In this year, 519 employees and managers departed the Group, of which 200 men and 319 women. These figures reflect success in retention of employees and managers, along with expansion and new positions available for hiring, mostly for new hires starting out on their banking career. Seniority – 36% of employees are new employees at the Group (up to 5 years), along with employees who have been with us for over 21 years and constitute 23% of the workforce. The diversity of veteran and experienced employees, alongside new and young ones, allows for preservation of knowledge, organizational memory and professionalism over many years, along with new ideas, growth and development. Average Seniority At The Group Is 12.8 Years Composition of Group employee seniority as of 2018 23% Up tp 5 years 36% 6-10 years 11-20 years 21 years and over 20% 22% 100 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Promoting Fair Work Environment And Employment Terms As part of Bank commitment to its staff, a special policy document was created with regard to care for human resources. This commitment is reflected by implementation of three key principles in Bank operations: Creating a respectful work environment – The Caring for employee well-being – Employee wellBank regards its employees and managers as being is managed as follows: Creating well-being partners in the Bank’s success and therefore strives support for Bank employees and their families, to promote them and to create a supportive, respectful an extensive health care plan for employees, an work environment. organizational culture which supports recognition Caring for employee rights – The Bank ensures and allows for optional leisure activities – based the rights of all employees, as well as their right to on the understanding that such balance generates join a labor union. The Bank offers its employees value for both the employee and the Bank. better working conditions than required by labor laws. 101 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Ensuring employee rights – The Bank maintains a Tefahot employees, 90% of Technology Division employees and 89% of Bank Yahav employees. All other Bank employees continuous dialogue with employees and with employee are employed in conformity with individual employment contracts. representation and ensures that employee rights are Bank employees are represented by one of three different Employee maintained. Labor relations with managers and employees Unions: Mizrahi-Tefahot Employee Union, Council of Managers and are governed by the collective agreement with each Authorized Signatories and Mizrahi-Tefahot Technology Division sector’s representative labor union. Ltd. Union. The Bank informs employees in advance of organizational Bank managers are aware of the guidelines and procedures that changes, so that all parties involved may find the optimal ensure operations of these Employee Unions and act accordingly. solution in full co-operation. All re-organization takes place The following key events in management-employee relations took place in 2018: with professional assistance, sharing change leadership with managers. Upon termination, the advance notice Economic Arbitration 2005-2015 – In 2018, the economic arbitration for 2005-2015 continued between Mizrahi-Tefahot period takes into consideration the employee’s needs and management and employee representation. The arbitration system constraints – but no less than required by law. decision was made public in January 2019. Collective bargaining agreement with Managers’Association Ensuring Employee Rights – In December 2018, a collective bargaining agreement was signed with the Managers’Association, effective through 2022. The Bank ensures the rights of employees – and human rights in Collective bargaining agreement with the Technology general. The Bank does not employ children nor practices forced Division Employee Union – In August 2018, a collective labor. Moreover, the Bank ensures that suppliers engaged by the bargaining agreement was signed with the Technology Division Bank are also meticulous about safeguarding employee rights. Employee Union, effective through 2021. Management-Employee Relations And Ensuring The Right Of Association1 Collective bargaining agreements apply to 94% of Bank MizrahiGRI index response 102-41 102 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Ensuring Wages And Social Benefits In Conformity With Legal Requirements Compliance with legal requirements – In all areas of operation, including at its overseas affiliates, the Bank adheres to equal pay to employees in conformity with local employment laws and consequently also complies with the binding minimum pay. Note that for employees Mizrahi-Tefahot Group Employees – Parental employed under the collective bargaining agreement, pay is updated Leave Data1 annually. The Group also adheres to all statutory requirements with regard to taking parental leave, work hours and other labor laws. 2017 2018 Female Male Total Female Male Total Increased social benefits – The vacation pay to Bank employees Took parental leave 498 5 503 533 4 537 is higher than required by law, as is their number of sick leave days. Of which, number of employees Parental Leave – By Law, Employees Returning From Parental who resumed their work after 244 5 249 239 4 243 Leave Are Assigned Their Old Job, And Any Changes Are Made completing parental leave In Strict Coordination With The Employee. In 2018, 533 Female Took parental leave during the Employees And 4 Male Employees Went On Parental Leave, And year and remained on parental 239 Female Employees And 4 Male Employees Returned From leave / unpaid leave at the end 265 265 Parental Leave. of the calendar year2 Number of employees who took parental leave in 2017 and 235 235 219 3 222 remained employed 12 months after resuming their work Took parental leave during the year and chose not to resume 29 29 their work2 1. Data excludes overseas affiliates 2. In 2018, data collection was improved, hence the data is not comparable to previous years 103 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Reducing Wage Gaps 2017 2018 As from October 12, 2016, the maximum remuneration payable to Bank Female Male Total Female Male Total employees is subject to the restrictions stipulated in the Remuneration Fixed 2,822 1,619 4,441 2,872 1,607 4,479 Act (as set forth in the chapter “Commitment to accountable conduct” Provisional 1,022 451 1,473 1,047 451 1,498 – Remuneration Policy, p. 115). Terms of office and employment of Other 170 270 440 174 293 467 the Bank Chairman and of the Bank President & CEO, which have been adapted to limitations stipulated in the Remuneration Act (i.e. the ratio of their anticipated remuneration expense, as defined in Employee Remuneration the Act, to the expense for the lowest remuneration of a full-time position paid by the Bank, directly or indirectly, must be less than The Bank leads multiple measures to remunerate and provide 35), have been approved by the General Meeting of shareholders positive incentives to employees, including: on February 14, 2017. Promotion – Once a year, in accordance with the recommendation of management, the Board of Directors Promoting Employment Security decides on promotions across the organization, based on The Group strives to promote employment security among its performance in the past year. This is done in conformity with employees as follows: the various collective bargaining agreements, for employees and managers employed by individual contract, for managers A. After a relatively short time of only 3 years, the Bank decides based on the agreement signed with them and for tele-bankers to grant tenure to employees, in accordance with the relevant on provisionally employment at the Banking Centers. procedure. As of the end of 2018, 71% of Bank employees have tenure (70% of Group employees). Individual bonus – Once a year, in accordance with the Group’s financial standing and taking into account other B. Career development tracks and creation of a long-term employment business considerations, the Board of Directors decides on horizon for Group employees. bonuses to be awarded, their rate and how the are to be C. The collective bargaining agreement provides a solution in cases distributed. Bonus eligibility and amount are determined, for of downsizing due to streamlining. each employee, based on their achievement of targets and on their supervisors’ recommendation. Part of the bonus is paid uniformly to all employees, and another part is paid based on 104 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance personal performance of the employee and their contribution initiatives for improvement, savings and streamlining”, whose to the Bank’s success. role it is to discuss employees’ suggestions for improvement Wage increase bonus and ROE bonus – The Bank pays and streamlining of work processes. The committee convenes its employees subject to the collective bargaining agreement, quarterly to discuss the suggestions submitted. The best during the term of this agreement, a variable bonus based on suggestions are implemented by the Bank and awards are achievement of return on equity targets. In addition, part of given to those who made these suggestions. These awards the ROW bonus will become fixed as a fixed wage increase, are presented at a grand ceremony, attended by the Bank subject to achievement of minimum ROE. President & CEO. This is a positive tradition very successfully deployed at the Bank, which is an important value in the Bank’s Outstanding employees – The Bank recognizes outstanding organizational culture. employees with special attention. Outstanding employees receive recognition in front of the entire Bank management, in presence In 2018, employees submitted 1,350 improvement of the Bank President & CEO, in an impressive ceremony. suggestions. Outstanding employees are selected by recommendation of Caring For Employee Well-Being their supervisor, their achievements and their contribution to the Bank. Individual awards – The branches offer a program of incentives Employees’ Benefits and remuneration, based on excellence in various benchmarks, The Bank emphasizes three circles that accompany the employee in branch activities and in special drives. Remuneration is throughout their work, professional development, personal joyful typically paid at the branch level and is designated for team occasions and, if needed, in times of crisis and distress. All Bank building and leisure activities for branch employees. Bank employees are entitled to benefits, without distinguishing between headquarters awards individual prizes in recognition of regular and provisional employees. employees who posted outstanding achievements in their work. The work cycle – various benefits upon reaching milestones during employment at the Bank: Upon hiring, upon reaching Efficiency improvement suggestions by employees – tenure, upon promotion, at milestones based on seniority and The Bank attaches great importance to promoting innovative upon approaching retirement. initiatives and in improving work processes and customer service processes. The Bank operates a committee for “promoting Annual Cycle – benefits and gifts for holidays and other events 105 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance based on the calendar In 2018, we also delivered gifts to all for longer than 5 days. The Bank also recognizes those in the Army Bank employees in honor of the 70th Independence Day of reserve at the meeting of all Bank managers. Israel. Israel Trail – Bank employees are invited, once a month and at Employees’ family circle – benefits for life events of employees a nominal cost, to walk the Israel Trail, guided by tour guides. In and their families. This includes gifts given at events such as honor of the 70th Independence Day of Israel, we held special trips birthdays, bar / bat mitzvahs, weddings, births, etc., as well to Reches HaShayarot and to Atlit. We also conducted training and as upon starting in first grade and starting military / national a photography workshop in Mazkeret Batya, a tour of Lachish Park service. during the holiday of Sukkot and a family tour of Lake Nitzanim Park Bank employees also enjoy a range of other benefits: on Election Day. In 2018, 800 employees and family members took part in this activity. Banking benefits – Bank employees also enjoy various benefits in management of their bank account and credit facilities and loans at preferential terms. Benefits for the family – subsidized day care and kindergartens for employees’ children and tuition reimbursement for their children’s higher education. Eligibility for study fund. Help in times of crisis – As part of our concern for the family circle, unit managers, with help from Human Resources, accompany and support the employee and their immediate environment when facing Summer events – In 2018, some 2,500 Bank employees and their difficulties and in times of crisis. In addition to the Bank’s support in families attended a special summer event. crisis situations, a mutual aid fund was established at the initiative Good film club – Employees and their spouses are invited, for of the employees. Employees who wish to do so, pay a modest sum a token cost, once a quarter to watch a selected movie at one of out of their salary into the fund, which helps employees in various several cinemas around the country, along with a lecture and light crisis situations. refreshment. Bank retirees are also invited to take part in this activity, Saluting employees serving on the Military Reserve – In 2018 through the Retiree Council. In 2018, 3,500 employees and family we delivered a gift to employees serving on the Military Reserve members took part in this activity. 106 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Marathon, Marathon to Increase Awareness of Cancer, Lod Maintaining A Marathon and the Tour De Trom bicycle rally, attended by over Healthy Lifestyle 780 employees and their family members. Workplace League – The Bank has 12 sports teams that annually take part in the Workplace League. Some 150 Bank As part of promoting a healthy lifestyle among employees, in employees take active part in Bank teams, practice and 2018 we held healthy cooking workshops at competitions. In 2018, representatives of these teams took 7 different locations across Israel, attended by 350 employees, part in the Eilat Sportiada sports games. We also conducted who received tips on healthy diet and enjoyed the experience a musical soiree for all of the Bank’s sports teams, attended by the Bank President & CEO, to encourage and promote of cooking together. employee participation in these teams. Medical check-ups for all employees aged 40 or over – As part of our concern for the health and well-being of employees, General lectures for employees – During the year, lectures the Bank bears the cost of medical check-ups for all employees about CPR, ergonomics and cyber topics are delivered to aged 40 or older. enhance the general knowledge of employees in these areas. Awareness of disease and plagues – In case of an outbreak Fun team-building days – The Bank makes sure that of disease / plague in Israel, the Bank informs employees on employees go on fun days and team-building activities, which how to protect themselves. Handling of such cases is part of are an opportunity to break out of the routine, relax and rethe Bank’s business continuity plan, in conformity with directives charge. of the Bank of Israel. Gym at the Lod headquarters building – At the Lod Well-being Manager – The Bank appointed a Well-being headquarters building, a gym is available to Bank employees, Manager, tasked with contacting employees who are seriously offering a variety of activities and courses during the week, at ill, supporting their requests and needs and assisting employees a nominal cost. whose family requires financial assistance for medical treatment. Marathons – The Bank encourages employees to take part Blood donation – From time to time, the Bank, in cooperation in marathons around Israel and contributes towards the cost with the Blood Bank, conducts blood donation campaigns of enrollment in these marathons, such as the Jerusalem among Bank employees. 107 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Work-Life Balance Support for caregivers – employees who care for a sick family A proper work-life balance and development of professional skills, member – As a rule, the Bank is considerate of employees and as well as development of personal interests and personal growth is flexible in crisis situations, when employees are required to directly affect employee well-being. Therefore, the Bank encourages care for a sick family member. employees to maintain a balance between work and leisure, provides Vacation pay – Bank employees are eligible to receive vacation training for employees on this subject and ensures that employees pay, at a rate higher than required by law: have free time during the week for their family and other activities: Vacation voucher – Once every year, employees receive a Work week – The work week at the Bank, for a full time position, voucher with a specified value, for booking a vacation in Israel is only 39 hours long, compared to 42 hours as stipulated by or overseas, at their choice. law. Additional paid leave – Employees are granted annual paid leave as required by law and based on seniority, and even longer: Paid leave during Hol HaMoed are only partially deducted from the remaining paid leave days. Non-Jewish employees may take five days off every year, paid by the Bank, during their religious holidays. These days are in addition to holidays according to the Jewish calendar, which are not business days at the Bank. The Bank offers additional paid leave to employees upon their wedding, their child’s birth, Bar-Mitzva (or Bat-Mitzva) and wedding. Regular employees at the Bank who study for a postgraduate degree while working are credited with paid leave upon graduation. 108 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Caring For Employees Approaching Benefits For Bank Yahav Employees And Retirement Retirees As part of its responsible employment policy, the Group cares for Bank Yahav provides these employee benefits: Eligibility for study employees about to reach retirement age (or as part of early retirement fund, summer camp, scholarships, student dormitories, newspapers, agreements): vacation pay, annual bonus, benefits from the well-being Fund and Employees retiring at the legal retirement age – are eligible clothing allowance. They are also eligible to receive benefits and to a pension from the pension fund. Contributions to this fund bonuses on holidays and upon certain events, such as a bonus on behalf of Bank employees are made in conformity with the to mark 25 years of seniority, gifts on holidays, gifts for personal law. events and so forth. Employees retiring before the legal retirement age (early Bank Yahav offers an increased severance pay track for employees retirement) – Employees confirmed for early retirement have taking early retirement. Bank Yahav retirees enjoy various benefits, two tracks available to them: the early retirement track and such as gifts on holidays or birthdays or attending extra-curricular the increased severance pay track. Retiring employees in courses and leisure activities. The Bank also provides a budget for these tracks are also eligible for Bank assistance in financing the Retiree Council and for trips and lectures for Bank retirees. The training courses. Bank offers a contribution towards payment of a retirement advisor’s fee to employees with over 30 years’ service. Employees nearing retirement or early retirement are invited to attend a retirement workshop. In 2018, those retiring were also invited to an experiential tour. Retiring employees are eligible to benefits in account management, holiday gifts as well as cultural events organized by the Retiree Council. In 2018, 55 female and 54 male employees retired after many years of diligent service with the Group. 109 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Absence Data (In Days) In 2018 Military Sick leave Absence rate due Paid leave reserve taken to sick days service Female 54,622 67 47,845 Mizrahi Male 29,492 2,485 15,850 5.0% Tefahot Maintaining Employee Safety Total 84,114 2,552 63,696 The Bank attaches great importance to maintaining employee safety, Female 12,174 11 8,072 health and security – as an integral part of employment conditions Bank Male 4,960 160 2,256 4.6% Yahav and care for Bank employees. The Bank has appointed a special Total 17,134 171 10,328 manager to manage health and safety issues, as required by law. One key aspect of employee safety is road safety. The Bank makes sure to deliver training to employees who use a company car or a leased company car about the car’s safety systems and careful Addressing Distress Situations At The Branch driving. As part of the concern for employee transportation safety, As part of safeguarding employee safety, Bank employees receive the Transportation Safety Officer sends out periodic emails with training on dealing with stress situations at the branch. As part of current updates on winter driving, driving during the holidays etc. training delivered to branch staff when they join the Bank, they receive Work-related accidents down by 63% – in 2018 there were 15 training on conduct during a robbery. The Bank also disseminated work-related accidents on the way to, from, or during work, compared additional material and E-learning kits, delivers training on this topic with 41 in 2017. The Bank will continue to act to further reduce the at branches and conducts debriefing of events. number of accidents in future. Training on handling conflict situations with customers at Bank As from 2016, the Bank sends annually a postcard to employees branches – A workshop was conducted, which provided participants whose children reached the legal driving age, providing tips on with tools and skills for handling conflict situations with customers accompanying a new driver. In this postcard, the Bank provides at Bank branches. This workshop was attended by 100 employees parents of new drivers with tips on the following: Safe driving and who serve as Security Officers, in addition to their role as bankers, adapting your driving to conditions around you. at branches across Israel. 110 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Diversity, Equality The Bank regularly promotes equal opportunity in the workplace. This is based on recognizing the ultimate And Avoiding importance of the value of equality. The Bank does not discriminate against any employee by religion, ethnicity, race, Discrimination In gender, age, place of residence nor any other attributes. This commitment is based on the belief that promoting sector Employment equality in the workplace generates social and economic value for the Bank, for employees and for all of society. Hiring employees of diverse ethnic backgrounds allows Bank customers of these ethnic backgrounds to receive service while recognizing their unique needs and providing them with an appropriate response. Diversity is reflected in being able hire any person to work for the Bank; equality is reflected in providing equal conditions to all Bank employees. Workplace Diversity Employees from Jewish Orthodox sector – As part of its strategy to create a diverse work environment, the Bank acts to include employees The Bank actively recruits employees from various demographics and from the Jewish Orthodox sector . As part of this effort, the Bank joins sectors that are under-represented in the labor market as a strategic forces with Bereshit, the employment guidance institute in Bney Brak; step, and to this end also cooperates with designated NGOs and other Kivun, the employment guidance institute for the Jewish Orthodox organizations. The Bank adapts its screening tests in the hiring process public in Jerusalem; and with Mafteah, development centers for Jewish (conducted at external, professional screening centers) to candidates Orthodox employment of JDC Israel. The Bank also participates in from these demographics – usually by providing additional time and employment fairs designed for hiring from the Jewish Orthodox sector. the option to be tested in their mother tongue (such as Arabic). Including at Lev Academic Center in Jerusalem and at the Jewish 111 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Orthodox campus of Ono Academic campus. The Bank also uses Employees from the Arab sector – As part of its strategy to create the Glatt Jobs website, dedicated to job searching for the Jewish a diverse work environment, in 2018 the Bank continued to recruit Orthodox population. These hiring methods are used in conformity employees from the Arab sector . As part of this recruitment effort, with Bank needs. the Bank co-operated with NGOs “Kav Mashve” and “Al Fanar”, that A dedicated team consisting of 20 Jewish Orthodox women was refer Arab candidates to the Bank. established in 2017 at the Banking Center (call center). Most of Additional paid leave for non-Jewish employees – Employing the candidates have no background and experience, and receive staff from different sectors requires a work environment that reflects their banking training on the job. When establishing the team and cultural sensitivity and adapts itself to the religious and cultural needs throughout their employment, the required adjustments were made of its employees. Therefore, as from 2018, non-Jewish employees to include them in the workplace, by way of adjusted shift times and may take advantage of five paid leave days at the Bank’s expense work environment. during their holidays, in addition to holidays according to the Jewish calendar, which are not business days at the Bank. Integration of employees with disabilities – the Bank is committed to promoting equal opportunity employment for persons with disabilities. Inclusion of students in a special In order to comply with statutory provisions of the Employment of the Disabled Act, the Bank put in place a strategy for including employees program of the Technology Division with disabilities and locating relevant positions for them in different Since 2015, the Technology Division has been running a trainee units. The Bank has appointed an officer responsible for employment program for computer science students. Each class runs for 4 of persons with disabilities. We also maintained contact with the years, training select students on specialized computer disciplines Support Center for Employers of Disabled Persons, at the Ministry required for the Division. The program includes in-person studies, of Economics – as well as with various NGOs which specialize in a significant project, a period of on-the-job training and a mentoring assisting in placement of such employees. Each year, the Bank hires period, concurrently with completing their university degree studies. several employees with disabilities in various positions, and adds Those graduates who successfully complete this course receive special positions for new employees with disabilities. offers to join the Technology Division’s permanent staff. In 2018, In order to ensure inclusion of employees with disabilities, the Bank’s the second class of this program started. work environment is accessible, and is further adapted when additional needs arise. 112 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Equal Opportunity Employment Equal Employment And Prevention Of Discrimination The Group strictly complies with statutory requirements regarding equal and fair employment. As part of promoting equality at the Bank, the Bank adheres Equality in employee benefits – The Group ensures equality in to a policy for avoidance of discrimination. This applies to employee benefits as well. Part-time and full-time employees are discrimination against both employees and customers. eligible for the same benefits, and their employment scope does Avoidance of discrimination against Bank employees is not affect standard benefits, including vacation reimbursement, holiday gifts, employee gifts etc. Other than standard benefits, some reflected in processes for equal hiring, employment and specific benefits are based on scope of employment, with differences promotion while avoiding any kind of discrimination. The between full-time and part-time employees, such as: vacation pay, Bank also operates an anonymous hot line and fax for clothing allowance, paid leave and sick leave. employee inquiries as needed. In 2018, one complaint of discrimination were received from employees or from job applicants. In this complaint, an applicant complained about not being hired by the Bank, alleging that they were rejected Equal Hiring due to their advanced age. A review by the Bank revealed that this The Group implements a hiring process which ensures equal applicant was not hired due to professional considerations based opportunity to candidates of both genders and various ethnic on relevant criteria only. The Bank replied in this manner to the backgrounds in Israeli society. Candidates are hired based on their applicant’s complaint. skills and on Group needs and the Group does not discriminate against any employee by national, religious, cultural or ethnic affiliation, by race, gender, sexual orientation, disability nor any other attribute. If necessary, adjustments are made to the recruitment and screening processes, in order to ensure equal opportunity for all candidates. Such relief is typically in the form of additional time or the option to take the test in your native tongue (such as Arabic). 113 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Promoting Gender Equality Women In Management And At The Group The Bank attaches great importance to promoting gender A 2% increase in the number of women employed by the Group – As of the end of 2018, 4,093 women were employed, or 63.5% of equality in the work place. The Bank has an equal opportunity the Group headcount, compared with 4,014 women at the end of employment policy, with employees hired and promoted 2017, or 63.2% of Group headcount at that time. based solely on their skills and on needs of the Bank. Each A 4% increase in the number of women managers at the Group – employee’s pay, in all ranks and positions at the Bank, is As of the end of 2018, the number of women managers at the Group determined regardless of the employee’s gender – but was 614, or 50% of all managers, compared with 590 women at the rather based on their skills, professional experience and their end of 2017, or 49% of all managers at that time. designated position. Therefore, there are no pay differences Percentage Of Women By Rank1 between men and women at the Bank. In all areas of 2016 2017 2018 operation, the Bank adheres to equal pay to employees in Executive management of Bank Mizrahi-Tefahot 42% 42% 42% conformity with statutory provisions, and consequently also only (VP and above) complies with the binding minimum pay, as well as equality Division / Sector / Region Manager 25% 27% 29% in terms of benefits given to employees. Branch, Department and Business Center Manager 37% 38% 38% Equal Pay For Male And Female Employees Unit / Team Manager 56% 58% 59% Each employee’s pay, in all ranks and positions at the Group, is Female employees in non-managerial position 66% 67% 67% determined regardless of the employee’s gender – but rather based Percentage of female managers at the Group on their skills, professional experience and their designated position. (out of all Group managers) 47% 49% 50% A recent review conducted by the Bank to compare pay for men and women in similar positions (disregarding employee-specific Total women employed by the Group 63% 63% 64% attributes, such as years of service and individual allowances, such as housing, mileage etc.) showed that on average, there were no 1. The data is for Bank Mizrahi-Tefahot and Bank Yahav (excluding overseas affiliates) significant pay differences between men and women. 114 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Percentage of women by rank including anonymous ones. Every complaint is reviewed in conformity with procedures and the circumstances of each case, and a decision 100 is made on how to act and what steps to take. 80 In 2018, we delivered 639 hours of training on prevention of sexual 60 58% 59% 66% 67% 67% 63% 63% 64% harassment and workplace abuse, to employees and managers. 56% 49% 50% 42% 42% 42% 47% 37% 38% 38% 40 29% 27% 25% 20 Executive Division Branch, Unit / Female Percentage Total management / Sector Department Team employees of female women of Bank / Region and Business Manager in nonmanagers at employed MizrahiManager Center managerial the Group (out by the Tefahot only Manager position of all Group Group (VP and managers) above) 2016 2017 2018 Equality In Pay Promotion Group employees receive pay promotions based on equal criteria and on their skills, taking into account only relevant considerations. Preventing Sexual Harassment As part of the measures designed to ensure a safe and pleasant work environment for employees of all genders, the Bank is committed to preventing sexual harassment. The Supervisor for Prevention of Sexual Harassment is the address for any inquiries on this subject, 115 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Staff The Bank attaches great importance to professional and personal growth of its employees. Bank management regards the development Training And of its staff and constant improvement of the professional and personal skills of Bank employees and managers, as a critical Development component of implementing the Bank’s business strategy. Training and personal development processes are applied throughout the employee’s employment by the Bank: From mentoring and certification training when starting on the job, through various training programs throughout the career, preparing for the next position through professional or management cadres and through preparation for retirement. The Bank offers a program of courses, seminars and workshops which support the professional, behavioral and management skills required for the position at the highest standards. Courses are delivered in various fields of operations. In addition, the Bank encourages achievement and expansion of academic education of its employees, as well as extra-curricular external workshops. The Bank maintains a dialogue with employees about their performance and targets, through evaluation and feedback processes; encourages excellence and remunerates employees through bonuses, promotion, individual awards to outstanding employees and recognition of outstanding employees. 116 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Training And Mentoring Of inter alia, a conference on deployment of compliance culture Employees And Managers for branch managers and compliance trustees, a conference on compliance for economists etc. The Group’s training program includes a variety of courses, training Personal mentoring program – The Bank emphasizes and general interest lectures for employees and managers, both on professional and managerial mentoring. Every employee starting professional topics (whether or not regulatory mandated), as well as in a new position is mentored by a colleague and by the unit on general topics for expanding their knowledge and for acquiring manager, using a structured, customized mentoring program. various personal skills. Each employee is assigned a customized Employees attending managerial courses are mentored by training curriculum, consisting of courses appropriate for their role. other managers at various levels. The training center is a strategic partner for cross-bank processes Learning organization – The Training Center develops diverse with regard to change management, deployment and training. projects, designed to deploy a “learning bank” culture where managers and employees regard learning as a continuous activity, which also takes place at their work station. Material Training, seminars and workshops – The Bank offers seminars is made available to managers and employees on the Bank’s and workshops which support the professional, behavioral and learning portal, mentoring is provided as part of starting in a management skills required for the position at the highest new position, computer-based kits for individual learning are standards. The courses delivered cover the various banking provided etc. topics: loans, investments, service and selling, management, work process deployment, IT deployment etc. Bank employees Learning system – In 2018, we extensively used the new also take part in external professional conferences, such as: learning system, deployed the previous year, which provides Annual CPA / attorney conferences, capital market conferences employees with transparency with regard to their planned and so forth. personal training program and allows managers to constantly monitor the employee’s professional development. Basic During training delivered to employees, special emphasis is E-learning kits (mandatory for all new hires) and mentoring placed on regulatory training – a deployment method for each tracks have been uploaded into the system. Furthermore, regulation, adapted for its complexity and for its relevant target dissemination of training deliverables is automated by the audience. Training also refers to deployment of new content system, with each recipient getting their own individual email among employees and managers, as well as to maintaining message. Examples of regulatory E-learning kits disseminated and refreshing skills over time. In the past year we conducted, in the BINA system: Bribery and corruption, fairness, red flags 117 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance in real estate. This system also provides additional material Average training hours were as follows: to managers and employees, consisting of E-learning kits for individual self learning and so forth. 2017 2018 Average Average Extra-curricular classes – The Bank offers its employees Female Male Female Male – overall – overall various extra-curricular courses for enjoyment and for development of skills – even beyond what is needed for their Managers 52.2 47.1 49.5 57.9 61 *59.5 position, such as language courses. This year, too, the Bank continued the Tree of Knowledge project, with presentations Employees 40.2 42.1 40.9 42.5 41.2 41.6 given by senior lecturers from business and academia. In 2018, Headquarters 22.3 20.6 21.5 23.7 24.6 24.2 we delivered 6 presentations. Each session was attended by 100 managers and headquarters employees. Branches 51.8 62.3 55.2 66.9 54 58.1 Academic education – The Bank encourages employees to Average hours – complete and expand their academic education, and contributes overall 42 43.4 42.5 46.6 44.1 45 towards tuition costs for select eligible employees. Bank Yahav creates an annual training plan for all employees, based * Increase in number of training hours for managers is due to a two-day managers on the Bank’s work plan and needs, which is then disseminated to conference attended by all managers. all employees. In 2018 we delivered 286,590 training hours in total, compared Average training hours were as follows: 50 to 270,146 hours in 2017. 45 44.6 45.1 42.5 45 40 35 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 118 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance performance, deployment and application of knowledge during day-to-day work. The feedback serves to review the lecturer quality, any aids in use and relevance of the content for the employee’s job. Feedback ratings and comments are monitored and analyzed, with reference to standard deviation for each item, resulting in the required modifications being made to future training sessions, with monitoring of their implementation. The weighting of feedback and ratings for all training and courses delivered in 2018 showed a high level of effectiveness and satisfaction by the training participants. Review and revision of study material – Once every other month the relevant staff convenes at the training center in order to review feedback received and to decide on any changes required in order to improve training. Changes are also made as a result of response choice analysis of the composition of responses to course questions and testing of assimilation of the material learned. For each course, we review which topics Review Of Training Program Effectiveness were clearly delivered and well understood by participants, In order to review, to improve professional skills and to streamline and which require further highlighting. learning processes, a structured process is in place for testing Effectiveness testing after course completion – For courses the effectiveness of new learning content as well as of existing that concern compliance content at the Bank, course participants learning content. To this end, the Training Center applies the following are required to undergo another test six months after they measures: completed the course, to test the implementation of the course Feedback forms – Participants complete feedback forms at the material and to review the effectiveness of content and course end of the training, designed to review their satisfaction with the delivery. training; employees and managers also provide feedback over time, in order to review the contribution of training to improved 119 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Career Development Tracks based on a screening process, which may be undertaken by any employee with the appropriate seniority and experience. Promoting employees to management positions – the Group encourages promotion of its employees to management positions and provides them with tools for this purpose. In 2018, 95% of management appointments Training Employees On Human were promotions of Bank employees. New managers and their families are invited, on several occasions throughout the year, to an event held Rights Topics in the office of the Bank President & CEO and in his presence, as well The Bank attaches great importance to having all Bank as the presence of Bank managers, to recognize and highlight their employees be capable of handling issues related to promotion to Bank management. human rights, in all aspects of their work. This is a major The Bank offers multiple career development tracks for both employees cornerstone of Bank life and one of its key values. and managers: Preserving human rights in Bank operations – As part Manager development program – This program is intended for of the Bank’s commitment to preserve human rights, the branch, department and team managers. The program consists of multiple courses, individual advice and seminars on management Bank preserves human rights in all areas and avoids any skills. action or business initiative which may impact human Training program for management cadre – The Bank has rights. To this end, the Bank delivers training on topics developed programs to train suitable employees for future positions, including the following: Preventing sexual harassment, in both their professional and managerial capacity. Employees and customized training for security staff on limitations on the managers found suitable for promotion undergo diverse training as part of this program, such as: management cadre, MATARA program use of force etc. The issues of preventing discrimination for training managers for senior positions and employee training and respecting human rights are handled at the Bank by program for future professional positions (business management the Human Resources and Administration Division with cadre). regard to employee hiring and employment, by the Retail Managertrainingat BankYahav–Bank Yahav offers amanagement Division, Business Banking Division and Financial Division cadre training course, intended for training of incumbent and potential managers on different levels. These employees are selected with regard to avoidance of discrimination in customer recruitment and in provision of service to customers. 120 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance The Bank attaches great importance to having all Bank employees Maintaining A Dialogue With Employees be capable of handling issues related to human rights, in all aspects of their work. This is a major cornerstone of Bank life and one of its And Expanding Intra-Organizational key values. To this end, the Bank delivers training on human rights Communication from the customer aspect and from aspects of all stakeholders at In order to foster an organizational culture of open discourse, the the Bank. Ethics-related training is also delivered for deployment of Group acts as follows: the Code of Ethics, preventing sexual harassment, equal opportunity at work, accessible service and public inquiries. Accessibility to employees – Maintaining constant contact with all employees, through HR staff frequently present at all units and In 2018, Mizrahi-Tefahot Group delivered 9,500 hours of training the HR Desk available to answer questions from employees. on policies and procedures with regard to human rights aspects relevant to Bank operations. Direct meetings – The members of the management and senior management of the Group conduct tours of all units and branches, and regularly and directly meet with employees throughout the country. Running forums – The Bank operates several forums, whose members include employees and managers from different levels and departments. Such a meeting between representatives of different levels and departments enhances communication between Group departments and improves their mutual work Dialogue With Employees interfaces. The forums managed by the Bank include an Internal Communication Forum, consisting of representatives of all units The Bank attaches great importance to maintaining a constant and branches, which convenes periodically to discuss ways to dialogue with Bank employees and managers, as part of the Bank’s improve internal communication. responsible employment policy. In order to expand the discourse with the employees, the Group operates in two complementary channels: Meetings of senior executives and employees – During banking courses, executives deliver presentations to employees and 1. Maintaining an on-going dialogue with employees and present the division they head. expanding intra-organizational communication. 2. Providing regular feedback annually to employees 121 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance project resulted in three meetings attended by 144 employees. ‫״‬Path of Enrichment‫ ״‬conferences This activity is another step in promoting intra-organizational communications at the Bank, based on the wish to conduct a In 2018, the Bank developed “Path of Enrichment – for dialogue and raise ideas regarding the Bank’s key activities employees who would like to know more”. This training is and processes. designed to reinforce intra-organizational communication and “Good to Know” – At Bank Mizrahi-Tefahot presentations improve employee knowledge of Bank operations, its business are delivered to employees by managers and professional environment, culture and attributes. In 2018, we held 3 sessions employees of the Bank, designed to increase awareness of of this conference, with participants receiving content with the roles and extensive activity throughout the Bank and to regard to the real estate and mortgage market, trading in the reinforce the connection between divisions and employees’ sense of belonging. In 2018, presentations were delivered on a range of topics, such as: Paperless branch, capital adequacy, Information bulletin “Among Us Online” – an employee growth engines for customer recruitment, cyber and information newsletter published on the internal website for Bank employees. security, international operations and private banking. These Each newsletter contains articles on diverse subjects within presentations were delivered once every two months and each the organization, such as: personal advancement, employee presentation was attended by about 85 employees. volunteer activity, special systems put into work at the Bank Providing Feedback To Employees and so forth. Monthly information bulletin “Among Us Online” – In 2018, the Bank issued 5 issues of “Among Us Online” for The Group ensures that employees receive regular feedback about a total of 44 issues to date, with an average of 600 employees their performance. In 2018, 100% of Mizrahi-Tefahot employees who read the various articles. received feedback in a personal discussion or meeting. “Among us, this is serious” – The “Among us, this is serious” Feedback is provided in a personal talk. Soon prior to the evaluation website lists aspects and milestones for professional and date, workshops are provided on this topic and an explanation of personal assistance to employees. the evaluation process is disseminated. Workshops on employee evaluation are provided as part of the management training process “Round Tables” – In 2018, the “Round tables” project invited all as well. Bank employees to open discussions, led by a senior manager or executive, on issues that are on the Bank’s agenda. The The feedback is mutual feedback and allows employees to provide feedback on what is going on at the bank. 122 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Looking Forward Achievement Of 2018 Goals Goals For 2019 Further expand the use and transparency of Goal Status information using the BINA system of the Training ‫איכותי‬ ‫חינוך איכותי‬ ‫חינוך‬ Center. Recognition for retirees – Assistance and recognition for Increase the number of participants in conferences of Bank employees upon reaching retirement age, through Done Path of Enrichment to improve intra-organizational a retirement workshop communication. Continue activity to recruit and hire employees with Deployment and training for managers on appropriate Done disabilities work environment, preventing sexual harassment, Expand recruitment of employees from diverse preventing abuse and gender equality. demographics, according to the geographical distribution Done ‫הוגנות תעסוקתית‬ ‫וצמיחה כלכלית‬ Continue activity to recruit and hire employees with of Bank branches disabilities and assistance for managers of those Expanding extra-curricular activities for employees in the employees. Done fields of health and well-being. Expand recruitment of employees from diverse Reinforce intra-organizational communication through demographics, according to the geographical Done distribution of Bank branches. organization-wide conferences and general interest days Expand and intensify transparency and information accessible to employees in training areas, through the Done new Learning Management System (LMS) Improve training effectiveness by using the new learning Done system 123 Investing In The Environment 124 10.8% Investing In The Environment Recycled paper consumption at decrease in power consumption compared to the previous year Overview 7.9% Of total paper consumption across the Group (in 2017: 7.4%) 12 tons Recycled Reduced paper consumption Compared to last year 13,320 bottles and cans Deposit fee for these was donated Decrease of to the community 3.2% in fuel Decrease of consumption 8.3% carbon footprint in intensity per employee, compared to the previous year 125 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Group The Group recognizes the impact of its operations on the environment and on the Earth’s climate, primarily due to Responsibility For resource consumption and incorporating environmental considerations in decision making when extending loans. The Environment Therefore, the Bank Group strives to minimize the negative environmental impact of its operations by reducing material consumption, improving energy efficiency and managing environmental risk. These matters are managed at the Bank by the Business Banking Division with regard to environmental credit risk management and by the Logistics Department of the Human Resources and Administration Division with regard to consumption and improved energy efficiency. Bank operations are primarily office work; key environmental impact due to our operations is from power consumption for operation of properties, use of fuel for transportation, paper consumption for office use, and office waste generated by current operations. Along with this direct impact, the Group indirectly impacts climate change by direct and indirect emissions of greenhouse gas, due to fuel and power consumption. 126 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Reduce paper consumption at the Bank – As Reducing Paper Consumption part of the Bank’s commitment to reduce paper The Group uses paper mainly for forms, letters to customers, report consumption, the Bank strives for more intelligent printing etc. Note that a considerable percentage of the paper is use of paper on these levels: First, reduce the need produced according to Bank of Israel directives for clients, and is hand-delivered to them. for printing (at branches, in printing centers and for client mailings); second, by using recycled paper 2015 2016 2017 2018 and by transitioning clients to electronic mailing (as Total paper permitted by the Bank of Israel). As a result of all the consumption (tons) 823 784 744 732 activities in this field, we see a steady decline in the Recycled paper used volume of paper consumed, and an increase in the as percentage of total paper consumption 6.3% 6.9% 7.4% 7.9% rate of recycled paper usage out of total consumption. Waste recycling and processing – The Bank sees Paper consumption by the Group (2015-2018) the importance of reducing its negative environmental 80% 700 impact due to waste generated in the course of 70% 600 611 579 68% business and therefore, the Bank operates multiple 60% 59% 541 58% 519 501 500 waste recycling initiatives. Waste recycling is focused 50% 52% 428 465 432 in four key areas: paper, bottles & cans, printer ink 40% 400 & toner cartridges and surplus electronic products. 300 30% Compliance with environmental regulation – The 200 20% Bank complies with all applicable laws, including 97 100 93 100 10% 100 environmental legislation. 63 52 51 54 55 55 57 58 0% 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 A4 paper (tons) Paper waste for recycling Paper for internal use (tons) Paper for mailing (tons) Recycled paper (tons) Percentage of paper sent for recycling 127 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Io 2018, t0e Gr8up re3u1e3 t0e p per use3 b 12 t8os, 1.6% lower than in 2017. This was despite the increase in the number of In recent years, the Bank has started employees and branches in 2018. One of the factors in this reduction a key project to significantly reduce is the Paperless Branch project – in 2018, the Bank completed the conversion of customer service at its branches to the use of printing of control reports at its various tablets by employees for digital capture of signatures. This allows units. As part of this project, the Bank mapped reports of branches for improved efficiency and reduced paper consumption, as well as and headquarters units, and reviewed the significance and importance shorter service times and added value for all Bank customers, from of each report, as well as its frequency. Concurrently with this report the private sector as well as from the business sector. Other reasons mapping, a support system was put in place to control data presented for reduced paper consumption include: Providing an option to capture in the reports, and a transition took place from printouts to a computer printouts to a digital file and sending a copy of the transaction to the system. In 2006, monthly printing reached 6.36 million pages; by customer in digital format only, replacement of all printers at Mizrahi2018, the number of pages printed each month was down to only Tefahot Group with two-sided printers and increased use of daily 216 thousand. This project is on-going and efforts to further reduct control reports, through computer systems that replace the paper the number of pages being printed continue. reports that used to be printed daily at branches and headquarters. Along with efforts to reduce consumption, the Group acts to include Printed pages (millions) purchasing of recycled paper. In 2018, this purchasing constituted 7 6.36 7.9% of total paper consumption by the Group, 7% increase in 6 consumption of recycled paper). All recycled paper used by the 5 Bank is made of 100% recycled fibers, and the Bank ensures that 4 raw materials used by the supplier are from an approved source and compliant with international standards. 3 2.43 2 1.04 1 0.70 0.216 0 2006 2015 2009 2016 2012 2015 2017 2018 128 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Waste Recycling And Processing Along with the decrease in absolute paper consumption and the increase in use of recycled paper, in the past three years there was Wast treatment at the Bank focuses on separating waste into 3 also an increase in the percentage of paper sent to be recycled types: Paper, electronic and ink jet cartridges. as percentage of total paper purchased. In 2018, the Group sent for recycling 68% of the total paper purchased by the Group, Destination Volume Volume Volume Volume compared to 58% of total paper purchased in 2017, a 10% increase Waste type Handling in 2015 in 2016 in 2017 in 2018 over the past year. for removal (in tons) (in tons) (in tons) (in tons) In 2018, the number of there was also a decrease in the number of Sent for Paper waste recycling KMM 428 465 432 501 ink jet and toner cartridges sent to be scrapped, compared to previous (tons) years – a decrease by 16% compared to 2017, by 31% compared Percentage of to 2016 and a decrease by 23% compared to 2015. This is due to paper waste sent the reduction in paper consumption and to massive replacement to be recycled of older printers by newer, more economical ones, both in terms as percentage 52% 59.3% 58.1% 68.4% of total paper of toner consumed and power used. The printer replacement also purchased resulted in increase in electronic waste sent to be scrapped in 2018, as well as to reduced use of plastics. Handling of Scrap Ecommunity 14 22 35 66 Campaigns To Promote Recycling By electronic waste (tons) Employees Processing of Scrap KMM and As part of diverse actions taken by the Bank to deploy the values of ink jet and toner (units) Cahila 16,271 18,065 14,851 12,472 sustainability, the Bank promotes campaigns designed to promote cartridges recycling by employees. These campaigns focused in particular on recycling of bottles, batteries and electronic waste In order to increase employee awareness of this matter, the Bank placed special signage to promote recycling. In each of the designated areas, these campaigns were successful and achieved great cooperation and satisfaction among employees. 129 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Recycling bottles – The Bank has placed containers for Group manages and measures this and takes steps to improve collecting cans and bottles. In 2018, 13,320 bottles were energy efficiency. This issue is managed by an Energy Efficiency collected, and the deposit money for the bottles was donated Committee, consisting of professionals from the Logistics Division to families in need. and permanent professional consultants. The role of the Committee is to consider any idea and suggestion for improved efficiency – Recycling of batteries and electronic waste – The Bank from buying advanced systems with the capacity for analysis and is part of Ecommunity, a social corporation for recycling of control, to help reduce energy consumption, through adjustment electronic waste which employs employees with disabilities. of the temperature of cold water in cooling units according to the Bank employees are reminded to bring used batteries and temperature outside, business hours, turning off lights or turning off electronic waste, which is collected in containers placed around air conditioners in bulk after business hours etc. the Bank. Collecting clothes for donation and recycling – In the Bank’s Energy Consumption At Mizrahi-Tefahot Group office building in Lod, we placed a container for collection of (Excluding Overseas Affiliates) clothes from employees and their families. The collection is 2015 2016 2017 2018 conducted in cooperation with the “Pitchon Lev” NGO. Total power consumption (KWh*) 5,923 5,727 5,658 5,116 Re-use of furniture – When a property is sold / returned, the Bank reviews if the furniture can be used elsewhere at Consumption per employee (KWh*) 291 280 286 229 the Bank – and if so, the furniture is relocated. If this is not Power consumption per m2 35,912,433 35,420,720 35,490,911 32,535,599 possible – the furniture is donated to the community. Total fuel consumption (liters) 729,016 731,837 690,497 675,060 Reusable cups – In 2018, the Bank purchased for all employees Total fuel consumption (liters) 95,202 101,366 110,344 99,631 reusable cups made from recycled bamboo, to encourage Total diesel consumption (liters) 824,218 833,203 800,841 794,691 them to reduce the use of disposable cups. Total power (GJ**) 129,285 127,515 127,767 117,128 Improved Energy Efficiency Total fuel (GJ) 24,492 24,576 23,194 23,031 Total diesel (GJ) 3,516 3,726 4,061 4,615 Due to activities in office buildings, energy consumption is one of Total energy (GJ) 157,293 155,817 155,022 144,775 the Group’s most significant environmental impacts. Therefore, the 1. KWh – kilowatt-hour 2.GJ – Giga Joule – unit for measuring energy 130 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance The data above shows a 9.5% decrease in power consumption Energy intensity (total KWh per m2) per employee, as well as decrease in total power consumption 300 by the Group. In summary, in 2018 the trend of increased energy 250 291 286 280 consumption efficiency at the Group (power and fuel) continued, 200 228.8 with total energy consumption down by 6.6%. 150 100 The increase in diesel consumption is due to expansion of cash 50 transportation services provided to external parties through courier 0 vans operated by Mizrahi Security Services. In 2018, the Bank 2015 2016 2017 2018 purchased additional courier vans due to the increase in such activity. Total energy consumption (GJ) Improved Energy Efficiency Measures For 160,000 157,293 155,817 155,022 Power Consumption 144,775 140,000 24,492 24,576 23,194 Use of LED lighting – Gradual replacement of lighting fixtures 23,031 120,000 3,516 3,726 4,061 4,615 at Bank premises to use low-cost lighting. It is Bank policy to install low-cost lighting in any branch or facility newly constructed 100,000 or refurbished. Moreover, in 2018 a wide-range tender took 80,000 place for purchasing led lighting elements, gradually across all 60,000 129,285 127,515 127,767 117,128 Bank facilities where such lighting is not in place – at branches 40,000 and headquarters. In 2019, the tender will be awarded, and the lighting elements would start to be replaced. 20,000 0 Operation of control systems at headquarters buildings – 2015 2016 2017 2018 The system controls turning off of lights outside of business hours Power Diesel Fuel Total and can automatically turn off lights after business hours and reduce lighting in parking garages. The system automatically turns off the lights in each Bank headquarters building according to a pre-defined schedule. The Bank also installed a lighting control system which automatically turns off the lights in empty rooms and turns it back on when someone enters the room. 131 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Power savings at Bank headquarters in Lod – This was Efficient space utilization – The Bank regularly reviews the achieved by adjusting the temperature provided by the efficient utilization of all its assets. In case of need for additional AC system to the desired air temperature – increasing the work stations, the first planning option considered is how to temperature of cold water flowing in the AC pipe system in the do so without any additional space, by re-organization of the headquarters building in Lod. The adjustment is made based on work areas. The Bank also regularly reviews and carries out specific requirements for each area. In addition, the operating sale / return of surplus space. More efficient use of space schedule of the AC system was aligned with business hours in indirectly results in savings in power consumption as well. the building; sometimes, a decision was made together with the In 2018, space reduction was approved at 3 branches. Despite business units to concentrate activity in certain areas in order the increase in headcount and continued opening of new to allow the system to be disconnected in the evening hours. branches in 2018, the Bank’s total space was reduced compared This matter is under review and adjustments are regularly to 2017. This is further evidence of the bank’s successful use made. space. Use of emergency generators during regular peak hours – Installation of Optinergy system at the Technology-Logistics According to an agreement signed in 2014 with IEC, the Bank Center – In 2018, the Bank approved installation of software sells electricity to IEC during peak hours, on demand, by for monitoring and control of power consumption, to assist operating its emergency generators. This was in order to help in improving energy efficiency. This system also allows for reduce peal consumption at the national level and to make use malfunction forecasting and preventive maintenance of AC of diesel in generators at the Technology and Logistics Center. and refrigeration systems and so forth. The system should Installation of diesel circulation system in generators – in be in use sometime in 2019. order to avoid soil pollution by unusable diesel and to extend Review of alternative energy at the Technology-Logistics the useful life of diesel. In addition, diesel containers are tested Center – In 2018, we reviewed the option of setting up a power to ensure impermeability to prevent any leaks. plant at the Technology-Logistics Center, operated by natural AC system installation – In 2018, AC units in computer rooms gas, to generate electricity to be used by this facility, as well as were networked for optimized operation of the AC systems. “co-generation”, or use of excess heat emitted by the system Replacement of older, inefficient AC systems at branches – for cooling the facility. This is currently being reviewed as part In 2018, systems were replaced at 5 more branches. of the overall design of the campus to be constructed in the coming years (Technology-Logistics Center 5). 132 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Improved Energy Efficiency Measures For Shuttle service – The Technology-Logistics Center operates Fuel Consumption a shuttle service for employees arriving from different locations around Israel. The shuttle size matches the actual number of Several complementary measures were taken in order to reduce passengers. A shuttle service also operates between Bank fuel consumption in the organizational vehicle fleet. In addition to headquarter buildings in Ramat Gan and in Lod for employees reduced fuel consumption, these measures streamline the use of who need to attend meetings, so as to reduce the use of their time and save costs: own vehicles or taxis. In 2018, similar to 2016-2017, 350 Transition from in-person meetings to video conferences – employees made daily use of organized transportation (in Since 2012, the Bank started installation of video conference each year). systems at headquarters and regional buildings. In 2014, a Carpooling – The Bank encourages employees to carpool, system was launched to measure the number of such meetings, by rewarding employees who gave rides to other employees to allow the Bank to better estimate the savings due to this and who have accumulated a specified number of signatures initiative. These calls result in fewer employees traveling on a specially designed card and through cooperation with between Bank sites. In 2018, call volume was 36,000 minutes MOOVIT. In 2018, some 30 Bank employees received an (or 1,261 calls). Recently, a decision was made to simplify the award for taking part in carpooling. use of this system, in order to increase its use. In 2018 36,000 minutes call meetings to video conferences 133 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Carbon Footprint Mizrahi-Tefahot Group’s Carbon Footprint (CO2eq) Change As part of the desire to reduce climate change, the Group carefully in % 2015 2016 2017 2018 measures greenhouse gas emissions caused by direct consumption compared of fuel and diesel (component 1), indirect emissions as a result of to 2017 Component 1 – direct power consumption at the Bank (component 2) and other indirect emissions due to fuel 1,965 1,989 1,917 1,913 -0.2% emissions along the supply chain. In 2017, the Group calculated for consumption the first time emissions due to business flights, paper consumption, Component 2 – indirect paper waste being recycled, and electronic waste being scrapped emissions due to power 24,988 21,347 20,185 18,504 -8.3% consumption (component 3). Total carbon footprint Measurement of greenhouse gas emissions is carried out in accordance (CO2e) – components 1 and 26,953 23,336 22,102 20,417 -7.6% 2 only with the Green House Gas Methodology (GHG) methodology1, using Carbon footprint intensity calculation adjustments specified by the Ministry of Environmental (CO2e tons per employee) – 4.5 3.8 3.5 3.2 -8.5% Protection. components 1 and 2 only Component 3 – Other The calculation excludes Group operations overseas. indirect emissions in the supply chain as due to Not Not business flights, paper 661 720 8.9% measured measured consumption and waste (electronic and recycled paper)* Total carbon footprint (CO2e) – components 1, 2 22,763 21,137 -7.1% and 3 Carbon footprint intensity (CO2e tons per employee) – 3.6 3.3 -8.3% components 1, 2 and 3 1. Emissions in component 3 exclude emissions involved in paper transportation and 1. http://www.ghgprotocol.org/ waste transportation to waste treatment facilities. 134 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Greenhouse gas emissions for the Group decreased in 2018, Dialogue On Environmental Issues compared with 2017, in absolute terms – a 7.1% decrease – and per employee with reference to carbon footprint – a decrease by 8.3%. Group carbon footprint1 (CO2e tons) Mizrahi-Tefahot Group maintains a dialogue on environmental issues, focused on discourse with relevant clients and suppliers 30,000 26,953 about the environmental impact resulting from their operations. 25,000 23,336 22,763 661 21,137 Suppliers – During visits by the Logistics Division to strategical 20,000 720 suppliers, they administer a specific questionnaire on 15,000 environmental issues. This questionnaire tests the extent to 10,000 24,988 21,347 20,185 18,504 which suppliers act in conformity with social responsibility, 5,000 including environmental aspects thereof. This questionnaire 1,965 1,989 1,917 1,913 poses the following questions to suppliers: Where is waste 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 disposed? How is waste processed? Are the company premises Component 1 Component 2 Component 3 Total in a Green building? How does the company relate to Green standards? etc. Carbon footprint intensity2 (tons CO2eq per m2) Environmental organizations – The Bank maintains a dialogue 0.25 0.22 with organizations and NGOs on environmental issues, where 0.20 0.18 0.18 ideas are raised for activities in which the Bank could contribute 0.15 0.15 to environmental protection. Several projects resulted from this dialogue: recycling drink cans and bottles, recycling medications, 0.10 recycling batteries, recycling electronic waste, carpooling, 0.05 environmental initiatives as part of the ZAZIM project etc. The 0.00 Bank includes its employees and customers in these activities. 2015 2016 2017 2018 Carbon footprint intensity (tons CO2eq per m2) Liner (Carbon footprint intensity (tons CO2eq per m2)) 1. In 2015 and 2016, component 3 was not measured, hence the chart includes no data on GHG emissions in component 3 for these years. Note that this does not imply that there were no emissions for component 3 in these years. 135 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Regulatory Compliance And Control In the reported year, no penalties or sanctions were imposed on the Group for regulatory violations of environmental issues. The Bank maintains and applies internal and external control to all aspects of environmental management: Paper consumption and shredding are controlled by computerbased systems and by different suppliers. Fuel consumption data for the Group are provided by PAZOMAT. The Group’s power consumption data is provided by Israel Electric Company. Data on electronic waste recycling is provided by supplier reports. All employees who use a company car from the Bank receive regular reports, which reflects the fuel consumption data of their vehicle. This increases their awareness of the need to reduce consumption by efficient, proper use of their vehicle. All these are constantly monitored by relevant employees and managers of the Logistics Division. 136 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Looking Forward Achievement Of 2018 Goals Goals For 2019 ‫הוגנות תעסוקתית‬ ‫וצמיחה כלכלית‬ G8 l St tus Sample visits to major suppliers. ‫ חדשנות‬,‫תעשייה‬ Further review of efficient utilization of existing space, ‫ותשתיות‬ Continue review for efficient utilization of space. addition of required work stations with no increase in space Done if possible and sale / return of surplus space which the Bank no longer needs. Continue reducing paper consumption. Continue to reduce paper consumption due to Done Install Optinergy system to monitor and control power continuation of the “Paperless Branch” project. used at the Technology-Logistics Center and start Underway, a obtaining results and conclusions on this issue. Review and formulate a multi-year work plan to replace wide-range lighting at branches with LED lighting tender took ‫שינוי אקלים‬ Continue review of the option of setting up a power plant place in 2018 at the Technology-Logistics Center, operated by natural Map and locate all air conditioners over 10 years old and gas, to generate electricity to be used by this facility. formulate a multi-year work plan to replace air conditioners Done Start replacement with LED lighting at branches, by found to be inefficient in terms of energy consumption. the winner of a tender to be conducted in 2019. Thermal insulation of windows as part of renovation of Replacement of old chillers, with low energy new branches, and formulate a multi-year work plan for Done efficiency, at 3 more branches. other branches. Replace old chillers in 3 more branches in 2018. Done Install meters for water installations at headquarters Not buildings, in order to save power at night and on weekends. implemented Review the possibility of installing voltage reduction Under review controllers at headquarters and branch buildings 137 Commitment To Accountable Conduct 138 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Group Being a leading financial institution in Israel, the Bank adheres to accountable conduct throughout the Bank Group. This commitment Commitment is reflected by respecting the law and applying corporate governance rules and regulations applicable to the Bank. The Bank adheres To Accountable to ethical conduct and acts to prevent corruption. The Bank is also committed to a risk management culture which supports achievement Conduct of its targets and implementation of its business strategy while maintaining commitment to its customers. These matters are managed by multiple divisions, including the Risk Control Division, the Technology Division, the Human Resources andAdministration Division and by the Bank Secretary. Board of Directors Operation of the Board of Directors – As part of Proper Conduct of Banking Business Directives, including managing corporate governance at the Bank, the Board Directive 301, as well as with procedures specified by of Directors is responsible for Bank business and its the Board of Directors. As part of approval of the Bank’s financial robustness, and takes the utmost steps in order annual work plans, the Board of Directors would be asked to discharge its duties, in conformity with the law, with to approve the work plan with regard to social responsibility. Proper Conduct of Banking Business Directives, including 139 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Board Members The following is a list of members of the Bank Board of Directors as of December 31, 2018: As of December 31, 2018, the Group Board of Directors consisted of 12 Board members – 9 male and 3 female. The Board of 25, 2019) Moshe Vidman, Chairman Directors includes 9 Board members with accounting and financial skills (at the Audit Committee – 6 Board members with such skills) Zvi Ephrat Hannah Fayer and 4 external Board members, pursuant to Proper Conduct of Gilad Rabinowitz (started Sabina Biran Banking Business Directives, of whom 2 are external Board members their term in office on appointed pursuant to the Corporate Act. All external Board members Ron Gazit March 12, 2019) are also independent Board members. Avraham Zeldman Among the Board members are also Board members with experience Ilan Kremer (started their and knowledge of risk management and credit risk. The Risk Nachshon Yoav-Asher term in office on March 28, Management Committee of the Board of Directors consists of seven Mordechai Meir (concluded 2019) members with significant experience with Committee membership. their term in office on All Bank Board members have professional qualifications, in conformity March 28, 2019) with provisions of the Corporate Regulations, and are classified as “expert Board members” for the purpose of Corporate Regulations. Jacob Abraham Neyman All Board members do not report to the CEO, directly nor indirectly. external Board member (pursuant to the Corporate Act) Liora Ofer (concluded their term in office on February 7, 2019) Jonathan Kaplan Joseph Shachak (concluded their term in office on April 140 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance All Board members are aged 51 or higher. Improvement Of Board Operations More information about Board members is provided on pp. 265Effectiveness 266 of the Bank’s 2018 annual report. In addition, the report issued On July 5, 2017, the Bank of Israel issued an update to Proper together with the financial statements (on the Stock Exchange’s Conduct of Banking Business Directive 301 concerning “Board of MAYA website) lists issues related to corporate governance, audit Directors”. These updates to the directive are designed to improve and other information about the Bank and management thereof, the effectiveness of Board work and to enhance the professional on pages 372-390. qualifications of the Board of Directors. The revised directive stipulates, Board members are appointed by the General Meeting of shareholders, inter alia, that the Board of Directors may not consist of more than in conformity with provisions of the Bank’s Articles of Association 10 members; expands the definition of “having banking experience” and in conformity with provisions of the Corporate Act. and increases the number of Board members required to have such experience from one fifth to one third; stipulates that the Board of Directors shall include at least one Board member with proven experience in technology; reduces the list of topics for which Board authority may not be delegated to Board committees; stipulates that the Board of Directors should set policy on the maximum term in office of the Chairman of the Board of Directors; as well as other provisions with regard to Board authority, work and function. The revised directive is effective as from the circular issue date. As for the number and qualifications of Board members, the effective start date is July 1, 2020. The Bank is preparing to implement the revised directive. 141 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Board Of Directors – Committees In 2018, the Board of Directors operated four standing committees1: Name Credit Committee Composition Moshe Vidman – Chair, Zvi Ephrat, Nachshon Yoav-Asher, Liora Ofer, Joseph Shachak, Hannah Fayer. This committee is authorized to discuss general policy issues concerning credit, to formulate recommendations to be brought before the Board of Directors plenum, to Role discuss the annual and multi-annual work plan of the Credit Control Department and to receive periodic reports concerning credit risk. The committee is also authorized to discuss credit applications which are exceptional to the credit policy and to recommend their approval to the Board of Directors plenum. Name Risks Management Committee Composition Moshe Vidman (chairman), Sabina Biran, Ron Gazit, Avraham Zeldman, Abraham Neyman, Jonathan Kaplan, Joseph Shachak. This committee is authorized to discuss issues and policy related to risk management and control at the Bank, capital planning at the Bank and internal control. The committee is authorized to discuss the risk appetite document as well as the master policy document with regard to the risk management and control framework. The committee is also Role authorized to discuss and formulate recommendations to be brought before the Board of Directors plenum with regard to overall strategy targets and overall risk strategy. The committee is also authorized to discuss issues concerning liquidity risk management, business continuity management, new products, the capital adequacy assessment process and the quarterly risk document – and to recommend to the Board of Directors approval of the various risk management policy documents. Name Remuneration Committee Composition Abraham Neyman (chairman), Sabina Biran, Hannah Fayer. This committee is authorized to discuss and make recommendations to the Board of Directors with regard to remuneration policy and procedures, as required by the Corporate Act and in conformity with Proper Conduct of Banking Business Directives. The remuneration policy is required to be in conformity with the Bank's organizational culture, its long-term strategic goals and its control environment – such that remuneration incentives would not encourage risk taking beyond the Bank's specified risk appetite and Role would allow the Bank to maintain a robust capital base. The committee convenes at least once per year to review the implementation of the remuneration policy. Once every three years, the committee shall make its recommendations to the Board of Directors with regard to approval or revision of the current policy. This committee also makes recommendations to the Board of Directors with regard to guidelines for employment and retirement terms of Bank executives and employees and also approves officer remuneration, prior to approval by the Board of Directors and by the General Meeting of shareholders, as the case may be. Name Audit Committee Composition Abraham Neyman (Chairman), Sabina Biran, Mordechai Meir, Joseph Shachak, Hannah Fayer, Avraham Zeldman. The roles and responsibilities of this committee are: discuss any faults identified in conducting Bank business and to propose ways to remedy these faults to the Board of Directors, to specify arrangements with regard to handling complaints by Bank employees with regard to any faults identified in conducting Bank business, to review the quarterly and annual reports to the public, to discuss them and recommend their approval, to approve transactions and actions as specified in the Corporate Act and to Role approve transactions with related persons in conformity with Proper Conduct of Banking Business Directive 312. The Board of Directors also appointed the Audit Committee to be the entity responsible, on behalf of the Board of Directors, for supervision of the work of the Compliance Officer, including execution of the enforcement plan of securities laws and anti-trust laws, as well as its implementation. 1. Note that following changes to the composition of the Board of Directors during the year, changes were also made to committee composition 142 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Board Of Directors – Operation including discussion of all risks facing the Bank, developments in risk control and management in the reported quarter and, The Board of Directors fulfills its functions by means of discussions occasionally, issues of social responsibility. by the Board of Directors plenum, at meetings held at least once a month (or more frequently, as necessary), as well as at meetings During the reported year, no exceptional critical events on economic, of its committees. social or environmental issues were brought before the Board of Directors. During 2018, the Bank Board of Directors held 31 plenary meetings, 4 seminars for Board members and 60 committee meetings. (32 The right of Board members to obtain information and to consult meetings of the Audit Committee, 13 meetings of the Risk Management with various entities in the course of discharging their duties is in Committee, 9 meetings of the Credit Committee and 6 meetings of conformity with provisions of the Corporate Act and provisions of the Remuneration Committee) Proper Conduct of Banking Business Directive 301 by the Supervisor of Banks with regard to “The Board of Directors” and is included in Various issues are brought for discussion by and reporting to the Board operating procedures of the Board of Directors. of Directors. The majority of matters presented at Board of Directors meetings have previously been discussed by the professional parties In justifiable cases, the Board of Directors may be assisted by and control functions at the Bank, as well as by Bank management. external advisors, as set forth in the Corporate Act and in Directive Management recommendations are included, as applicable, in 301. Board members may also, in special cases, obtain professional background material provided to Board members. advice at the Company’s expense, if such expense reimbursement has been approved by the Board of Directors, all in conformity with Operating procedures of the Board of Directors stipulate matters, with and subject to provisions of the Corporate Act and in Directive 301. emphasis on risk management at the Bank, which must be reported to the Board of Directors; these procedures specify the frequency In conformity with the Corporate Act, shareholders may propose and form of such reports and also refer to immediate reports with issued for discussion prior to the General Meeting of shareholders. regard to such events which require such reports: In addition to General Meetings of Bank shareholders, convened by the Bank as required by law, Bank management is in contact with Once a month, the Bank President presents his report, an various interested parties, and reports on such issues that arise, to overview of all Bank operations and special event, including the extent relevant, to the Board of Directors. issues of social responsibility. Once a quarter, Bank management presents an overview to the Board of Directors and to its Risk Management Committee, 143 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Assessment of effectiveness of Board operations – The Bank assesses the effectiveness of the Board of Directors’ operations, Remuneration Policy in conformity with Directive 301, using structured questionnaires. Remuneration of Board members, including external Board members, Once every two years, the Board of Directors self-assesses the other than terms of office and employment of the Chairman of the effectiveness of its operations, in discussion attended exclusively Board of Directors (as described below) is in compliance with Corporate by Board members. Regulations (Rules for remuneration and expense reimbursement for independent board members), 2000 (“Remuneration Regulations”). Bank Yahav assesses the effectiveness of the Board of Directors’ operations in accordance with Proper Conduct of Banking Business On February 14, 2017, the General Meeting of Bank shareholders Directive 301. The assessments made to date have been carried approved, after approval by the Board of Directors and recommendation out by external advisors and discussed by the Board of Directors by the Remuneration Committee, the revised officer remuneration plenum. policy at the Bank (hereinafter “the revised remuneration policy”), effective for three (3) years as from January 1, 2017. In addition, the terms of employment of the Chairman of the Board of Directors and of the Bank President & CEO were approved. This policy is in compliance with the Corporations Act, 1999, Proper Conduct of Banking Business Directive 301A with regard to remuneration policy at banking corporations (hereinafter: “Directive 301A” or “the Remuneration Directive”) and the Remuneration of officers in financial corporations act (Special permission and non-allowance of expenses for tax purposes with respect to excessive remuneration), 2016 (hereinafter: “Executive Remuneration Act”). The revised remuneration policy is based on the general principles which the Bank’s Board of Directors, after recommendations by the Remuneration Committee, saw fit to adopt with regard to officer remuneration at the Bank with due attention, inter alia, to the Bank’s strategic plan and to current employment terms of officers at the Bank. Terms of office and employment of the Chairman of the Board of Directors for the period as from December 1, 2015 were approved by 144 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance the General Meeting of shareholders on March 8, 2016. On February to exceed one half of the performance-based variable remuneration. 14, 2017, a revision of the remuneration terms was approved, and The remuneration package may also include remuneration related to they now include fixed remuneration only. In conformity with the retirement. The mid-term remuneration (annual bonus) and the longrevised remuneration policy, the maximum remuneration as defined term remuneration are designed to align the interests of officers with in the Executive Remuneration Act (i.e. excluding payments for those of the Bank and to strengthen the link between overall Bank severance pay and provident funds by law) for the Chairman of the performance and the officer’s contribution to achievement of such Board of Directors and the Bank President & CEO would be less performance to the officer’s remuneration, in line with the Bank’s risk than -35 times the lowest salary of any full-time Bank employee, profile. According to the revised policy, once the conditions set forth including contractors. The maximum remuneration of other (non in the policy have been fulfilled, part of the variable remuneration Board member) officers will not exceed the amount specified in payment would be divided into multiple installments. The policy section 2(a) of the Executive Remuneration Act, which currently further stipulates that the variable remuneration may be subject stands at NIS 2.5 million. to restitution, in whole or in part, under circumstances listed in the In conformity with the revised remuneration policy, the maximum remuneration policy. variable remuneration shall not exceed 85% of the fixed remuneration, except under special conditions, where the maximum variable remuneration may not exceed 170% of the fixed remuneration. The Bank’s Board of Directors also stipulated that the maximum variable remuneration for officers who are gatekeepers would not exceed 55% of fixed remuneration and that such officers would be eligible for a retention bonus equal to two months’ salary, which constitutes fixed remuneration pursuant to the revised remuneration policy.The remuneration of officers, other than Board members, includes two major components: monthly salary (and associated components) and performance-based variable remuneration (based on the Bank’s performance targets, on individual performance benchmarks and including discretionary remuneration, including objectives that promote goals related to corporate social responsibility), including a monetary bonus and which may include long-term equity-based remuneration not 145 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Furthermore, on March 20, 2017, the Board of Directors resolved, after receiving the recommendation from the Remuneration Committee, to Avoiding Conflict Of Interest approve a revised remuneration policy for all Bank employees, other The Bank applies all statutory provisions with regard to avoiding than officers who are subject to the revised remuneration policy for conflict of interest among Board members. The Bank acts, in this Bank officers, as noted above (hereinafter: “the revised remuneration matter, in conformity with provisions of the Corporate Act, 1999 and policy for all Bank employees”). The revised remuneration policy for provisions of Proper Conduct of Banking Business Directive 312 all Bank employees discusses remuneration terms of key employees “Banking Corporation’s Business with Related Parties”. The Bank’s at the Bank and those of other managers at the Bank and of other enforcement plan also includes detailed instructions on this matter. Bank employees for 2017-2019. According to the revised remuneration policy, the terms of office or employment of all Bank employees include fixed and variable remuneration, as customary at the Bank, as well as retirement terms and any other benefit, payment or commitment to make a payment, provided with respect to the aforementioned office or employment. Provisions for return of variable remuneration, as stipulated with regard to officers, would also apply with regard to return of variable remuneration by key employees at the Bank. The pay for most Bank employees is based on collective bargaining agreements. For more information about the revised remuneration policy, see immediate report dated January 9, 2017, reference No. 2017-01-003454. 146 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Commitment Organized deployment of operating procedures – The Bank strictly complies with statutory provisions To Regulatory through an organized set of operating procedures, working processes and IT systems. The process Compliance of implementing laws and statutory provisions and updates there to are monitored by the Compliance Department of the Risk Management Division. Training and employee publications – Training on various regulatory issues is delivered as part of banking training delivered as part of training of Bank employees and specifically, based on role and department. The Compliance Department publishes from time to time brochures and notices which highlight issues of compliance with statutory provisions. Control over implementation – Compliance is The Bank strictly complies with the law and implements verified, inter alia, by implementing controls over any corporate governance rules and regulations applicable compliance with provisions in various areas. there to. The Legal Division advises on application of Compliance risk identification and mapping – statutory provisions and implications of Bank Group Identify focal points of increased risk, potentially due operations, and also assists in deployment of regulatory to breach of statutory provisions, so as to focus effort updates. The Risk Control Division verifies Bank activities on mitigating such risk and on avoiding such breach. on these fronts: 147 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Handling exceptions – The Bank handles any Compliance And Regular Control exceptions identified by controls, at both HQ and branches. This includes implementation of Over Proper Conduct The Bank maps the regulations and appointed persons responsible recommendations for improved processes and for ensuring compliance with these regulations in all areas. Each controls, verifying that faults are corrected, lessons division is responsible for regulatory compliance in its own area. As learned and disciplinary action taken, if needed. part of compliance operations and implementation of the compliance Anonymous hot line for employee inquiries to culture, the Group provides its employees with training on the following subjects: Compliance, AML and terror financing, bribery and Compliance Department – The Bank operates corruption risk, internal enforcement, cross-border risk, compliance an anonymous hot line for employee reporting, as with international sanctions, anti-trust law, fairness to customers, needed, with regard to fraud and manipulation of proper disclosure and the Code of Ethics. The Group also refers to mandatory non-discrimination against various populations, including securities and other compliance issues. operations involving minorities. Audit – The Bank conducts independent audit of The Bank conducts operational risk surveys with reference to compliance with procedures and provisions related, embezzlement and operates a current system for embezzlement inter alia, to material departments and processes at monitoring. the Bank. The Bank regularly maintains and updates the mapping of compliance Fair competition – The Bank adheres to fair risk and internal enforcement and takes various actions to reduce competition with its competitors, does not promote such risk. any public agenda and does not apply any lobbying. In 2015-2018, no significant fines1 were imposed on the Bank for non-compliance with laws and regulations. For payment by the Bank Fairness – The Bank maintains a fair relationship Group in conjunction with an agreement to conclude an investigation with everyone, in particular with customers, including sales of products and services which match the 1. In July 2018, the Bank received a demand from the Israeli Securities Authority (ISA) customer and their needs. to pay a monetary sanction of a non-significant amount, in connection with a violation of ISA applicable to investment advisors, which took place in 2017 148 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance by the US Department of Justice, see chapter below on this matter. Investigation Concerning Bank Group As part of proper management, the Bank does not promote any Business With Its US Clients public agenda nor does it apply any lobbying. The Bank makes no contributions to any political parties, politicians or official institutions. In 2011, authorities in the USA and in Switzerland have been Such contributions are prohibited in Israel and the Bank complies negotiating the tax treaty between these countries. As requested with the law. The Bank only operates in the public arena as required by Swiss authorities, several Swiss banks, including Mizrahi Bank and only in the context of Bank business. Switzerland, have provided, as from September 2011, to Swiss authorities quantitative data as requested about their business with US customers, to be provided to US authorities. In a letter dated August 2013, Mizrahi Bank Switzerland was informed by the US Department of Justice that an investigation of its business has been launched. In June 2014, the Bank was first informed of expansion of the US DOJ investigation, which would apply to all inter-state activities of the Bank Group with its US clients. The parties negotiated an agreed settlement outline for the Bank Group; on March 12, 2019, the Bank, Mizrahi Switzerland Ltd. and Mizrahi-Tefahot Trust Company Ltd. (“the Bank Group Companies”) and the US Department of Justice signed a Deferred Prosecution Agreement (DPA) (“the Agreement”). In conformity with the agreement, the Bank Group agreed to accept responsibility according to U.S. law (Respondeat Superior doctrine), for the acts and omissions of certain former employees of the Bank Group – private bankers, relationship managers and other employees with similar levels of responsibility – who had acted in breach of its policy and procedures during the years 2002-2012; Acts and omissions (as described in an agreed Statement of Facts, which is 149 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance attached as an exhibit to the DPA) as a result of which US clients reported to the Swiss supervisory authorities. Furthermore, Bank were able to avoid their US tax obligations. Group Companies reported the agreement and details thereof to their relevant supervisory authorities in Israel, Switzerland and the USA. Pursuant to the agreement, the Bank Group paid to the US Government a total of USD 195 million (“the Total Payment Amount”). The Total On March 27, 2019, the Bank received a letter from the Supervisor Payment Amount consists of USD 53 million, reflecting the tax of Banks, requiring the Bank, as the investigation is concluded and payable by the relevant US customers of the Bank Group Companies in view of the agreement reached, to conduct a structured, in-depth to the US Tax Authority; USD 24 million, reflecting the revenues review and lesson learning process, including appointment of an generated by the Bank Group Companies with respect to provision independent commission, headed by a retired judge, to review the of banking services to these customers; and a penalty amounting management and control processes and to formulate any general to USD 118 million. and personal conclusions and recommendations, as needed. On March 27, 2019, the Bank Board of Directors resolved to create The Bank also agreed to take certain actions (the vast majority of such a commission. which are already implemented) relating to the implementation of FATCA mechanisms and to adequate compliance programs, including with regard to relevant affiliated companies. The Bank Group has committed to continue the full cooperation with the US authorities to the extent required by such authorities, with regard to the subject matter of the investigation. Pursuant to the DPA, a deferred indictment (“Information”) against the Bank Group has been submitted to a US court, with respect to the above conducts of the Bank Group employees. The indictment is deferred for a period of two years, such that if the Bank Group complies with the provisions of the agreement, the indictment shall be dismissed at the end of such deferral period, without any conviction. On March 19, 2019, the US Court confirmed the validity of the Agreement. The Bank regularly reported to the Supervisor of Banks about developments in the investigation, and Mizrahi Bank Switzerland 150 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Risk The Bank has an organized system in place for risk control and management including, inter alia, a framework document on risk control, which specifies Management the Bank’s risk appetite, guidelines for risk management and corporate governance (Master Document) and policy documents on management And Control and control of specific risk in various areas. These policy documents are approved at least once per year by Bank management and the Board, by the Risk Management Committee of the Board of Directors and by the Board of Directors plenum and govern, inter alia, how the Bank addresses any risk identified as material risk to Bank operations. These risks include: strategic and reputation risk, credit risk, including environmental risk, financial risk, operational risk including information security and cyber risk, human resources and legal risk, compliance risks including: Compliance and regulatory risk, AML and terror financing, cross-border risk, conduct risk, risk associated with management of online banking, policy with regard to the Bank’s branch strategy, including principles for opening new branches and managing branch closure. In 2018, a new policy was approved with regard to management of overseas affiliate risk. Policy On Responsible focused on investing in liquid, high-quality assets carrying minimum Risk Management credit risk, mostly debentures of the State of Israel. Therefore, the risk level of the Bank’s investment portfolio is low. This policy is The Bank’s investment policy calls for maintaining a low risk profile designed, inter alia, to ensure that deposits from the public are not by holding a loan portfolio which consists mostly of diversified, invested by the Bank in high-risk assets, but maintain a relatively retail loans. In addition, the Bank’s nostro operations are primarily low risk level compared to the banking system. 151 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Bank operations with regard to risk management are in conformity guidelines for the internal control culture at the Bank. The Bank’s with Proper Conduct of Banking Business Directive 310 concerning policy documents explicitly specify the roles of the various corporate “Risk Management”, issued by the Supervisor of Banks in 2012. governance layers for handling internal control (including: compliance, The regulation is primarily based on Basel Committee guidelines AML, legal, operations, fraud & embezzlement) – including roles for risk management, as reflected in recommendations made by of the Board of Directors, management and roles of the specified the Basel Committee. The regulation includes a corporate-wide risk three lines of defense at the Bank responsible for implementing the management concept, listing principles for setting up a framework internal control framework and for review of the effectiveness of the for risk and capital management and control. The regulation also Bank’s internal control system. clarifies the processes required of the Board of Directors in order In 2017, the compliance policy document was expanded to include a to duly discharge its duties pursuant to Proper Conduct of Banking framework for addressing conduct risk. This risk has been addressed Business Directive 310, including a requirement to appoint a Risk by the Bank for some time, was added to the compliance policy and Management Committee of the Board of Directors. According to was approved by the Bank Board of Directors, in view of the great the regulation, senior management is responsible for regular risk importance the Bank attaches to managing this area. management, and is required to create a Risk Management function, and to appoint a Chief Risk Officer to head this function. The regulation Risk management is conducted at Group level; specifically, appropriate lists the responsibilities and position of the Risk Management function forums and procedures have been created to ensure that risk and the Bank fully implements this regulation. management and control processes at Bank Yahav and overseas affiliates of the Bank, too, are in line with Group policy. The Bank has in place custom policy documents in various areas of risk management and control, in support of implementation of Further to the foregoing, in 2018 a new policy document was added statutory and regulatory provisions. In these documents, the Bank’s for management of overseas affiliate risk, in conformity with Bank of Board of Directors set guidelines for risk management, in line with Israel Directive no. 306 “Supervision of overseas affiliates”, issued the Bank’s strategic plan, as well as the principles for risk monitoring in 2018 and effective as from January 1, 2019. Group international and control – Policy which, inter alia, specifies the risk appetite operations include business operations and limited, focused private and has determined that the Bank has zero tolerance to improper banking services via subsidiaries, branches and affiliates in Israel implementation of statutory and regulatory provisions. and in a few countries overseas. The policy document is a key document for setting the framework for risk management and control Dedicated policy documents govern the Bank’s internal control for affiliate operations. system. This framework supports aspects of the Code of Ethics, determines the reporting chain in case of improper action and specified In 2018, other updates were made to various policy documents, 152 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance including the following: Management of credit risk associated with Involvement Of Management And The Board trading activity of customers in derivatives and securities (in particular for speculative customers), specification of principles for opening and Of Directors In Risk Management management of accounts for financial service providers supervised Once a year, Bank Management presents the Bank’s annual ICAAP by the Capital Market Authority, as well as accounts for offering document to the Risk Management Committee of the Board of coordinators registered in the Coordinator Registry of the Israeli Directors, to the Board Audit Committee and to the Board of Directors Securities Authority, and to the policy on AML risk management. plenum. This document reviews corporate governance operations in the area of risk management, risk evolution during the reported year, and in particular the resilience of Bank capital and its stability in the Preventing Terror Financing face of stress events and the outcome of self-assessment carried out by the organization as to the risk level, in conformity with the Bank’s And Trade With Enemy Entities risk appetite and policy and the quality of risk management. The The Bank adopts a risk-based approach that contributes to effectiveness of risk management is also independently reviewed effectiveness of control lines and to properly addressing AML and by Internal Audit and is presented and discussed as part of this terror financing risk, including implementation of risk-based measures process. Board members receive training from time to time on the for mitigating such risk. subject of risk management. AML and terror financing risk through the Bank are part and parcel The Bank’s work plans, which are submitted for approval by of all levels of Bank activity with customers. In order to manage this Management and by the Board of Directors, include a challenge risk, Bank policy includes guidelines in this area. The guidelines relate document prepared by the Risk Control Division, which reviews, to conditions for accepting customers for providing service and for inter alia, the compatibility between the business plans and the conducting transactions, to the required knowledge of the customer Bank’s overall risk appetite. and their business, to classifying Bank customers by risk level, to risk In 2018, the employee mapping process was added to the lines of unique to customers with public exposure, to bribery and corruption defense. This mapping was conducted for various units based on risk, to illegal gambling activities, to preventing terror financing material risk factors managed by the Bank. This process emphasized and trade with enemy entities, to compliance with international the defensive functions for risk management and control, which have sanctions, to rules regarding the activity of correspondent banks been expanded in recent years. Furthermore, a current mechanism and for monitoring unusual activity. for periodic assessment of the effectiveness of the organizational structure of the lines of defense was incorporated in the policy document on risks management framework. 153 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Furthermore, as from the end of 2015, the Bank issues, in conformity during the year . with Bank of Israel directives,a quarterly risk report online, which As part of the review of risk management quality and throughout the contains a similar overview with regard to development of risk RAS process, meetings were held with risk managers, to discuss management and control at the Bank, corporate governance activity and elaborate the outcomes and to identify the challenges and risk with regard to risk management etc. facing the Bank. In addition, a general “heat map” was created for the material risk factors facing the Bank. The “heat map” refers to the risk Review Of Effectiveness Of Risk intensity and likelihood of realization over a one-year horizon. The risk intensity includes the Bank’s current exposure and management Management Processes quality (including controls), and the likelihood of realization takes into account the historical behavior, assessment and knowledge of As noted, the Bank reviews annually the effectiveness of its risk expected developments over the coming year. Note that the heat management. This processes uses structured questionnaires which map includes reference to cyber risk (global risk), compliance and review the positions of various Risk Owners and risk controllers at the regulatory risk, fairness, fraud and embezzlement, Bank preparations Bank, as to the level of risk inherent in activities which they manage for providing customer services during an emergency (business or control, as well as their position on the quality of risk management continuity) and so forth. and control and assessment of the risk trend going forward. The results of the overall qualitative assessment, including In 2018, further steps were taken to reinforce the circle of assessors, developments during the year and expectations for the coming in order to obtain a more complete picture of all aspects from the year and the risk heat map, are discussed by Bank management, different lines of defense. by the Risk Management Committee of the Board of Directors, The outcome of these annual surveys are also compared to previous by the Board Audit Committee and by the Board plenum, and are results to identify any gaps in risk management and control and to submitted for review by the Bank of Israel. identify evolving trends in opinions of managers with regard to the specific risk level and to the quality of risk management and control. As part of this process, a dialogue takes place between risk owners and risk controllers, including discussion of annual work plans and their impact on the level and quality of risk management, with the aim of ensuring that weaknesses identified would be addressed 154 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Management Of As part of its credit risk management policy, the Bank has set policy on environmental risk management in lending. This policy, Environmental as part of the Bank’s risk management and control process, accounts for considerations based on customer quality, repayment And Social Risk capacity, financial robustness, liquidity, reliability, seniority with the Bank, account management and collateral quality – as well as environmental considerations. This is based on the understanding that customer operations may have environmental impact. Based on this concept, the Bank strives to find a balance between the various considerations, including environmental considerations, when providing products and services to its customers. Training relevant employees on environmental risk – For optimal deployment and implementation of the Bank’s environmental risk management policy, training is delivered about processes for credit approval processes and environmental risk assessment. The environmental risk policy stipulates the methodology for identification, assessment and handling of environmental risk. The environmental risk policy is approved annually by the Bank Board of Directors, as part of the policy documents. 155 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Environmental Risks required, in conformity with Standard 19, to refer to any environmental protection aspects, as required by the Standard. Environmental risk to the Bank is the risk of loss which may be incurred due to deterioration in the borrower’s financial position due In case of any indication or suspicion of significant environmental to high costs incurred as a result of environmental hazard (such as: impact, the environmental review is expanded and intensified. air pollution, soil pollution, climate change, hazardous materials Credit approvals are revised annually, or in case of change in the etc.) and regulation concerning environmental protection, or due volume or structure of credit extended to the customer, in which to impairment of collateral exposed to environmental risk or to the case such approvals are discussed more frequently. In case of Bank being indirectly liable for an environmental hazard caused by discussion of extending material credit and the environmental risk a project funded by the Bank. Environmental risk also includes other is also material, the business unit includes reference to this matter risk factors derived from this risk: goodwill, third party liability etc. in the credit application. In recent years, global awareness of the potential financial exposure The Bank’s policy documents include dedicated environmental arising from regulations related to environmental protection has risks policies, including methodology for identification, assessment grown. In conformity with directives of the Supervisor of Banks, and handling of environmental risk. The environmental risk policy banks are required to act to incorporate management of exposure to is approved annually by the Bank Board of Directors, as part of the environmental risk within all risks at the Bank, including specification of policy documents. work processes for identification of significant risk when granting credit and inclusion of risk assessment, if any, within periodic assessment of quality of credit extended. As part of this process, the Valuation Unit also reviews, as needed, any environmental aspects related to land, in order to identify any actual or suspected soil pollution and accordingly, determines the collateral value of the assets referred to it. The business units review customers where the environmental aspect is material and when the approved credit amount is also material. For real estate projects, the external supervisors that accompany the project are required to refer to environmental protection aspects as integral part of the project. Furthermore, when valuating properties as collateral for loans other than housing loans, the valuators are 156 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Social Risk seminars. In addition, employees attending the Senior Lending Course, studied the topic of environmental risk is covered in a Social risk is one of the risk factors facing the banking system. The presentation by representatives of the Risk Control Division on the Bank’s reputation may be impacted by materialization of social risk, Bank’s credit policy, with reference to the issue of environmental such as: Involvement in topics which are socially sensitive, publication risk. In 2018, 68 employees and 23 managers attended the Senior which may offend some demographics etc. Social risk in banking Lending Course. (such as: regulation and money laundering) are included as part of overall risk management at the Bank. In line with Group policy, the Bank reviews all risk and customer information before extending credit; this is a comprehensive process which includes review of all aspects indicating the customer quality, financial robustness, repayment capacity and conduct. Changes to the product mix based on macro-economic changes – The Bank regularly reviews and maps the risk and opportunity in the Bank’s main business lines, inter alia in accordance with macroeconomic changes, and as needed, the Bank modifies the product mix accordingly, and reports branch performance to management in conformity with guidance and the recommended product mix. Implementation And Deployment Of This Issue A major component for including environmental risk in overall lending considerations is internalizing and deployment of awareness of relevant persons to this matter, among those involved in extending loans of material amounts. In order to improve employees’ capacity to apply the Bank’s social and environmental policy, the Bank delivers regular training and 157 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Deployment is a tool for handling issues and dilemmas arising in the normal course of work. Of Business Bank Code of Ethics – values which guide Bank operations: Ethics Commitment Integrity Reliability Loyalty Fairness human rights Transparency Excellence In 2008, the Board of Directors approved the Bank’s Code Full transparency is a prerequisite of corporate governance, and in of Ethics. The Code of Ethics includes the base values for particular as it relates to efficient risks management. Policies of proper Bank operations, including fairness, integrity, transparency disclosure of events, support processes and appropriate organizational and human dignity. The Bank’s Code of Ethics is deployed structure create regular work interfaces which support the Board of across the organization by various training activities, including Directors and allow it to discharge its duties. The Bank’s Board of Directors and management promote, throughout the organization, a an Ethics Committee headed by the Bank secretary, which high level of ethics and integrity. One of the key means for instilling meets monthly to discusses ethical dilemmas that arise from ethics and integrity is the preparation of the Bank’s Code of Ethics the field, and to outlines policies and actions for deployment and its deployment among all Bank employees. of values of the Code of Ethics. The Bank has an Ethics Committee, which convenes monthly, headed by the Bank Secretary, with representatives from headquarters The Code of Ethics units and branches. The Committee works to implement the Code of Ethics on a regular basis and reviews this deployment process. The Bank’s Code of Ethics reflects the Bank Spirit and its organizational The Committee also serves as an address for consultation and culture, as reflected by its management and staff. The Code of Ethics discusses ethical dilemmas arising from the field. defines appropriate rules of conduct for all those acting on behalf The complete Code of Ethics is available on the Bank website. of the Bank, based on analysis of events observed in the field and 158 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Deployment Of The Code Of Ethics Deployment of ethical aspects in employee evaluation In 2018, Bank units continued to deploy the Code of Ethics, using – In the employee evaluation questionnaire, which is one of various tools, in accordance with the work plan: the sources used to make organizational decisions (such as promotion, remuneration etc.), ethical aspects of the employee’s Reporting to management and to the Board of Directors – conduct are also addressed. In accordance with the work plan for deployment of the Code of Ethics, once every quarter, the Management Forum receives Management meeting concerning ethical issues – A monthly a status report on ethics and semi-annually, the Chair of the meeting between Bank management and managers (from Ethics Committee presents to the Board of Directors a report Sector Manager and higher) is convened to discuss ethical on deployment of the code and ethics-related events that issues. took place. Ethical dilemmas – Presentation of ethical dilemmas on the Ethics-related training – In 2018, we delivered 4,831 of Code of Ethics website. training on the Code of Ethics and on ethics issues, to 3,899 employees and managers. Each new employee at the Bank is required to study an E-learning kit with regard to the Bank’s Code of Ethics and also receives in-person training as part of a training course. Use of the E-learning kit on Ethics is monitored. Ethics Week – As part of Ethics-related activities across the organization, in 2018 we held the Ethics Week, designed to place Ethics in the focal point of organizational attention; during this week, all Bank units received training, through a game about ethics in social media. Proactive discussion of ethical dilemmas – As part of the work plan, a proactive discussion of ethical dilemmas is conducted once per quarter, at Bank units in Israel and overseas. These are regularly reported to the Ethics Committee. 159 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Introduction of Ethics as a topic in core courses – A training who filed the complaint, unless this is not feasible (as in the unit on Ethics is incorporated in some banking courses. case of a complaint made anonymously). Manager training – Manager training includes discussions of Measuring the effectiveness of deployment of the Code of ethical issues relevant for managers, based on values in the Ethics – In 2015, a survey was conducted to review the effectiveness Code of Ethics. Furthermore, in 2018 we held a conference of deployment of the Code of Ethics among Bank units, further to for managers, where all managers attended an ethics-related the survey conducted in 2013. This survey reviewed, inter alia, the activity. need to revise the values in the Code of Ethics and highlights for expanding ethics activities across the organization. In 2017, focus Division-level activities – Division-level activities are designed groups were convened in order to analyze the effectiveness of to describe ethical dilemmas and relevant processes for each deployment of the Code of Ethics and to review the need for revision division and to formulate an internal ethics program. of the Code of Ethics. Various ways of contacting – The Bank allows employees The Code of Ethics and the new strategic plan – The Bank’s new to contact with regard to any issue, including ethics-related strategic plan for 2017-2021 highlights the differentiation of Mizrahiissues, in by various channels and at any time. This is done Tefahot as a bank that offers personal, human banking along with by means of contacting the Chair of the Ethics Committee by advanced technology tools. In accordance with this plan and with email, an email address dedicated t ethics-related issues, and Bank policy, which highlights the key position of the Banker, with an online form for anonymous inquiries. External parties may more branches and service positions opened, the Bank deploys address ethics-related issues through the Public Call Center or across the organization the unique values of the Code of Ethics, through the Bank website. The Bank has a procedure in place forming the basis of the Bank’s business and inter-personal conduct. which guarantees protection of the information provider and inquiries may also be sent anonymously. Information about ways to send inquiries is listed on the organizational portal, on the notice board at overseas affiliates and is made public in branches. Moreover, in conformity with a new directive by the Bank of Israel, the Bank issued a public statement with regard to public complaints, worded as specified by the Supervisor of Banks. The Bank maintains constant contact with the person 160 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Our Commitment Mizrahi-Tefahot constantly strives to prevent occurrence of corruption events – by employees, customers and others. To Preventing Prevention of corruption is addressed by the Bank on multiple levels, due to the nature of banking operations. and in Corruption conformity with Section 38 of Proper Conduct of Banking Business Directive 350, whereby banking corporations should identify areas with roles which generate potential conflict of interest for employees, reduce them and subject them to monitoring and independent review. In this regard, the Bank specified a policy on addressing aspects of operational risk and internal control and created control and continuous monitoring processes. This matter is handled by several units at the Bank, which handle different issues: Fraud and embezzlement by employees – Unusual Services in the Human Resources and Administration cases are monitored by the Risk Control Division and Division and by the clearinghouse. referred as needed for handling by the Internal Audit Activities of Bank customers, suspected of being Division. connected to bribery and corruption – are monitored Cases of fraud by Bank clients are monitored and handled by the Compliance Department. and handled by the Information Security and Cyber Cases of theft and robbery are monitored and handled Departments of the Risk Control Division and the by Mizrahi-Tefahot Security Services, the Information Technology Division, by Mizrahi-Tefahot Security and Cyber Security Department and the Audit Division. 161 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Cases related to information and cyber security – in order to avoid their recurrence. Moreover, where required, are monitored and handled by the Information Security a complaint is filed with the Israeli Police and/or reports are and Cyber Departments of the Risk Control Division sent to the relevant authorities. and the Technology Division. Ethics-related cases – are handled by the Chair of The Bank is conducting several key processes to address these the Ethics Committee (the Bank Secretary). issues on two main fronts: prevention and training as well as handling of exceptional cases and events: In all of these cases, when malfeasance is suspected due to monitoring or due to information received, the Audit Division Prevention And Training is involved in review of such event. The Bank reviews these Regular dissemination of operating procedures to cases with debriefs and lessons learned from relevant cases, employees – The Bank specifies rules of conduct for employees, disseminating them to all employees based on the nature of their banking role. E-learning kits for employee training – The Bank disseminates E-learning kits for employees on diverse topics, including: Preventing fraud and embezzlement, bribery and corruption risk, information security, Code of Ethics, anti-trust and inside information. In 2018, the E-learning kits were revised and external Bank employees were added to the population required to study it. Advice and ongoing training – The Compliance Department accompanies ongoing activity in all aspects of risk compliance, by providing ongoing advice and guidance and by delivering in-person training to all branch and headquarters employees. 162 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Event debriefing – The Bank has a methodology in place Risk controllers for operating processes – The Bank to learn lessons and to take action as required to avoid their conducts an on-going effort to conduct risk surveys for operating recurrence (for both events in Israel and overseas). processes across all Bank units, in coordination with unit Deployment of the Code of Ethics – The Bank deploys the managers, designed to identify operating risk associated with Code of Ethics at its different units through various means, their operations, to assess the severity thereof and to specify based on a well-organized plan. the required reinforcement processes in order to mitigate such risk. Anonymous hot line for employee inquiries to Internal Audit – The Bank operates an anonymous hot line and fax Reinforcing the reporting culture with regard to operating for employee inquiries as needed. events – both by dissemination of events to the field, through dedicated conferences and training, debriefing of various Handling Cases And Learning Lessons events and dissemination of conclusions to the field in order to avoid recurrence of such events. Operating identification and control circles – The Bank operates three identification and control circles: The first circle AML system – This system flags exceptional events for is control at branches and business units; the second circle review by the branches (first line) and by the Compliance is at the Human Resources and Administration Division, the Department (second line) and then reported to the AMLAuthority, Accounting and Financial Reporting Division, the Legal Division in compliance with statutory provisions. and the Risk Control Division; the third circle is at the Internal Operational risk steering committee – Headed by the Audit Division. These three circles are designed to allow for Chief Risk Officer, convenes regularly at least once every early identification, prevention, deterrence and handling of quarter, to receive an overview of events that took place, such cases, in as much as possible. action taken and recommendations to be implemented. As Operational Risk Portal at the Bank (“PSTL”) – This is a well as recommendations on revision of operating processes, database of all relevant events, based on directives from the with emphasis on processes to improve customer service, Bank of Israel, which classifies – out of all events – those with appropriate monitoring and risk mitigation. This year we which are exceptional / material for analysis, reporting and conducted multiple processes in this context, to reduce the debriefing, if required. impact of credit card fraud events (forgery / copying), including 163 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance hot alerts to customers in case of suspected inappropriate to the Bank President and to management – and based on the activity using their credit card. circumstances, also to the Board of Directors’ Audit Committee. Information and cyber security risk steering committee – In addition, a debrief takes place and lessons are learned to avoid Headed by the Chief Risk Officer, convenes regularly at least similar occurrences in future. In cases of suspected embezzlement, once every quarter, to discuss information and cyber security a complaint is filed with the Police and the event is reported to the issues, including an overview of events and recommendations Bank of Israel. Bank policy also requires reporting to the Bank’s to be implemented. Internal Audit Department in case of a potential for such event. Internal control forum – a periodic forum responsible for The Bank has policy documents and procedures for handling the integration of internal control areas at the Bank, which embezzlement, fraud and breach of laws and procedures, in which the discusses, inter alia, significant cross-organization events. Bank specified the guidelines and rules for identification, management, monitoring, reporting and control of exposure to risk of embezzlement, Compliance forum – Headed by the Chief Risks Officer and fraud and breach of statute. The Bank also specified the organizational attended by managers of business divisions, designed to raise structure to implement role separation, work processes, IT systems events and cases related to compliance, to discuss material and other tools designed to mitigate such risk. These activities compliance risks and to describe material regulatory changes are incorporated in multiple policy documents with regard to risk and preparations for the implementation thereof. management, such as: Human resource management, rotation, contiguous leave, management of operating risk and so forth. Preventing Fraud And Embezzlement Group employees are required to refrain from receiving any benefits The Bank regularly monitors operations of all branches, designed to in conjunction with their work with customers or suppliers. The Group identify unusual transactions in customer accounts. Embezzlement has clear procedures on this matter and employees are required monitoring covers activities at all Bank branches, designed to to act according to these procedures. Gifts, benefits or special identify and avoid embezzlement-related risk. In case of suspected terms may only be extended to customers in accordance with the embezzlement or irregularities, the Bank applies its policy on relevant procedure, according to a clear authorization ranking and in addressing fraud and embezzlement, which sets the means and conformity with Bank of Israel directives. In order to avoid deviation reporting chain required to address such suspicion. If any breach from these procedures, the Group communicates and provides of Bank procedures by any Bank employee is discovered, the Bank training to employees on this matter. takes disciplinary measures against such employee, in line with the severity of the breach and in line with the values included in the In 2018, we conducted reviews based on a structured work plan Bank’s Code of Ethics. Findings of such investigation are reported across the Group, including with regard to corruption aspects. 164 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Reporting Of Suspicious Events And Corruption-Related Training Handling Of Corruption Events In 2018, we delivered 28,767 hours of training on preventing Each employee is required to report any suspicion of embezzlement, corruption to 4,381 employees and to 998 managers. fraud and breach of statute. This report may be made anonymously. Furthermore, Board members receive training from time to time on A dedicated operating procedure specifies protection for whistlepreventing corruption, fraud and embezzlement. blowers in order to encourage Bank employees to fulfill their reporting duty without any concern about being impacted by such reporting. Reporting can be done in various ways. Bank policy specified the required reporting chain in case of a suspected event or should a material event take place. The reporting chain ensures that the event is managed and all the relevant parties at the Bank are involved, including Human Resources and Risk Management. Any material fraud or embezzlement events are to be immediately reported to the Chairman of the Board of Directors and to the Bank President & CEO. In case of any significant event, the investigation report is sent to the Chairman of the Board of Directors’ Audit Committee, to the Audit Committee, to the Chairman of the Board of Directors and to the Bank President. In 2018, the Bank received one report with regard to fraud / embezzlement, concerning embezzlement by an employee. This report was handled in conformity with Group procedures; the employee in question is no longer employed by the Bank. This matter was reported to the Bank of Israel, in conformity with the Supervisor of Banks’ directives, and a complaint was filed with the police, in conformity with Bank policy. The Bank and Bank customers did not incur any material damage. 165 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Looking Forward Achievement Of 2018 Goals Goals For 2019 G8 l St tus Further impart the topic of environmental risk to other relevant ‫שינוי אקלים‬ departments and employees, through custom training. Further impart the topic of environmental risk to other relevant departments Done and employees, through custom training. Improve the IT capabilities of the Compliance Division to monitor the implementation of regulatory provisions. Continued review of environmental risk when extending significant credit to customers subject to significant environmental aspects, primarily soil, as part Done of the routine work process. Continued deployment of the values in the Bank’s Code of Ethics, in conformity with the annual work plan, using diverse tools, such as: Continued improvement of the compliance culture, analysis and • Conduct division-level activities designed to describe ethical implementation of new compliance directives, and increased control Done dilemmas and relevant processes for each division and to formulate effectiveness. an internal ethics program and continue activity at all levels of the Continued deployment of the process for bribery and corruption risk, Bank: Branches, headquarters units and subsidiaries. Done • Analysis of insights from Ethics Week, with regard to ethics in social including appropriate training and control tools media and formulation of recommendations with regard to proper Continued deployment of the Bank's business fairness concept, through the conduct rules in social media. Done annual training program, focusing on overseas affiliates. ‫ צדק‬,‫שלום‬ • Validation of recommendations made to revise the Code of Ethics ‫וחוזק המוסדות‬ would be the basis for Ethics Week 2019 activities. Continued deployment of the values in the Bank’s Code of Ethics, in conformity with the annual work plan, using diverse tools, such as: Continued monitoring of Bank of Israel directives and current regulation, • Conducting ethics-related meetings of executives with branch and unit including review of their potential impact on Bank operations and managers, together with representatives of the Ethics Committee. customers, and preparation to properly and fairly handle customers • Division-level activities designed to describe ethical dilemmas and in compliance with the content of new legislation. Of the legislation Done relevant processes for each division and to formulate an internal ethics reviewed this year, we should note the Insolvency Act, which would program become effective in September 2019. • Conduct an Annual Ethics Day, with special emphasis on ethical conduct in social networks. Preparation for comprehensive review of handling of outsourcing • Review the need to update the values in the Code of Ethics. providers, as part of a new Bank of Israel directive that would become effective in March 2020. 166 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance External Control and Benchmark Index 167 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Quality assurance certification: Work methodology Mizrahi-Tefahot Group, 2018 Corporate The process of ensuring the quality of corporate social responsibility Social Responsibility Report reports is primarily designed to improve the quality of reporting output, by providing professional feedback. This process reviews whether the report is compliant with three major principles: Introduction 1. Inclusiveness – Reference to all sustainability topics raised during the process of consultation and information gathering Corporate Social Responsibility Institute – This is an independent from a wide range of stake holders. public entity which promotes the concept of corporate social responsibility. The Institute operates as part of the Academic Law 2. Materiality – Reference to matters which are material for company and Business Center, which is a private college (recognized by the operations. Higher Education Council) for law and business administration. The 3. Responsiveness – Reporting of matters raised by stakeholders. Institute operates, inter alia, by conducting professional meetings, compiling reports, studies and market overviews, translating global Findings applied methodologies into Hebrew etc. In May 2019, Mizrahi-Tefahot This report by Mizrahi-Tefahot Group is the sixth report being published, Group contacted the Institute, in order to conduct a quality assurance joining the trend of adoption of sustainability reporting by the entire process for its 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report. banking system in Israel, in conformity with the requirement by the It is noted that the Institute is paid to cover its time spent on this Supervisor of Banks. The report adopts the current GRI reporting process. Furthermore, note that the Institute nor Mr. Liad Ortar guidelines – SRS – in compliance with the Comprehensive reporting (who authored this work) are in any business advisory contact with framework. I hereby certify that Mizrahi-Tefahot Group is in compliance Mizrahi-Tefahot Group and the quality assurance process was with the scope of disclosure and reporting required for this level and independent. During the Quality Assurance process, the draft report is compliant with the three aforementioned principles. was reviewed, comments were made and a statement to ensure This sixth report continues to show a notable trend of professional the aforementioned quality was worded. improvement. 168 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Comments on the report: Intensified dialogue processes with stake holders – This report presents a process of review and re-assessment of issues material for Bank performance, hence also for socialenvironmental reporting. This process included structured data gathering efforts, but the GRI approach is based on the principle of “involving stake holders” or, in our language, dialogue. We recommend that, in addition to surveys, the Bank should also initiate deeper dialogue with representatives of Bank stake holders, in order to enable the aforementioned space for dialogue. Finally, this report presents a review and re-assessment of the material issues reported by the Bank. This effort was comprehensive and included surveys among large sample populations, as well as in-depth dialogue with Bank management. Identifying the material issues to be reported is at the heart of the reporting process, and reporting organizations are expected to re-assess these issues once every few years. The move from general assessment in the previous reports, to a structured, quantitative assessment process, is highly important and a real improvement of the reporting process. Should this methodology be sustained, we could continue to monitor the change in stake holder positions over the years. Congratulations to all involved, Liad Ortar Manager, The Corporate Social Responsibility Institute The Academic Law and Business Center 169 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Combined index: GRI In accordance: Comprehensive | COP UN Global Compact SDGs Sustainable Development Goals General indices Chapter Subject CPI Index Description Report Page UNGC – CoP SDGs 102-1 Organization name 9 102-2 Description of major activities, products and services 10 102-3 Location of organization headquarters 14 Countries in which the organization does business, major countries of operation or those relevant to No specific CoP 102-4 10 issues covered by the report requirement 102-5 Nature of ownership and legal form of incorporation. 10 102-6 Markets served by the organization 10 Organization profile 102-7 Organization size and information about the organization 12 102 General 102-8 Information about the organization's employees 95-100 6 Indicators 102-9 Description of the organization's supply chain 88-90 102-10 Significant changes in the organization and in the supply chain 14 No specific CoP 102-11 Implementation of the principle of diligence approach by the organization 151-154 requirement 102-12 External initiatives, treaties, or principles of corporate social responsibility adopted by the organization 19-20 102-13 Membership of associations / organizations and/or national or international advocacy organizations 15 Certification by the senior decision maker in the organization (such as CEO, Chairman or equivalent) 102-14 4-5 regarding the relevance of sustainability principles for the organization and its strategy No specific CoP Strategy requirement 102-15 Significant impact, risk and opportunity related to corporate social responsibility 6-8, 14, 61-62 170 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Chapter Subject CPI Index Description Report Page UNGC – CoP SDGs 102-16 Description of organization values, principles, standards and behavior norms. 158-160 Ethics and 158-160 10 16.3 integrity Description of the organization's external and internal mechanisms for consultation and 102-17 reporting on ethical and legal behavior and business integrity 163-165 102-18 Corporate governance structure of the organization, including Board committees 163, 139, 144 102-19 Delegation of Board of Directors' authority with regard to corporate social responsibility issues 16-17, 143 102-20 Appointment of senior executive responsible for corporate social responsibility 16 102-21 Processes for consultation with stakeholders on corporate social responsibility issues 143 16.7 102-22 Description of the Board of Directors' composition and committees 142 5.5,16.7 102-23 Does the Chairman of the Board also serve the organization in an executive capacity? 140 16.6 102-24 Description of the appointment process to the Board of Directors and to Board committees 141 5.5,16.7 102 General 102-25 Avoiding conflict of interest 146 16.6 Indicators Corporate The role of the Board of Directors and of organization management in setting organizational No specific CoP 102-26 16-17, 139, 143 governance goals, values and strategy requirement Description of the means for development and promotion of the Board of Directors' knowledge 102-27 16-18 on matters of corporate social responsibility 102-28 Description of the processes for evaluating Board performance 141, 144 102-29 The role of the Board of Directors in identifying and managing corporate social responsibility issues 16-17, 143 16.7 The role of the Board of Directors in reviewing the effectiveness of the risk management 102-30 16-17, 143 process with regard to corporate social responsibility in the organization The frequency of review of economic, social and environmental issues in the organization by 102-31 16-17, 143, 153 the Board of Directors The senior entity that approves the corporate social responsibility report and is responsible for 102-32 22 ensuring that all material issues are reported 171 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Chapter Subject CPI Index Description Report Page UNGC – CoP SDGs 102-33 Processes for communicating critical issues and presenting them to the Board of Directors 16-18, 153 Critical economic, social and environmental issues, which were presented to the Board of 102-34 14, 16-18, 143 Directors and description of the mechanisms to address and resolve such issues 102-35 Description of remuneration policy of the Board of Directors and senior management 144 Corporate 102-36 Description of the process for determining remuneration 144 governance 102-37 Involvement of stakeholders in the remuneration process 144 16.7 No specific CoP 102-38 The ratio of top annual salary to median annual salary 145 requirement The ratio of annual salary percentage increase of the highest paid employee and the median 102-39 145 salary percentage increase of all employees No specific CoP 102-40 Details of groups of stakeholders in the organization 23-24 requirement 102 102-41 Percentage of employees subject to collective bargaining agreements 102 3 8.8 General Dialogue Indicators with 102-42 The process of identifying and selecting groups of stakeholders for conducting dialogue 23-24 stakeholders Description of the organization's approach to dialogue with its stakeholders, including the No specific CoP 102-43 frequency of dialogue with each stakeholder type and group, and whether specific dialogue took 23-25 requirement place in preparation of the report 102-44 Key issues raised in dialogue with stakeholders and how the organization addresses these issues 26-27 Details of entities listed in the consolidated financial statements of the organization and whether 102-45 13, 20 the corporate social responsibility report covers all of these entities 102-46 The process of defining the report content and the impact limits of material issues 22-25, 27 Reporting 102-47 List of material issues identified in preparing the report 26-27 No specific CoP practice requirement 102-48 Re-statement of data from previous reports 22, 99 102-49 Material changes in the list of material issues and their limits, compared to previous reported periods 22-23 102-50 Reported period 22 172 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Chapter Subject CPI Index Description Report Page UNGC – CoP SDGs 102-51 Publication date of the most recent report 4, 6, 22 102-52 Reporting frequency 7-8 102 102-53 Contact person for questions regarding the report or report content 8 Reporting No specific CoP General practice 102-54 The organization's certification of reporting in conformity with GRI Standards 22 requirement Indicators 102-55 Index – GRI Content index 170 102-56 Policy and actual performance with regard to external quality assurance for the report 168 Benchmarks For Material Issues Material Issue CPI Index Description Report Page UNGC – CoP SDGs 103-1 Explanation of the material issue and limits thereof 9 103-2 Administrative approach and components thereof 9 103-3 Measuring the administrative approach 9 201 8.1 ,8.2 ,9.a ,9.1 201-1 Direct economic value generated by the organization 11-12 No specific CoP Economic ,9.4 ,9.5 requirement performance Financial implications and other threats and opportunities in operations of the organization Economic 201-2 155-157 13.1 due to climate change benchmarks 201-3 Liabilities of the organization in respect of retirement plans or employee remuneration and pensions 109 201-4 Government support / grants / assistance provided to the organization in the reported period 13 103-1 Explanation of the material issue and limits thereof 101-102, 111 202 Market 103-2 Administrative approach and components thereof 101-102, 111 6 presence 103-3 Measuring the administrative approach 101-102, 111 173 ,92 101 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing 85-87 in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Material Issue CPI Index Description Report Page UNGC – CoP SDGs Range of initial wage level at the organization compared to the minimum wage by 202 202-1 103 1.2 ,5.1 ,8.5 gender and operating region. Market 6 The rate of senior managers employed from local communities in areas of significant presence 202-2 97 8.5 operations 103-1 Explanation of the material issue and limits thereof 69 103-2 Administrative approach and components thereof 69 203 103-3 Measuring the administrative approach 69 Indirect No specific CoP economic Development and impact of investments in infrastructure and services primarily requirement 5.4 ,9.a ,9.1 impact 203-1 provided for public benefit through commercial arrangement, donation in kind (for 61-62, 70, 84 ,9.4 ,11.2 goods) or pro bono (for services). 1.2 ,8.2 ,8.3 203-2 Significant indirect economic impact of the organization 69-87 ,8.5 ,10.b 103-1 Explanation of the material issue and limits thereof 88-89 Economic benchmarks 204 103-2 Administrative approach and components thereof 88-89 No specific CoP Procurement 103-3 Measuring the administrative approach 88-89 requirement practices The ratio of actual expenditure on procurement from local suppliers in significant 204-1 89-91 8.3 areas of operation 103-1 Explanation of the material issue and limits thereof 161-162 103-2 Administrative approach and components thereof 161-162 103-3 Measuring the administrative approach 161-165 205 Preventing 10 Units of the organization in which a review was conducted to identify corruptioncorruption 205-1 163 related risk and significant risk identified in such review 16.5 205-2 Communication and training on corporate policy and procedures for preventing corruption 164-165 205-3 Corruption events in the reported period and actions taken 165 174 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Material Issue CPI Index Description Report Page UNGC – CoP SDGs 103-1 Explanation of the material issue and limits thereof 126-127 103-2 Administrative approach and components thereof 126-127 8, 7 103-3 Measuring the administrative approach 126-127 Environmental 301 benchmarks Materials 301-1 Weight or volume of materials used by the organization 127, 129 7 8.4,12.2 301-2 Percentage of recycled materials used as raw materials 127-128 8 8.4 ,12.2 ,12.5 301-3 Products and packages returned for reuse, recycling etc. 129-130 103-1 Explanation of the material issue and limits thereof 95, 101-102 103-2 Administrative approach and components thereof 95, 101-102 6 103-3 Measuring the administrative approach 95, 101-102, 123 401 Employment 401-1 Recruitment rate of new employees and turnover rate of employees at the organization 99-100 5.1 ,8.5 ,8.6 ,10.3 Benefits provided to full-time employees which are not provided to part-time or No specific CoP 401-2 105, 113 3.2 ,5.4 ,8.5 temporary employees requirement 401-3 The rate of return to work and employees retention after returning from parental leave 103 6 5.1 ,5.4 ,8.5 103-1 Explanation of the material issue and limits thereof 101-102 Social benchmarks 402 103-2 Administrative approach and components thereof 101-102 Employee– 3 management 103-3 Measuring the administrative approach 101-102 relations 402-1 Minimum advance notice given upon re-organization 102 8.8 103-1 Explanation of the material issue and limits thereof 116 404 103-2 Administrative approach and components thereof 116 Training and 6 103-3 Measuring the administrative approach 116, 119, 123 development 4.3 ,4.4 ,4.5 ,5.1 ,8.2 404-1 Average annual training hours per employee 118 ,8.5 ,10.3 175 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Material Issue CPI Index Description Report Page UNGC – CoP SDGs No specific CoP 404 404-2 Skill development programs that support continued employability of employees 117-118, 120-121 8.2,8.5 requirement Training and development 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 122 6 5.1 ,8.5 ,10.3 103-1 Explanation of the material issue and limits thereof 111 103-2 Administrative approach and components thereof 111 405 Employment 103-3 Measuring the administrative approach 111, 123 diversity 6 and equal Diversity among the organization's management and employees (gender, age, and other diversity 405-1 114-115 5.1 ,5.5 ,8.5 opportunity aspects) 405-2 The ratio of base pay for men and women at each level in significant areas of operation 114 5.1 ,8.5 ,10.3 103-1 Explanation of the material issue and limits thereof 111-113, 120 406 103-2 Administrative approach and components thereof 111-113, 120 Social Prohibition of 6 benchmarks discrimination 103-3 Measuring the administrative approach 111-113, 120 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and action taken 113 5.1 ,8.8 ,16.b 103-1 Explanation of the material issue and limits thereof 120 103-2 Administrative approach and components thereof 120 1, 2 103-3 Measuring the administrative approach 120, 123 412 Number and rate of activities of the organization subject to human rights review or to assessment 412-1 120-121 Human of the impact of such activities on human rights, by countries of operation rights 1 Total training hours in the reported period devoted to the organization's human rights policies or assessment 412-2 procedures and their relevance to the organization's activities, and the percentage of employees 121 who have received training on the organization's policies and procedures with regard to such issues Number and percentage of agreements and contracts for significant investment that include 412-3 89-90 2 human rights clauses or human rights screening 176 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Material Issue CPI Index Description Report Page UNGC – CoP SDGs 103-1 Explanation of the material issue and limits thereof 69-70 103-2 Administrative approach and components thereof 69-70 103-3 Measuring the administrative approach 69-70 The percentage of activities in which the organization involves the local community, in which 1 413 413-1 the impact on the local community was assessed and/or activities that implement community 71-85 Local development programs communities The Group has 413-2 Actions that have significant negative impact on local communities (potential or actual) no significant 1.4 negative G4-FS13 Service locations for disadvantaged populations by area of operation 34-35 No specific CoP requirement G4-FS14 Initiatives to make financial products accessible for disadvantaged populations 54-60 Social 103-1 Explanation of the material issue and limits thereof 51, 53 benchmarks 103-2 Administrative approach and components thereof 51, 53 103-3 Measuring the administrative approach 51, 53 The type of information required to be provided according to the organization's procedures with 417 417-1 regard to products and services offered by the organization, and the percentage of significant 52-53 Marketing categories of products and services subject to such requirements No specific CoP and labeling The number of cases in the reported period of failure to comply with binding regulation and/or with requirement of products 417-2 53 and services voluntary codes concerning information and labeling of products and services 16.3 The number of cases in the reported period of failure to comply with binding regulation and/or with 417-3 53 voluntary codes concerning marketing communications G4-FS15 Policies for the fair design and sale of financial products and services 51-56 Description of initiatives designed to promote financial education for Bank customers and for the 41, 56, 77-79, G4-FS16 public at large 117-118 177 Investing in Customers Investing in the Community Investing in Employees Investing in the Environment Corporate Governance Material Issue CPI Index Description Report Page UNGC – CoP SDGs 103-1 Explanation of the material issue and limits thereof 63 418 103-2 Administrative approach and components thereof 63 No specific CoP Customer 103-3 Measuring the administrative approach 63 requirement privacy Total number of justified complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and loss of customer 418-1 50 data 103-1 Explanation of the material issue and limits thereof 147-148 419 Compliance 103-2 Administrative approach and components thereof 147-148 with No specific CoP social and 103-3 Measuring the administrative approach 147-148 requirement economic regulation Significant fines and sanctions imposed on the organization for failure to comply with social and 419-1 136, 148 16.3 economic regulation 103-1 Explanation of the material issue and limits thereof 151, 155 Social Control over benchmarks policy and 103-2 Administrative approach and components thereof 151, 155 management No specific CoP of social and 103-3 Measuring the administrative approach 151, 155 requirement environmental risk Coverage and frequency of audits to assess implementation of social and environmental policy and G4-FS9 143 processes for management of social and environmental risk 103-1 Explanation of the material issue and limits thereof 61 103-2 Administrative approach and components thereof 61 Bank 103-3 Measuring the administrative approach 61 No specific CoP product 9 requirement profile G4-FS6 The value of the portfolio of products and services provided by the organization 32-33, 61-62 G4-FS7 Monetary value of products designed to promote social goals 62 G4-FS8 Monetary value of products designed to promote environmental goals 61 178
