2018 HUMANITARIAN ENTREPRENEURSHIP REPORT 02 V E S T ER G A A R D.CO M 2018 H . E . R EP O R T 03 LETTER OUR IMPACT FROM OUR CEO Vestergaard’s humanitarian products have benefited over 1.6 billion people worldwide. These products contribute to over half of the In 2018, the Vestergaard team regularly 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals. reminded me of their drive to consistently do more when it comes to helping vulnerable people in need. 5.5+ million Our public health unit, the leading manufacturer of long-lasting-insecticidal nets (LLINs), reacted to the significant rise in malaria cases after years LifeStraw ® water filters and purifiers of decline. Vestergaard experts became highly vocal advocates at malaria are providing safe water and preevents throughout the year, calling for equitable access by all countries to venting waterborne illness around the most effective vector control tools and for prevention of low quality the world. LLINs. We also scaled up production to meet the increasing demand for our 800,000 million PermaNet ® 3.0 LLINs which have increased efficacy against insecticide resistant mosquitoes. PermaNet ® long-lasting insecticidal TABLE OF CONTENTS nets have protected an estimated Providing safe water amount of 1.6 billion people to date Our water unit provided safe water to communities following natural disasfrom malaria. Our Impact . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 03 ters. We reached a milestone with the LifeStraw give back program through ® which every product purchased provides a school child in need with safe Values That Guide Us . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 04 water for an entire year. By the end of 2018, the program reached over two million kids and expanded from Kenya to include India and Mexico. We con6.5+ million Designing Responsible Products . . . . . 06 tinued to provide LifeStraw Guinea worm filters (over 38 million through ® 400,000 2018) to eradicate a disease that afflicted 3.5 million people in 1986 and only ZeroFly ® Storage Bags are supporting Public Health Impact . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 07 28 people in 2017. food security by protecting post-harZeroFly ® Screens, Targets and Traps vest crops from losses due to pest are keeping tsetse flies from infectWater Impact . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 08 Eliminating sleeping sickness infestation. ing humans and animals with sleepOur food security unit, one of the only suppliers and donors of vector coning sickness disease. Food Securit y Impact . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 09 trol tools to fight sleeping sickness, continued to provide ZeroFly ® Targets and Traps to countries plagued by this deadly disease. In 2018 we continued Suppor t for Communities in Need . . . . 10 our multi-year donation, giving an additional 60,000 ZeroFly ® Tiny Traps to a consortium working to eliminate sleeping sickness by 2020. 38 million Operating with Integrit y . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 Integrity and respect LifeStraw ® Guinea worm filters Respect for Employees . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 On the operations side, we incorporated additional measures to ensure that are helping eradicate Guinea we function with integrity and respect. For our employees, we added beneworm disease. Responsible Supply Chain . . . . . . . . . . . 14 fits to demonstrate our appreciation for their dedication to positive change and a can-do-attitude that allows Vestergaard to make a global impact. Occupational Health & Safet y . . . . . . . . 15 Environmental Stewardship . . . . . . . . . 16 Mikkel Vestergaard, CEO Global Footprint . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18 Vestergaard. 04 V E S T ER G A A R D.CO M 2018 H . E . R EP O R T 05 OUR FIVE VALUES. 01 PASSIONEERING ® We believe that true innovation of life saving products is created at the intersection of our passion to drive global change and our cutting-edge engineering or what we call Passioneering ®. Within this unique passion-driven creative space we engineer human-focused solutions, designing game changing products and building programs that deliver real social, environmental and public health impact. 02 INNOVATIVE CHALLENGER We approach challenges with an “everything is possible” attitude and push the boundaries on business as usual to find more effective solutions and smarter ways to address global health and development problems. Vestergaard values immersive engagement, diverse opinions and expertise from the private sector, public sector experts, scientists and engineers we work with to develop high quality products and sustainable solutions. 03 DELIVER WITH PRECISION We make considerable investments in scientific research and development to spur the creation of new products and to refine current ones. We rely heavily on data-driven evidence, in the lab and in the field, and encourage independent verification by third parties. We are also committed to raising industry standards to ensure the best products reach the people who need them. FIVE VALUES GUIDE WHAT WE DO. AND THE 04 SPEED OF RESPONSE Keenly aware that timely delivery of our products and services impacts lives, we have established state-of-the-art production facilities and flexible supply chains to quickly produce SPIRIT IN WHICH products at scale. We ensure rapid delivery to end users through strategic distribution networks in concert with local governments, aid agencies, NGOs, retail markets and business WE DO IT. entities. And, we encourage dialogue with the people who use our products to drive adoption and optimize impact. 05 RESPONSIBILITY Vestergaard is committed to defining the role of the private sector in doing good. We believe that corporates can and should have responsibility at the core of their missions. On the operational front, we have been a member of the UN Global Compact since 2007 and embrace its code of conduct to protect human rights, maintain fair labor practices and safe work environments, respect employees and business partners, defend the environment and root out corruption. 06 V E S T ER G A A R D.CO M 2018 H . E . R EP O R T 07 PERMANET® 3.0 PUBLIC HEALTH IMPACT ADVOCATING FOR THE MOST EFFECTIVE MAL ARIA PREVENTION Long Lasting lnsecticidal Nets have been the frontline defense against malaria, responsible for 68 percent of the 6.2 million lives saved between 2000 and 2015. However, data from 2015-2017 WHO World Malaria Reports shows that progress has stalled. There were 3.5 million more cases among the ten highest burden African countries in 2017 than in 2016. Pyrethroid resistance is threatening DESIGNING the efficacy of LLINs and jeopardizing the larger public health goal of eliminating malaria. RESPONSIBLE As a social good company, our mandate is to deliver innovative global health tools. While developing and testing the next generation of LLINs, Vestergaard is a vocal advocate for the acceleratPRODUCTS ed deployment of the most effective prevention tools available today to drive impact, PBO LLINs, LIFESTR AW ® HOME and getting malaria control back on track. Our messages this year were two-fold. Vestergaard designs products to be fit for the people, 2018 PRODUCT HIGHLIGHTS LIFESTR AW ® FLEX GR AVIT Y FILTER purpose and context for which they will be used. 1: In the drive for universal coverage, greater efforts should be directed to ensure country programs have equitable access to the right tools in the right place and data to inform their decisions. OUR PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT CRITERIA PERMANET® 3.0. In 2018, this LLIN, with increased efficacy against insecDesigned without the need for repeat intervention ticide resistance, was purchased by the President’s Malaria Initiative and 2: Quality matters. There is growing consensus about the need for consistent standards around the Technologically advanced but easy to use and maintain the Global Fund for countries with serious documented resistance to pyrequality of LLINs with a greater adherence to WHO prequalification specifications. We believe each Affordable at scale throids including Burkina Faso, Ghana, Tanzania and Nigeria. This expands LLIN manufacturer must be held accountable for the quality of each net. Accountability is about Durable and long-lasting even in harsh environments distribution of 10 million PermaNet 3.0 nets to more than a dozen countries. ® responsibility—holding each other responsible to achieve our common goal—eliminating malaria. Responsible—minimizing negative environmental impact Vestergaard has scaled up production to meet the increasing demand. We drove these important messages with an active voice at major malaria events throughout the COMMITMENTS For every LIfeStraw purchased at retail, ® year. We spoke directly with like-minded stakeholders such as the Bill and Melinda Gates FounWithin five years, we will scale up our production dation and the President’s Malaria Initiative, working to form coalitions, and reached larger audicapacity for new products, enabling us to switch our a school child in need receives safe water for ences by hosting educational symposia and participating in events. Some venues we attended: entire supply for our key donors and partners to an entire school year. affordable PBO and next generation PermaNet® nets only. FEBRUARY Asia Pacific Leaders Malaria Alliance, Bangkok. LIFESTRAW FLEX GRAVITY FILTER. Designed for groups hiking, camping or ® APRIL Multilateral Initiative on Malaria conference, Dakar. In 2020, we will launch a high throughput emergency impacted by natural disasters, the two-stage filtering system removes micro­ Commonwealth Malaria Summit, London. LifeStraw ® purifier with an option for heavy metals plastics and lead while filtering out bacteria and parasites. The ultralight, verreduction for this product. MAY Malaria No More Gala–World Health Assembly, Geneva. satile filter can be used alone as a straw filter or in-line with a hydration pack. JULY 1st Malaria World Congress, Melbourne. SEPTEMBER UN General Assembly, New York. Evidence based product claims and testing LIFESTRAW ® HOME. The sleek at-home water filter pitcher, launched early All products undergo independent testing and certification 2019, is sustainably made (using glass and recyclable plastic components) OCTOBER UN Foundation Global Dialogue, New York. by accredited laboratories against global standards, includand is the first to address serious water quality issues in well-resourced naPan African Mosquito Control Association Annual Meeting, Victoria Falls. ing the National Science Foundation, the US Food and Drug tions, including contaminants in tap water. LifeStraw ® Home protects against RBM Sub-regional Network Meeting, Dakar. Administration and the World Health Organization. bacteria, parasites, microplastics, lead and a variety of harmful chemicals. NOVEMBER American Society of Tropical Medicine & Hygiene meeting, New Orleans. 08 V E S T ER G A A R D.CO M FOOD SECURITY IMPACT 2018 H . E . R EP O R T 09 HELPING ERADICATE WATER IMPACT SLEEPING SICKNESS GIVING BACK THROUGH RETAIL For every LifeStraw ® product purchased, a school child in need reCONTRIBUTING TO GUINEA WORM ERADICATION ceives safe water for an entire school year. Since its inception in 2014, When Guinea worm disease is eradicated, it will be the first disease the give back program has provided over 2 million children with safe to be removed from the planet without the use of a vaccine. water for an entire year. This program is fully supported and sustained by retail purchases, providing consumers with a tangible way to adOVERALL We have provided over 38 million LifeStraw ® Guinea dress the global water crisis. worm filters to The Carter Center for eradication of the disease. At the end of 2018, our give back program IN 1986 There were 3.5 million annual cases of Guinea worm reached over 2 million children. disease in roughly 21 countries. IN 1994 LifeStraw ® began working with The Carter Center, creating a simple mesh filter to remove Guinea worms from drinking water. 2,190,569 children with one year safe water 1999+ This work evolved into the first LifeStraw ® pipe filter. 1,633 229,423,200 10,482 Throughout the following decades, we have continued Schools Litres of water Follow-up visits to provide these filters to The Carter Center, and have increased the number of filters that Vestergaard is donating to the cause. LifeStraw ® held its first give back program in western Kenya in 2014. IN 2015 Beginning this year and in all subsequent years, 100% Since then, the program has expanded to include India in 2017 and Sleeping sickness, known also as trypanosomiasis, is a deadly World Health Organization, the Pan African Tsetse and Trypof the Guinea worm filters provided to the Carter Center Mexico in 2018. disease which in one form or the other is prevalent throughanosomiasis Eradication Campaign (PATTEC), the US Food & were donated by LifeStraw ®. out most of Africa. It accounts for sickness and deaths among Agricultural Organization and the Bill & Melinda Gates FounLifeStraw ® is committed to designing lifesaving products and imIN 2017 LifeStraw donated 149,000 Guinea worm filters, for ® livestock and agricultural losses, thus enhancing rural poverty. dation as a long term partner in the fight towards elimination. plementing them in the field. Therefore, rather than just drop off distribution in African countries affected by Guinea In humans, trypanosomiasis is endemic in some parts of Africa. filters, we conduct extensive training on-site and employ local staff worm disease. Vestergaard manufactures various types of tsetse fly screens, who conduct follow up for five years. For the past 20 years, Vestergaard has been one of the only intraps and targets which are impregnated with deltamethrin, a IN 2018 LifeStraw ® donated 192,000 Guinea worm filters which ternational suppliers and donors of high-quality long-lasting biodegradable insecticide, and function by attracting tsetse have been distributed to three countries with the This comprehensive approach ensures sustainability of the provector control tools to fight against sleeping sickness. In this flies to the cloth screens that trap and/or kill them. This techremaining 28 cases. gram and the public health impact. In Kenya, 97.5% of the give back regard, we are recognized by key organizations such as the nique reduces tsetse numbers significantly. program staff are local. They collect usage data during regular visIN 2019 We will provide more than 300,000 filters to its and share this information on our website. The Carter Center. 10 V E S T ER G A A R D.CO M 2018 H . E . R EP O R T 11 Ukhia-Cox’s Bazar-Bangladesh/Kutupalong Refugee Camp. Support for communities in need Emusanda Maternity Ward THE LIFESTRAW ® WATER FUND The LifeStraw ® Safe Water Fund is a 501(c)3 organization run by LURAMBI DIVISION, KENYA. the New Venture Fund. It provides a means for socially-mindOn International Women’s Day in 2018, Vestergaard opened ed individuals and organizations to engage in high-impact the doors of a 12-bed maternity ward in western Kenya’s safe water programs around the world and respond rapidly Lurambi Division that the company had funded. The ward, to emergencies. equipped with technologies previously unavailable in this region, provides high quality maternal and neonatal The Safe Water Fund enables us to crowdsource contributions from Support for Cox’s Bazar Bangladesh Refugees healthcare to the rural women of this community. Since individuals, non-profits and foundations in order to expand our opening, there have been an average of 9 births per month, ability to respond to disasters and serve school children in vulneraThe Rohingya people are a religious and ethnic minority who forIn 2018, LifeStraw ® began operating a product service and distribuwith a total of 91 births in 2018! The Emusanda Maternity ble communities around the world. merly lived in the Rakhine State within Myanmar, but were forced out tion center there to provide safe water. Working with global NGO Ward demonstrates Vestergaard’s long-standing commitwhen their village was destroyed by extreme violence and discrimpartners, LifeStraw ® has provided over 3,000 LifeStraw ® Family 2.0 ment to the health and well-being of this community and The Safe Water Fund has supported our work in Argentina, Haiti, Inination in 2017. Over 700,000 Rohingya refugees crossed the border and over 300 LifeStraw ® Community purifiers to the refugee comthe government of Kenya. dia, Kenya and South Sudan, as well as funded our involvement in into Cox’s Bazar, Bangladesh to live in a temporary settlement, the munity last year and will continue to support it until a long-term recent natural disasters in Puerto Rico, India and Indonesia. Rohingya Refugee Camp, which houses over 1 million refugees. living solution is provided. Tsunami in Palu, Indonesia Kerala, India Floods LifeStraw ® Par tnership with Conser vation Alliance Venezuala Malaria Resurgence Vestergaard raised funds for 26 LifeStraw ® Community water Supported installation and training of 650+ LifeStraw ® Community Developed a Special Edition “Big Adventure, Small Footprint” Donated 3,000 PermaNet® 2.0 hammocks to Eglee and Stanford purifiers, distributed by implementation partners including the purifiers and 1,500 LifeStraw Family 2.0 purifiers, in partnership ® LifeStraw Go bottle with a portion of the proceeds from sales ® Zent from the Venezuelan Institute for Scientific Research to H.E.A.R.T Foundation and Team Rubicon. with the Art of Living Foundation, secured through a procurement going to The Conservation Alliance. mitigate the health emergency among indigenous populations by WHO and the Government of India. of the Venezuelan Amazon. Project SOURCe in Aurora, Philippines Par tnership with Jaguar Land Rover & ClimateCare 1,995 LifeStraw ® Family 2.0 water purifiers distributed to Sleeping Sickness Elimination 349,468 children in the hardest to reach areas of rural western Par tnership with Abercrombie & Kent Philanthropy households and 299 LifeStraw ® Community purifiers installed in Donated 60,000 ZeroFly ® Tiny Targets to an international Kenya now have safe water due to the partnership between Working in partnership with the luxury global travel company, community establishments within Aurora, providing safe water to consortium working to eliminate sleeping sickness by 2020. LifeStraw and Jaguar Land Rover & ClimateCare. ® provided safe water to the Maasai people of western Kenya. 15,000 people. The campaign, spearheaded by the NGO ASSIST, In 2018, covered all schools around the Masai Mara, reaching partnering with financing organization Deutsche Investitions Refugees in Cambodia Bed Nets for DRC 14,632 children. In early 2019, the partnership is expanding to (DEG) and Vestergaard, was called “Supply of unpolluted clean Donated 64,800 PermaNet® 2.0 nets to the CDC for distribution to Denoted 2,000 PermaNet® 2.0 nets to the Malaika Foundation for reach over 1,000 children in Vietnam and in mid-2019 will reach drinking water to rural communities in the Philippines” (SOURCe). refugees in internally displaced person (IDP) camps in Cambodia. distribution in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. communities in Tanzania. Kingsley Holgate Expedition—Cape Town to Nepal Malaria Resurgence in South Africa Refugees in Kenya Donated PermaNet nets and LifeStraw water filters to Kingsley ® ® Donated 60,000 PermaNet 3.0 to the Ministry of Health in South ® Donated 85,200 PermaNet® 2.0 nets to the Centers for Disease Holgate’s first-ever Cape Town, South Africa to Kathmandu, Nepal Africa to address the resurgence of malaria, in partnership with Control and Prevention (CDC) for distribution to refugees in trek, for distribution to hard-to-reach populations along the way. singer Yvonne Chaka Chaka’s Princess of Africa Foundation. IDP camps in Kenya. 12 V E S T ER G A A R D.CO M 2018 H . E . R EP O R T 13 We’re proud to report that nearly half OPERATING WITH INTEGRIT Y of all employees have been with the company for 5+ years. GUIDING POLICIES WHICH SUPPORT The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) encourages companies to THE CODE OF CONDUCT act as socially responsible members of the international community, abiding by ten UNGC principles which dictate responsible behavior with DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY POLICY regards to human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. VestEMPLOYEE HANDBOOK ergaard has been a devoted member of the UNGC since 2007. Our Code TRAVEL POLICY of Conduct mirrors its ten principles and includes guidelines regarding PROCUREMENT POLICY doing business with integrity, avoiding bribery and corruption, protectDISTRIBUTORS AND AGENT POLICY ing assets and creating a positive workplace. IT POLICY MONITORING Vestergaard’s Internal Compliance Council oversees implementation QUARTERLY INTERNAL WHISTLE-BLOWER COMPLIANCE COMPLIANCE and adherence to the Code of Conduct. The Council reports to VesterCERTIFICATION HOTLINE COUNCIL (ICC) gaard’s Board of Directors. All employees receive compliance training RESPECT FOR EMPLOYEES and participate in business meetings or working sessions related to QUARTERLY COMPLIANCE Compliance. Employees are encouraged to report infringements through REPORTING secure mechanisms internally or externally. All reports are followed up. Vestergaard’s bold and passionate employees are the COMPREHENSIVE POLICIES ENSURE EMPLOYEE RIGHTS company’s most valuable and valued assets. Code of Business Conduct & Ethics Equal Employment Opportunities We seek a diverse workforce and offer the same opportunities to Child Labour ENFORCING QUARTERLY all employees regardless of race, gender or ethnic affiliation. Flexible Working Hours ANNUAL RISK COMPLIANCE REPORTING ASSESSMENT Anti-Harassment An Internal Audit Plan, updated annually, verifies Living our mission in Kenya Maternity, Paternity, Adoption & Parental Leave INTERNAL AUDIT PLAN that all systems, monitoring, and measurement Each year, Vestergaard staff are invited to participate in LifeStraw ® ’s Recruitment and Induction INTERNAL MANAGEMENT & components are in place to ensure ongoing comBOD REQUESTS CONTROL give back program implementation. In 2018, more than 70 staff ACTIVITIES pliance. travelled to rural Kenya where they spent 7 long days, mostly in the field, eating meals on the go, while they helped set up LifeStraw ® Community purifiers at schools throughout the region, demonWORKFORCE STRUCTURE—2018 strated our technology and entertained thousands of kids at 525 schools. 50% Female COMMITMENTS 50% Male In 2018, all employees followed compliance training (Code of Conduct) using a newly In 2019, Vestergaard will continue to provide compliance training to new staff and will develop a plan to provide continuous and tailor-made compliance training, Through this program, employees get to experience and embrace Vestergaard’s driving principles. This enhances loyalty to the com139 Total Staff instituted online compliance learning platform. including evaluating the possibility of adopting a micro-learning platform. pany and motivation to support our mission. 17 Nationalities 14 V E S T ER G A A R D.CO M 2018 H . E . R EP O R T 15 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFET Y Many improvements to the work environment were instituted in 2018 RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN 20% 5% REDUCED PHYSICAL WASTE REDUCED PBO WASTE On our polyester net production lines by standBy upgrading a new pumping device at the exImproved Management Systems Conducted ardizing the cutting process with semi-autotrusion workshop. In 2018, our manufacturing sites maintained their SA8000:2014 Extensive Training matic cutters and other measures. accreditation verified through bi-annual audits performed by Training in 2018 totalled 6.04 hours per reputable international auditing bodies. production employee for 1764 employees. As part of SA8000 improvements, in 2018 human resource Topics included: management software was successfully launched at our main Chemical safety & emergency manufacturing facilities and is being used to ensure accurate spillage response practice for implementation of social management practices such as fiTier 1 & Tier 2 suppliers nancial compensations and benefits for employees. Labour safety & hygiene First aid Received High Grades from WHO PQ Audit SA8000 ® In November 2018, a World Health Organization (WHO) PreQualification (PQ) inOPTIMIZED THE AUTOMATIC CHEMICAL OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH CHECKS IMPROVED WORKING CONDITIONS at spection team visited our two manufacturing facilities in Vietnam. After a thorough Fire safety & MIXING SYSTEM at the coating process Conducted on 100% of operators the knitting workshops by moving the 10-day audit, they deemed the sites to be highly compliant against audit requirefire drills line to contain chemicals in an integrat(935 workers) at our main manuoil heating devices outside the workments. Vestergaard appreciates WHO’s commitment to a PQ system for LLIN maned, controlled system. Ensures accurafacturing site. shop, reducing the workshop temperaRadiation safety ufacturers to ensure that the highest quality nets are deployed to communities of cy and reduces the risk of mistakes; imture by 3° C (5.6° F). people who desperately need them. proves work safety and efficiency. COMMITMENTS COMMITMENTS In 2019, our main factory employees will receive ISO14001:2015 In 2019, human resource management software will be launched By 2019, we will complete all Tier 2 supplier training By 2019, we will upgrade the fire alarm system of our main manufacturing environmental management system training. at our newest manufacturing facility. and upgrade their practices on O.H.S. standards. site with the installation of a central fire alarm network. 16 V E S T ER G A A R D.CO M Improved ef ficiency of wastewater treatment 2018 H . E . R EP O R T 17 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP Vestergaard continuously strives to find ways to produce with less usage of water and energy resources and less waste. Reduced waste Saved energy Reduced the waste of our polyethylene yarns by continuously Improved efficiency of wastewater treatment from the comimproving our extrusion lines. pounding line through implementation of bio-treatment at the waste water treatment plant of the manufacturing site (vs. external treatment). 32% WASTE Improved tracking of water consumption during production with REDUCTION installation of a water gauge at the waste water plant to monitor consumption and discharge activity. Data will help us identify ways to reduce water consumption. Reduced hazardous waste by 50% through better control of the imImproved waste water treatment by separating cooking oil from pregnation process, resulting in less defective, wasted netting (measkitchen waste water at the factory kitchen by installing an oil sepured by kg hazardous waste/month/employee; compared to 2017). arator at the canteen of the site. Collected oil and grease are sent to an external authorized service provider for disposal treatment. Eliminated the use of 224,000 plastic bags for LifeStraw prod® ucts (approximately 3 tons) as a result of improved packaging and Reduced electrical consumption by 30% through increased mahandling practices. chine efficiency and worker training (measured by Kwh/month/employee; compared to 2017). Improved LLIN stuffing inside containers by 45% in 2018 vs. 2014 ELIMINATED 3 TONS for the most purchased LLINs, reducing the number of containers OF PLASTIC BAGS needed on the road and at sea and decreasing the cost to our customers who mostly pay for outbound logistics. COMMITMENTS In 2019, we will aim to recycle extrusion waste up to 100% (i.e., targeting zero waste for external treatment and disposal). In 2019, LifeStraw ® will reduce 4.5 tons of plastic, an additional 250,000 foam bags, and convert 6 tons of packaging paper to FSC® certified packaging paper. By the end of 2020, Vestergaard will obtain ISO 14001:2015 Q1. Effectively Q2. Building the Q3. Implement Q4. Continuous conducting the environmental and improve the improvement, certification at its main manufacturing site. Here’s our training of ISO 14001 management management external audit and roadmap: with emplyoees. system. system. accreditation. 18 V E S T ER G A A R D.CO M 2018 H . E . R EP O R T 19 S WIT ZERL A ND, EUROPE WASHINGTON D.C., NORTH AMERICA VIETNAM, ASIA ISO/IEC 17025 accredited water testing lab in Hanoi. INDIA, ASIA GHANA, AFRICA Renowned VestergaardKENYA, AFRICA NMIMR Vector Lab OUR GLOBAL FOOTPRINT VISIT US AT VESTERGA ARD.COM TO LE ARN MORE
