SERIOPLAST COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UN Global Compact INDEX Profile 3 CEO’s Statement 5 Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact 6 Human Rights 7 Labour 10 Environment 12 Anti-Corruption 15 PROFILE Serioplast was established in 1974 as a family company focused on the production of rigid plastic packaging for the major players of the Fast Moving Consumer Goods industry in the home care, personal care and food & beverage markets. For full company profile click here. 270 Mn € 1600 We produce GLOBALLY, Turnover Employees with the best possible QUALITY 14 30 and at the lowest possible PRICE Countries Plants in a way which is SUSTAINABLE Global Presence PROFILE Group Structure Serioplast Global Services is the legal entity established as is the global headquarter of the Serioplast Group and as such is responsible for the management and coordination of all group divisions that are in charge of industrial activities, operating as a service company through competent departments. The global headquarter defines policies, group standards, procedures and guidelines for all the companies within the group. Photo by Alejandro Vecchiettini, Technical Manager, USA OUR CEO’S STATEMENT I believe sustainability in all its facets can be a new guiding force for corporate strategies, growth and global development, from which responsible business activities can thrive. In confirming Serioplast’s ongoing support to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption, we commit as a Group to align our corporate culture, strategy and daily operations to such principles. At all levels it is in our company’s interest Today more than ever we are called that improper conduct does not occur upon to tackle the problem of single use within our headquarters and our plastic and play our part in the shift operations. towards a diversified and responsible supply chain, implementing good With operations in 14 countries business practices which preserve and throughout the globe, we promote a restore the Environment. culture of diversity and collaboration, free from discrimination of any kind and This is our first COP and we consider it respectful of the dignity of every both a commitment and a motivator to employee. Moreover, it is our duty to advance further on assessing and ensure safety on the workplace and fair improving our conduct in all the areas opportunities of professional growth for considered, sharing progress on a yearly everybody. basis with our stakeholders through all relevant communication channels. As plastic converters, we acknowledge our responsibility towards the natural Sincerely, environment, and we are actively working to reduce our impact on various Delia Innocenti fronts. TEN PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. HUMAN RIGHTS Assessment policy and goals The Serioplast Group, together with its employees and business partners, respects and adopts the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Explicit references to the Universal Declaration and its timeless values are made in the Serioplast Code of Conduct, the document which guides all of us in our daily activities and occupations, to “ensure that the Company is constantly oriented to the highest ethical standards”. Under the chapter Staffing Policy it is clearly stated that harassment is not tolerated. Serioplast states such values also in the corporate Manifesto, which is the point of reference for our corporate identity and for the motives which should drive our business. With reference to human rights principles, “we offer a safe workplace, respectful of the dignity of every employee” and “we want everybody to feel protected by our Ethical Code and to feel free to report breaches or violations”. The handbook for the daily implementation of these principles is the Global Regulation, widespread to all Serioplast employees trough the Company intranet, which contains all the official documentations and procedures. Policies within Serioplast are constantly evolving, alongside with the new challenges that the Company faces both in business and in people management. An addendum to the Code of Conduct, focused on the prevention and report of Harassment and Abuses, will be shared and applied equally in all Serioplast Plants as short-term next step. Photo by Davide Locatelli, R&D Designer, Global Headquarters Implementation Serioplast has taken the following measures to enhance human right respect: • Leadership and management training courses have been conducted for junior and senior managers in different Countries. The course focused on developing awareness on the topic, specific training on recognizing any human rights violations that may occur either in the office or in production, and how to act immediately and effectively. HUMAN RIGHTS • Over the next years we are planning on implementing systematic human rights training courses for all new managers joining our organization, who in turn can spread their learning to their team. • As shall be better described under the entry “ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES” later, the company Serioplast Global Services S.p.A. has adopted: i) a Model of management and control -by nominating a designated Supervisory Bodyin order to introduce a structured system of prevention, aimed at reducing the risk of committing the violations described in D. Lgs.231/2001; ii) a Code of Ethics, according to the same regulations, meant to define principles of behavior that should inspire all staff. It should be noted that the catalogue of violations described in D. Lgs. 231/2001 is quite expansive and comprehends, among others, violations against the individual, hate crimes (such as racism and xenophobia), felonies related to health and safety in the workplace and environmental crimes. • A Whistleblowing procedure, better described in the Anti-Corruption chapter. Serioplast plant in Dalmine, Italy HUMAN RIGHTS Measurement In the Countries where the risk of a disrespect of human rights is higher, specific additional procedures have been implemented in order to prevent and measure the ongoing of these events. As stated above, the Code of Conduct is the core document on which we rely on to guide all our daily activities. It is binding and non-negotiable for all organizations, entities and people within the Serioplast Group. The document originates from a systematic assessment and collection of the laws and best practices and suggestions from all Countries where we operate which have, thus, been brought together and integrated under a unique document, applicable to the whole Group. Each Plant may have additional specific procedures that are requested by the local context. Serioplast always commits to a fast implementation of all these local procedures. An example of this is the grievance procedure adopted in the Serioplast plant in South Africa, or the policies regarding harassment and discrimination contained in handbooks in the plant in St. Louis, USA. The above-mentioned addendum to the Code of Conduct aims at introducing a clear method of measurement in terms of human right respect and integrity of the workplace. URSA Audits are conducted in Serioplast Plants in order to measure whether the business is conducted lawfully, with integrity and based on freely agreed terms of employment which ensure that all workers are treated equally and with respect and dignity. LABOUR Assessment policy and goals Serioplast respects the four fundamental ILO principles: • Child Labour is refused, as stated by the Code of Conduct and in the procedure “How to Hire staff”. • No Discrimination. “The Company undertakes not to implement any form of direct or indirect discrimination of any kind, in employment relationships, and to promote positive actions for equal opportunities, to ensure and enhance diversity. All recipients, at any level, must cooperate in order to maintain a climate of mutual respect when facing personal differences”, as stated by the Code of Conduct. • Forced, indentured or bonded labour is avoided in all field and in all Countries. • Trade unions are respected, and the right of association is granted. Photo by Michele Piccolo, Plant Engineering Designer, Seriomac Implementation For our people in all our sites we ensure a healthy and safe environment. On a daily basis designated HSE functions take care of monitoring environmental and safety risks and make sure safety standards are complied with. At the same time, all employees attend safety courses, either for general or specific risks, depending on their role, as everybody must play an active role in maintaining high safety standards on the workplace. Fair opportunities of career and salary growth are granted to all employees at all levels. To this purpose, the Group’s annual maxi-processes are the Salary Review, the Performance Review and the Training Request. The Collective bonus system, the calculation of which is based on the industrial and financial results of the plant, is another tool aimed at making employees feel part of a greater picture, where the work of everybody contributes in achieving major results. Welfare and work/life balance initiatives have also been put in place, allowing for employees to enjoy benefits and services that enhance the quality of life. LABOUR Serioplast strongly believes in the importance of constant learning: this commitment led to the birth of the Serioplast School in 2012, an internal academy for high-end technical training. Professional training is encouraged at all levels through the abovementioned Training Request process and Induction sessions are in place to welcome all new staff joining the Group. With reference to training and education, for years we have been cultivating solid bonds with schools and universities, opening our doors to young potential team members, as well as boosting the flow of new ideas through research projects and graduate programs. Serioplast believes that building the teams of today and tomorrow is essential for enhancing the quality of the work we do. Therefore, team-building activities are promoted to International Troubleshooting Workshop stimulate the cooperation among colleagues and sponsored trough corporate channels. Improvements in the sharing of information will take place through the Digital Signage Project, that aims at bringing latest generation monitors in all Serioplast Plants to inform and involve people with the latest updates, spreading the corporate culture, creating a sense of belonging and reducing distances between sites. Measurement Monthly Dashboard reports are produced in order to keep HR and safety data monitored and updated. Specific procedures are in place for reporting and managing injuries and accidents at work, the results of which are monitored by the HR Department in order to constantly reduce their number and gravity. The before mentioned URSA Audits measure whether the work is conducted on a voluntary basis, if all workers have an appropriate age and are paid fair wages, together with verifying whether workers are free to exercise their right to form and/or join trade unions or to refrain from doing so and to bargain collectively. Thanks to these reports, an updated HR Data scenario (number of employees, gender percentages, average age, injuries at work, compensation and benefits updates) is always maintained for Serioplast worldwide. These tools allow for measuring turnover rates (both positive and negative), safety index and gender equity at country level, regional cluster level or at Company level. ENVIRONMENT Assessment policy and goals “We consider the protection of the natural Environment, the prevention of pollution and compliance with environmental laws to be key factors for sustainable development. As such, we seek the full involvement of all company staff with an approach aimed at minimizing our impact and at promoting good business practices which preserve and restore the Environment. “ Photo by Matteo Gherardi, IT System Administrator, Global Headquarters This is an extract of the Serioplast Environmental Policy currently in place, which expresses our corporate commitment to operate in a way which is respectful of the environment. Consistently with all other Group policies, it is a simple and transparent statement, providing our stakeholders with a clear view of our priorities and direction. The policy is publicly accessible from the company’s website, furthermore it is accessible to all employees on the company intranet, as well as displayed in all sites belonging to the Group. In line with the policy statement, since 2017 Serioplast has set up a system to measure and monitor all emissions related to SCOPE 1 and 2, according to the GHG Protocol. Data are consolidated globally in order to track the overall global impact of our business. Data are available also at site/region level and each site bears full responsibility for the Environmental compliance of its operations. According to the Group’s standard Job Descriptions, in fact, the role of local Plant Manager “ensures and is accountable for compliance to all applicable Health, Safety and Environment laws, guarantees the implementation of appropriate procedures and company directives”. In 2018 we have integrated the monitoring system, by implementing a tracking scheme for all our SCOPE 3 emissions. This gives to us the possibility to define our ambitions: our commitment is to reduce our absolute emissions in Scope 1 and 2 by 18% within 2025. By 2025 we also commit to reduce our absolute Scope 3 emissions by 16%. In 2018, we improved our SCOPE 1 and 2 CO2 intensity emissions by 2,9%, while maintaining our overall CO2 emissions constant compared to a growth of our business. Our roadmap to the goal includes projects on energy saving, logistic optimization and collaboration with our Clients for the use of more sustainable materials. Besides our ambitions to reduce our emissions, we strongly believe and promote a more sustainable circular economy for plastic products. We are working to double our capacity to regenerate plastic materials and we are partnering with our Clients to increase the use of post-consumer plastic in new packaging. ENVIRONMENT Implementation Recycling programs In 2018 Serioplast decided to enter the operation of recycling with the acquisition of an industrial recycling facility in Northern Italy (Centro Plastica) with a yearly capacity of 5000 tons. The purpose is to increase the internal use of PCR (Post-Consumer Recycled) material in our packaging production by leveraging on an increase in the material throughput and promoting bottle-to-bottle recycling rather than a down-recycling of rigid plastic products. The project to enhance the recycling plant has started at the end of 2018 and is currently well advanced. The Fair Plastic Alliance In 2018 Serioplast, together with Human Rights NGOs Oxfam, Cesvi and the Nigerian start-up Wecyclers, founded the Fair Plastic Alliance, a multi-stakeholder network seeking to build a circular economy for plastic based on recycling and social inclusion. The Alliance promotes and accompanies the development of inclusive and sustainable initiatives along the whole recycling chain, from waste collection to industrial production of recycled plastic goods, especially in low-income areas and adverse contexts. In order to accomplish systemic change in plastic waste management, the partnership is working with local cooperatives, recycling SMEs and communities on the basis of the Social Business model. The overall objective is to transform the plastic value chain, turning plastic waste into an opportunity for social empowerment and equitable growth. Serioplast’s role in the Alliance is to act as a Technical Partner and advise on the best technical choices in terms of industrial efficiency by leveraging on its experience in the packaging industry. The initiative is currently published on the European Circular Economy Stakeholder Platform. Energy Saving Projects All of our sites are committed to an efficient use of energy. As a group, Serioplast invests in the most efficient systems of Energy generation and consumption. In 2018, 20% of our product portfolio was produced using a high energy-efficient trigeneration system. Environmentally friendly technologies We seek for the best technology to support the transformation of plastic into bottles. Following our track, we plan to save up to 2000 tons of CO2 over the short-medium term. Environmental management system We believe sustainability should not be an exceptional activity, but rather a day-to-day way of working. The Sustainability Committee currently in place is a multidisciplinary team that steers strategy and assesses business performance in terms of sustainability. ENVIRONMENT Measurement KPIs are an essential measure of our success. Each single operation is supported by a monthly tracking of it’s energy efficiency. Project progress is tracked quarterly. A yearly consolidation of data to reassess Scope 1, 2 and 3 against our targets is kept the Serioplast Global Finance department and by 2020 we are planning to have our data officially verified by a third certifying party. 0.50 kgCO2/kg -18% Emissions 2018 Ambition 2025 88 SCOPE 1 + 2 SCOPE 1 + 2 Technical projects currently in our sustainability funnel topics: increase use of PCR; energy saving; 2.09 logistics kgCO2/kg -16% Emissions 2018 Ambition 2025 SCOPE 3 SCOPE 3 Our recycling operation is managed according to an Environmental System compliant with ISO 14000. The System is certified since 2013 and integrated with the Quality Management System ISO 9000. In 2019 our recycling operation achieved the certification EUCertPlast as a guarantee of our efforts in terms of traceability. ANTI-CORRUPTION Assessment policy and goals For the Serioplast Group, credibility and reputation are among the most important assets and fundamental components of the various services offered to their Clients. Considering this, the company Serioplast Global Services S.p.A. has formally adopted a Model of management and control (i.e. “Organizational Model”) and Code of Ethics, according to D.Lgs. 231/2001. With the adoption of the Organizational Model the Company officialized a structured and organic system of prevention, dissuasion and control, aimed at reducing the risk of perpetration of the crimes included in the D. Lgs. 231/2001, by identifying sensitive activities and behavioral principles that should be respected by all employees and collaborators. Instead, with the adoption of a Code of Ethics the Company has dictated behavioral principles that should be respected by social organs, management and collaborators, with the awareness that business Ethics should be pursued alongside economic success. As far as supplier policy is concerned, all purchase offers contain a specific clause stating “The supplier confirms to have read, understood and to accept the Serioplast Code of Conduct as published on the Serioplast website. The supplier also understands and accepts that in case of any violation of the same, Serioplast will proceed to investigate the case reserving every right to initiate any and every legal action deemed necessary to protect its interests.” Implementation With reference to the aforementioned Organizational Model, a Supervisory Body has been nominated – composed of two consultants who do not work for the company – having the task to, among other things: i) collect information flows (every three months and/or per event depending on content) concerning main processes and sensitive company data, also performing sample tests on company documents (audits every trimester); ii) monitor the management systems of safety and environmental measures; iii) verify training and briefing staff activities; iv) monitor possible improvements to the Organizational Model itself. With reference to the aforementioned point iii), in the 2019/2020 two-year period another training session is going to take place. Concerning the abovementioned, to guarantee maximum privacy to the person who exposes (i.e. whistleblower) possible violations of the Organizational Model and Code of Ethics, as well as potential violations of D. Lgs. 231/2001, and in order to streamline the reporting process, the Company has devised a dedicated procedure. ANTI-CORRUPTION According to this procedure, the warning can be issued via mail and/or email; the Supervisory Body is in charge of verifying whether the warning has any merit and, if so, conducting investigations. The company commits to protecting the whistleblower from any form of retaliation or discrimination, direct or indirect, as well as to protecting the identity of the whistleblower in all phases of the procedure. Furthermore, the Company plans to organize training/refresher classes for the staff, either organized by the Serioplast Group and/or third companies. The goal is to ensure that all staff is constantly updated about the latest regulations. CEO signing documents Measurement At the moment, the Company is not performing external audits concerning anti-corruption. However, it points out that its suppliers aligned with what is indicated in the Organizational Model and the Code of Ethics, as adopted by the Company. In any case, we specify that the Serioplast Group has never been involved in any legal, judicial, or any other kind of proceeding referable to a violation of the anti-corruption legislation. The Company plans to organize, with its staff, activities of analysis and auditing, aimed at examining critically decisional procedures and processes. The goal is to improve current policies and guarantee constant respect of current regulations. SERIOPLAST Serioplast Global Services Spa Via Spirano, 528 24059 Urgnano (BG) – Italy www.serioplast.com
