UN GLOBAL COMPACT Communication On Progress (COP) May 2018 – Apr 2019 ue Table 8: Of Contents Hostage/kid Statement 3 Section 1: Human Rights 4 Section 2: Labor 8 Section 3: Environment 13 Section 4: Anti-Corruption 18 About this Report 23 2 Statement Commitment to the UN Global Compact Ecolog International FZE and its subsidiaries (“Ecolog”) reaffirms its support and participation in the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) initiative. Ecolog is committed to responsible, sustainable business practices; while positively contributing to the quality of life of our employees, the communities in which we operate & beyond, and aiming for environmental excellence. Since joining the UNGC initiative in 2018, Ecolog has continued to demonstrate support and make progress on its commitments to key initiatives – with particular focus on labor/environmental standards, ethics and conduct, data protection, reporting / whistleblowing, vendor vetting, anti-bribery, amongst many others. Ecolog is dedicated to providing a safe, secure and ethical working environment with open, honest and transparent communications. Ecolog’s reputation, as a trustworthy provider of services, depends on the integrity and ethics of every one of its employees. To protect the long-term interests of all our stakeholders, at Ecolog we ensure that, we: • Conduct business in an ethical manner, meeting national & international regulations; • Recognize safety, health, & environmental considerations as basic elements of our business strategies; • Value diversity and respect the individuality of each employee and client; and • Contribute to the communities in which we operate. Ecolog remains committed to adhering-to and progressing-on the Global Compact Ten Principles with respect to human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Ecolog’s first Communication on Progress (COP) report (Ecolog_UNGC_COP#1/2019 covering the reporting period: May 1, 2018 – Apr 30, 2019) summarizes initiatives and results of our efforts to support the UNGC principles. Isni Aziri, Managing Director, Ecolog International FZE 3 Section 1: Human Rights Principle 1: businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, Policy & Goals Ecolog has a written policy titled “Code of Business Ethics & Conduct” where the topics of Human Rights are addressed. In this document, Ecolog leadership pledge to implement the principles of ethics within Ecolog and also to take care that Ecolog business partners accept the same values. Ecolog has also implemented a global ethics hotline & web-portal in order to assess and act on any violation from any party. Company policies, regulations, procedures and other guiding principles supporting and stipulating the respect and protection of internationally proclaimed human rights, to ensure non-complicity in human rights abuses, are clearly communicated to employees at all levels of the business, through amongst others, our company induction training program – which is mandatory for all employees. Ecolog is committed to a harassment free work environment. Our zero tolerance towards, workplace harassment, including physical, verbal, sexual or psychological harassment, abuse, or threats are clearly communicated, amongst others, through our induction-training program. All employees are made familiar with the reporting and incident handling procedures and encouraged to report such incidents, free from harassment and confidentially, either through their line of supervision or through our Ethics Hotline & Web-Portal. Reference Company Policies (Human Rights Principles): 1. Competence Training and Awareness Standard Operating Procedures (SOP); 2. Pre-deployment Training Record; 3. Pre-deployment Training Materials: a. Code of Business Ethics & Conduct; b. Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption; c. Combatting Trafficking in Persons; d. Ecolog Ethics Hotline; e. Grievance policy and procedures; f. Performance and Disciplinary Policy and Procedures; g. GDPR Awareness h. Quality & Safety Induction Training Material & Records; i. Prevention of Sexual Prevention and Assault; j. Medical Aid; k. Security – Anti Terrorism and Hostile Environment l. Security Identify and React to Improvised Explosive Devices (IED) ENG m. Health & Safety & Environment Policy Awareness 4 Section 1: Human Rights Implementation – through effective management systems. Prior to commencement of work, all employees are required to attend an induction-training program. The aim of the program is to provide employees with an acceptable level of awareness and competence that will allow them to perform their jobs effectively, safely and ethically. The induction program, delivered partly prior to their deployment and part upon arrival at work location, is executed in accordance with the company Competence Training and Awareness SOP, through an integrated effort by HR, Quality & Safety and the functional departments within which work is performed. The induction program focuses on the creation of awareness and understanding of company policies, standards and guiding principles in support of general business operations regardless of geographical location, and specifically in relation to the respect and protection of human rights, and our commitment to combatting the abuse of human rights. Combatting Trafficking in Persons (CTIPs) The CTIPs policy establishes the responsibilities and implementation process for complying with various laws and regulations related to combating trafficking in persons – e.g. UNODC Model law against trafficking in persons; UN Protocol to prevent, suppress and punish trafficking in persons especially women & children, European Court of Human Rights, Council of Europe Convention against trafficking in human beings, etc. The Ecolog CTIPS policy stipulates that no employee or subcontractor (including subcontract employees) and their agents shall: • Engage in trafficking in persons during the period of performance of the contract • Procure commercial sex acts during the period of performance of the contract • Use forced labor in the performance of the contract • Destroy, conceal, confiscate, or otherwise deny access by an employee to the employee’s identity or immigration documents, such as passports or drivers’ licenses, regardless of issuing authority • Use misleading or fraudulent practices during the recruitment of employees or offering of employment • Use recruiters that do not comply with local labor laws of the country in which the recruiting takes • place i.e. no license to perform recruitment services. • Charge employees’ recruitment fees • Fail to provide return transportation or requiring payment for the cost of return transportation for • certain employees • Provide or arrange housing that fails to meet the host country housing and safety standards • If required by law or contract, fail to provide an employment contract, recruitment agreement, or other required work document in writing. Such written work document shall be in a language the employee understands. 5 Section 1: Human Rights Ecolog’s CTIPs Policy takes into account the universal condemnation of the crime of trafficking in human beings and reiterates that it constitutes a serious abuse of human rights – applying to all Ecolog employees and Ecolog Sub-contractor personnel (zero-tolerance to violations) – with the substance of the below incorporated in the CTIPs Policy: • Establishment of both education and of specific training to be used to raise the awareness of the issues connected  to trafficking in human beings and of the means to combat it – along with an internal reporting mechanism on violations of the policy. • Ecolog will provide all employees training and obtain written acknowledgement from the employee that they understand and abide by the terms of the statement. • Ecolog will take appropriate action, up to and including termination, against employees that violate the CTIPs policies. • Ecolog will include the substance of this clause in all subcontracts. Ecolog and all Subcontractors, at all tiers, are reminded of the prohibition, against knowingly destroying, concealing, removing, confiscating, or possessing any actual or purported passport or other immigration or identification document, of another person to prevent or attempt to restrict, without lawful authority, the person’s liberty to move or travel in order to maintain the labor or services of the person, when the person is or has been a victim of a severe form of trafficking in persons. • Prevent inhumane living • Not withholding employee passports • To supply the employees with signed employee contract copies translated in English and their native language and comply with international laws of the host country • Developing guidelines and procedures for relevant State authorities and officials such as police, border guards, immigration officials and others involved in the detection, detention, reception and processing of irregular migrants, to permit the rapid and accurate identification of trafficked persons. Measurement of Outcome – through effective monitoring & evaluation mechanisms. Ecolog’s HR systems and records are well maintained and keep track of all employment and grievance issues – and actions are taken promptly/appropriately to resolve all issues. Employees receive up-to 4 hours of training specifically addressing policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights upon joining, and an equal amount of hours every subsequent year as these training topics are subject to annual refreshment. The percentage of employees trained upon commencement of work through our deployment centers is 100%, and between 80-90% at any given time with respect to refreshment training on these topics, depending on country of operation. All employees receive medical aid awareness training as part of their induction training focusing also on serious infectious deceases. All security personnel are subject to the same company induction training program as described above. As such, all security personnel are upon employment, made aware of company policies and procedures concerning relevant aspects of human rights. 6 Section 1: Human Rights Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) In addition to the internal initiatives, Ecolog continues to contribute to communities where it operates with local employment, training programs and by supporting a broad variety of local community projects that promote higher economic welfare and standards of living. We support and are involved in community development and charitable organizations, and participate in other volunteer activities. From rebuilding schools that have been damaged in conflict environments to donating waste-management trucks to municipalities, over the years, Ecolog has contributed to the building of thriving communities in the areas in which we serve. We are proud to support peace keeping missions and the work of humanitarian organizations within these regions. CSR Activities undertaken recently: EDUCATION (2018) – Ecolog outfitted a state-of-the-art computer lab on the Bangui University, Central African Republic and is working on a trainee program to create job opportunities for university students. Featuring 17 fully equipped computers, the lab is designed to support 1000+ students & teachers with computer literacy, research skills & increased access to information. (https://ecolog-international.com/ecolog-extends-its-social-responsibility-partnerships-in-central-african-republic/) Ecolog directly employs over 600 people in the region and has local contracts with over 35 local suppliers. The company provides transport and logistics services to peacekeeping missions in the CAR, and aggressively employs a philosophy of local recruitment and enrichment of local communities through educational initiatives and diverse stakeholder partnerships. In addition, Ecolog has been supporting the peacekeeping mission in the CAR since 2014, managing the reliable delivery of food and water to 33 different locations in the country. EDUCATION (2018) Ecolog team in Iraq delivered and installed brand new mobile units that will be used as school facilities for over 100 children in Al Nasr, Iraq (https://ecolog-international.com/ecolog-continuesits-csr-commitment-and-assists-al-nasr-community-iniraq-with-mobile-teaching-facilities/). Ecolog provides transport and logistics services to various companies and peacekeeping missions in Iraq, and continues to aggressively employs a philosophy of local recruitment and enrichment of local communities through educational initiatives and diverse stakeholder partnerships. 7 Section 2: Labor Principle 3: businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect to employment and occupation. Assessment, Policy & Goals Ecolog has well-defined written policies and procedures addressing various aspects of the labor principles (including but not limited to human trafficking, child labor, etc.), These labor principles are further prescribed in our employment contracts which are governed by either the local labor laws of the country of residence and/or the standard set by International Labor Organization (ILO). Ecolog’s commitment to the effective elimination of forced/compulsory labor is amongst others clearly communicated as part of the company induction training to all employee levels through our mandatory Combatting Trafficking in Persons (CTIPS) Policy Awareness Training. Our CTIPs policy and training highlights our zero tolerance towards trafficking in persons and covers all relevant aspects of what trafficking in persons is, how it relates to our operation and their employment, how to combat trafficking in persons and force/compulsory labor, and finally our responsibility to report any suspicions related to trafficking in persons. The latter is further supported by our Ethics Hotline Training enabling employees to confidentially report any such violations. Additionally, all our employees receive upon their employment (and continually thereafter on an annual basis), awareness training on the company grievance policy and procedures, and the company code of conduct which clearly communicates our commitment to equal opportunity for all and a discrimination free workplace; free of discrimination on the basis race, religion, age, gender, etc. Ecolog has also put in place an Equal Employment Opportunities Policy for effective application & monitoring of employment practices. Ecolog ensures its adherence to the highly reputable ILO’s ETI Base Code in line with relevant contractual requirements, and for this purpose has specific clauses in the employment contracts. Equal Opportunities Ecolog is committed to promoting equal opportunities in employment and treating all employees with dignity and respect. All employees and any job applicants will receive equal treatment regardless of age, disability, gender identity, marital or civil partner status, pregnancy or maternity, race (color, nationality, ethnic or national origin), religion or belief, sexual orientation, or any other characteristic protected by law (Protected Characteristics). This policy sets out Ecolog’s approach and intention to equal opportunities, and the avoidance of discrimination at work. It applies to all aspects of employment with Ecolog, including recruitment, pay and conditions, training, appraisals, promotion, conduct at work, disciplinary and grievance procedures, employee benefits, application of policies, termination of employment, and matters after termination including but not limited to visa issues, end of service benefits, and references. 8 Section 2: Labor This policy is intended to help Ecolog achieve its diversity and anti-discrimination aims by clarifying the responsibilities and duties of all the staff in respect of equal opportunities and discrimination; and conforms to the spirit of all applicable statutes, laws & regulations (inclusive of UK Equality Act 2010) under the national law of the country or countries where the performance, in whole or in part, of a contract takes place. Reference Company Policies (Labor Principles): • Competence Training and Awareness Standard Operating Procedures (SOP); • Onboarding Acknowledgement Form; • Pre-deployment Training Materials & Records: • Code of Business Ethics & Conduct; • Ecolog Ethics Hotline; • Equal Opportunities Policy; • Grievance policy and procedures; • Performance and Disciplinary Policy and Procedures; • Quality & Safety Induction Implementation – through effective management systems. Awareness Training or training for employees on labor rights and policies: Prior to commencement of work, all employees are required to attend an induction-training program. The aim of the program is to provide employees with an acceptable level of awareness and competence that will allow them to perform their jobs effectively, safely and ethically. The induction program, delivered partly prior to their deployment and part upon arrival at work location, is executed in accordance with the company Competence Training and Awareness SOP; through integrated effort by HR, Quality & Safety and the functional departments within which work is performed. During the company induction training, employees are made familiar with all aspects of their job within the company to include their rights, what is expected of them in terms of both conduct and work performance, and associated policies and procedures. Our HR Department ensures that; employees are made aware of their rights, benefit entitlements, and associated employee policies. While, the functional department(s) take care for their onboarding on the job; covering job related rights and expectations such as standards of performance, work location specific rules and policies, emergency response and procedures, etc. Our quality and safety department; supplements these trainings with specific quality and safety training, both as part of their induction, and also on-the-job to enforce quality and safety regulations and procedures. 9 Section 2: Labor Support vocational training and counseling programs: Ecolog recognizes the essential importance of people and competency for the delivery of quality services, thus remains fully committed towards implementing and ensuring training and development opportunities at all levels and to include specifically local staff; allowing personnel to pursue and achieve excellence within their individual job roles and advance to higher levels of understanding and responsibility. To reach these objectives, the company utilizes existing recognized vocational and educational networks, where applicable and available. This, in addition to, in-house training activities and programs run at various levels and locations. Our Supervisor Trainee Programs are an example of this. Reporting Violations: Ecolog has defined procedures for reporting of any violations, discrimination or inappropriate conduct – to the employee’s line management and/or to HR, and proper investigation is conducted accordingly. Ecolog does not allow for any retaliation against an employee for reporting misconduct in good faith. All employees must cooperate in internal investigations of potential or alleged misconduct. A grievance procedure is in place for employees to use for reporting cases. Health & Safety Ecolog has developed at the corporate level an Enterprise Risk Management policy that provides the policy framework for our Health and Safety program. Underpinning this, is the company’s certified OHSA 18001 management system that provides the procedures of managing health and safety at the operational levels. Management commitment for health and safety is owned at the very highest level of Ecolog, and we also expect all our employees to take ownership in performing their tasks safely too. Ecolog communicates with and allows participation with employees on health and safety matters through meetings, inspections, conducting risk reviews, and feedback to understand their challenges on the job. At the operational level, and as cascaded down, Ecolog through the safety management system ensures activities at the deepest level are reviewed for hazards and their associated risks. By structuring our health and safety program in a such a way; we ensure that every task undertaken, where there is a significant hazard to health and injury that cannot be practicable reduced, has the appropriate measures assessed and put in place. This takes the form of risk assessments, accompanied with awareness trainings, and the appropriate compliant PPE, where applicable. Our commitment to health and wellbeing is also reinforced through medical surveillance checks for all employees, to ensure that they retain health and wellbeing through their employment with Ecolog. 10 Section 2: Labor Personal Data Protection & Privacy At Ecolog, we ensure that the impact and implications of the EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) introduced on 25th May 2018, are incorporated in our business processes to confirm that we are fully compliant with the new rules. We continue to be committed to the protection of all personal data relating to clients and employees while ensuring that the company’s policy is, that as far as is consistent with local regulations, the principles of GDPR will also guide our policies outside Europe. Ecolog is using GDPR as an opportunity to review the way we collect, store, process and safeguard personal data. The necessary extra new policies and tools are being introduced in the company to ensure that all data is stored and used in accordance with the GDPR’s new privacy, transparency and individuals’ rights provisions – while also ensuring that we are communicating with our clients and contacts in a way that complies with the new rules. In this regard, the company has put in place its Data Privacy Policy, Privacy Notices, Cookies Policy, DPO appointments, and other relevant procedures/ processes. Ecolog’s Information Security Policy, currently provides the mechanism to protect against information security threats and ensures that information is protected against unauthorized access, data confidentiality assured, data integrity maintained, and that regulatory requirements regarding Data Protection, Intellectual Property Rights, and Privacy of Personal Information are met. Measurement of Outcome – through effective monitoring & evaluation mechanisms. Ecolog’s HR systems and records are well maintained and keep track of all employment and grievance issues – and actions are taken promptly/appropriately to resolve all issues. Demographics of management and employees: There are about 57+ nationalities working with Ecolog amongst a total strength of 7,000+ employees. Employees receive up-to 4 hours of mandatory training specifically addressing policies and procedures concerning aspects of human & labor rights upon joining, and equal amount of hours every subsequent year, as these training topics are subject to annual refreshment. • The percentage of employees trained upon commencement of work through our deployment centers is 100% and between 80-90% at any given time, with respect to refreshment training on these topics depending on country of operation. 11 Section 2: Labor Occupational Health and Safety Ecolog’s ongoing mission to stand out in its commitment to occupational health and safety was again recognized by receiving a second consecutive Gold Award at the RoSPA Occupational Health and Safety Awards in England, UK. The internationally renowned Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents (RoSPA) Health and Safety Awards UK, recognizes practices and achievements in safe working practices. The award reinforces Ecolog’s pledge to foster a safe working environment and reduce workplace accidents. As this was only Ecolog’s second year of entering the RoSPA awards, it is a huge compliment to everyone in Ecolog to achieve yet another Gold Award a testament to the hard work and dedication of our people, while operating in what are very challenging locations around the world. 12 Section 3: Environment Principle 7: businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, Policy & Goals Reaching environmental excellence is one of the main business objectives of Ecolog – dedicating significant efforts and resources to address key sustainability-related issues, from recycling, waste prevention, conservation of natural environments to energy efficiencies, and emission reduction. Ecolog’s commitment is reflected in our Environmental Policy. Other key principles that guide our effort towards environmental excellence are also aligned with our contracts with international organizations, businesses & NGOs, whom all have various levels of environmental practices that Ecolog follows. Our clients and their guidelines include: Contaminated Land (EHS) Guidance, World Bank / IFC EPA/540/F-95/041 – Soil Screening Guidance, US EPA GPLC 1-3 – Contaminated Land Assessment, Environment Agency NATO Standard AJEPP-6 (Edition A Version 1, November 2014) Environmental Baseline Studies Science report: SC050021/SGV – Using Soil Guideline Values – Environment Agency CLEA model and softwareEnvironment Agency Hydrogeological Risk Assessment for Land Contamination – Environment Agency STANAG 7141 Joint NATO Doctrine for Environmental Protection During NATO-led Military Activities (AJEPP-4) STANAG 2510 Joint NATO Waste Management Requirements During NATO-led Military Activities (AJEPP-5) STANAG 2583 Environmental Management System in NATO Operations (AJEPP-3) UK MOD Global Food Contract Marine Stewardship Council LEAF (Linking Environment and Farming) Global Good Agricultural Practices (GAP) Ecolog has established a Vision 2020 strategy where we strive for zero intentional environmental releases and spills. An example of our partnerships with industry is linked with the UK MOD contract, that utilizes efficient commercial sea routes that operate 40’ containers rather than the Militaries normal shipping route where only 20’ can be used. This initiative aims to reduce Carbon emissions by 10% by 2020. We intend to realize this by employing local companies with existing infrastructure and supply chains to fulfill deliveries to smaller locations. Our procurement teams source where possible local products to reduce food carbon foot print. 13 Section 3: Environment Our UK Teaming Partner have put in place initiatives to mitigate environmental impact. In order to reduce the pollution and greenhouse gases produced by their fleet, they have committed to only purchasing vehicles that conform to the latest European emission standards. Our partner has also begun reducing food miles by using driver performance software to identifying ever more fuel-efficient. This has resulted in a reduced our CO2 eq. emissions in the UK by 32% relative to 2006. Ecolog is also committed to minimizing negative impacts to the local biodiversity and ecosystems that we operate in; that includes carefully studying of the potential impacts & aspects, and putting in place appropriate mitigation plans. Environmental Policy Ecolog may only conduct its business when all associated environmental impacts and risks are understood and controlled to acceptable levels. Ecolog acknowledges that the principles of sustainable development are integral to responsible resource management that overlie all our activities, products and services. Therefore, Ecolog will strive to minimize impacts on the physical environment and avoid negative social impacts. Ecolog’s commitment to the Environment and its implementation of the Environmental Management System (EMS) will ensure: • Appropriate activities conducted by Ecolog are aligned to the EMS; • Achievable environmental objectives and targets are established; • A commitment to protecting the environment and the prevention of pollution; • Strong assurance in achieving compliance obligations; • Create a culture of continual improvements within the EMS for our environmental performance; • Comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations, and where adequate laws do not exist, adopt and apply standards that reflect Ecolog commitment to a balanced environment. Implementation – through effective management systems. Ecolog has an established Environmental Management System (EMS) that has been certified to ISO 14001:2015 since 2016. We are also liable to our contract holders’ audits, that occur on yearly basis, and verify our own internal processes and system for compliance to environmental requirements. We conduct internal Environmental audits, every quarter, to ensure our operations comply to the applicable statutory and contractual requirements. These audits are consolidated via our tracking system, on SharePoint, and communicated to the management teams for further review and discussion at management board level. Each location has an impact and aspects study conducted, to ascertain the overall environmental impact our operations have on the environment. 14 Section 3: Environment Ecolog is a world class provider of comprehensive trash removal, recycling, and environmentally safe waste management solutions. It has developed a range of fully integrated waste management systems that are implemented through the collection, disposal, and recycling of discarded hazardous and non‐hazardous materials in a manner that is safe, efficient, and fully compliant to the strictest environmental regulations; and has access to a network of waste transfer and recycling centers and a regional network of landfill sites. Ecolog has implemented environmental trainings across all our operations that starts from our initial induction on joining the company to the ongoing site trainings and task specific activities. Ecolog also encourage employees to seek further knowledge and learning through industry events and incidents to bring further knowledge to the business. Promoting Environmental Friendly Technologies: Hybrid Power (PV) Project. Ecolog has entered into partnerships with highly innovative providers of Environmental Friendly Technologies, in particular, in respect to generation of electrical power and climate control, as both vital life support elements in a remote camp can contribute massively to reduction of environmental footprint, when managed with the appropriate technology. Thanks to these industry partnerships, Ecolog has been able to create the capacity to apply, distribute and manage Environmental Friendly Technologies at a major peacekeeping site in Africa. Ecolog provides full camp energy management; and through application of Environmental Friendly Technologies, and the employment of ISO 50001 certified Energy Management Specialists; provides substantial reduction in energy consumption one of the main goals in the Environmental Protection Program of our key client(s). Ecolog is providing Energy audits to the authority on regular basis, and within these audits recommendations for energy saving measures are formulated, steering the client to utilize these technologies. Ecolog has embarked on supporting sustainable energy in its products & services by offering renewable Photovoltaic (PV) Solar power options for its remote location (off grid) installations. Solar power represents the greatest opportunity for cost-effective, clean, renewable energy in many global locations. It also helps combat greenhouse gas emissions and reduces collective dependence on fossil fuels. When fossil fuels are burned to create energy, they emit gases such as CO2, which is the primary cause of pollution and global warming. For every ton of CO2 reduction from not burning fuel saves an equivalent of 0.5 hectares of forests annually*. Fuel Consumption (litres) CO2 (tons) Forest (Hectare) 380 1 26 * https://www.epa.gov/energy/greenhouse-gas-equivalencies-calculator 15 Section 3: Environment Ecolog’s hybrid power projects for remote locations include a number of design factors: Mobile Generators combined with High Efficiency Photo-Voltaic cells; Integrated management of power input and load; Savings of up to 30% in fuel consumption and generator maintenance costs; Low investment and maintenance costs for the PV installation; Scalable Power Solution; Fast Installation for PV, floor mounted or on facility roof-tops; Proven application in remote locations. An example of Ecolog’s implementation of a PV Solar Hybrid Power and Climate Control solution, in a remote location in Africa, includes the reduction of energy consumption/dependency on fossil fuels through application of smart power and climate controls: (a) Fully integrated PV-Diesel Hybrid Power Plant, connected through a dedicated integration system. (b) Accommodation blocks equipped with central climate control systems replacing the conventional single or split AC units. The central AC system allows optimization of temperature/humidity/air quality in all rooms, and provides a massive energy saving, coupled to solar power heat exchange unit for humidity control. All climate control units are monitored on site and remotely. Ecolog is currently developing, in conjunction with its industry partners, new Climate Control solutions for Remote Camps, in order to replace conventional Air Conditioning systems, which represent a large environmental impact due to extremely high energy consumption and use conventional coolants. These new Climate control units reduce power consumption by 40% and comply with future legislation on environmental friendly coolants. Promoting Environmental Responsibility: SMART CAMPS As part of its services, Ecolog provides camp construction and management solutions in challenging regions, such as crisis zones and extremely remote locations, with no access to normal housing, utilities and waste treatment services. In the past, these camps utilized conventional technologies for the construction of accommodation, provision of power, climate control and water treatment, generating a substantial environmental footprint and limited concern about environmental impact in these remote locations. Ecolog’s Business and Product Development teams have drastically changed the approach to camp facilities and ECOLOG SMART CAMPS concept has been presented to the clientele during 2018. This overall concept aims to drastically reduce the environmental impact of lodging peacekeepers or specialized workforce in remote locations by promoting the use of technologies/innovations that reduce the use of fossil fuels, the overall consumption of electricity and better treatment of water and waste. Whenever Ecolog is in communication with its current and potential clients, the SMART CAMPS concept is highlighted as the desired approach to facilitate sustainable, environmental friendly solutions even in areas where there is currently limited promotion for Environmental responsibility. Main initiative in this respect is the creation and distribution of Ecolog’s SMART CAMP brochure, highlighting the necessity to develop Environmental responsibility through implementation of alternative technologies replacing conventional approach to remote accommodation, power and utilities. 16 Section 3: Environment Measurement of Outcome – through effective monitoring & evaluation mechanisms. • Ecolog has achieved compliance to the ISO 14001:2015 Standard since its original certification in 2016 by QMSI (Quality Management Systems International) certifying that the Ecolog management system is in accordance with requirements of: ISO 14001: 2015 for the following scope (Facility Management; Supply Chain; and Environmental Services). • As part of Ecolog’s Supplier Sustainability Program, we work with many suppliers and service providers and rely heavily on them to deliver the requirements we set with our clients. We conduct background checks on all our suppliers to ensure no risk are associated with their previous activities, in terms of environmental breaches – providing us reassurance that we are working with ethical companies. • We continually invest in new technology to monitor hazardous and nonhazardous waste generation in our operations, either major or minor emissions. • In Middle East, we processed over 12,500m3 of hydrocarbon contaminated solids for our client(s) utilizing efficient technology combining centrifuge and thermal desorption. The treatment standards for the output soil was: Total Hydrocarbons at <0.5 ppm as per TCLP method and Volatile Organic Compounds at <0.1 ppm and the measurements were carried out in accordance with United States Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) 40 Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) Part 60 Appendix A test methods. Achieving such standards allowed the reuse of solids, as fill material, in the nearby port upgrade & reduction of hazardous landfill disposal of over 90% for total facility output. • Ecolog has never received any environmental citation or penalty in any of our operations which is testament to our ongoing monitoring and commitment towards environmental practices. 17 Section 4: Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, Policy & Goals Ecolog endeavors to fully comply with all laws, rules and regulations applicable to its business and in the countries in which it operates – and in this regard, Ecolog supports the UNGC principle on anti-corruption having a zero tolerance policy for corruption in all its forms, including bribery and extortion. Ecolog aims to act in accordance with the anti-corruption laws which prohibit improper payments, specifically with respect to anti-corruption laws inclusive of UK’s Bribery Act, US’s Foreign Corrupt Practices Law and any individual anti-bribery law of the country in which it operates: • Ecolog acknowledges that it is illegal to give, pay, promise, offer, or authorize the payment of anything of value, either directly or indirectly through a third party, to an official of a government or a representative of a commercial entity to obtain or retain business, or to secure any improper advantage, for Ecolog or one of its affiliates. • Ecolog has a zero-tolerance policy towards its directors, officers, employees, and third parties acting on its behalf from offering or paying, directly or indirectly, any bribe to any employee, official, or agent of any government, commercial entity, or individual in connection with its business or activities – enforced with an immediate and strict disciplinary procedure. Since Ecolog has ongoing business with many governments, public and private entities, and regularly has legitimate business interactions with government officials and company representatives, Ecolog provides thorough training and guidance to its employees using the following resources at the time of induction, operations and pre-deployment: • code of business conduct and ethics; • global hotline available 24/7 which provides the reporter with anonymity in ‘whistle-blowing’; and • detailed training on anti-bribery & anti-corruption. Ecolog ensures adherence to the UN Supplier Code of Conduct in all of its UN-related contracts. Code of Business Ethics & Conduct Ecolog’s Code of Business Ethics & Conduct (the “Code”) highlights our business conduct policies, guides us in how to deal with ethical/compliance issues, and explains where we can get help when we have questions or concerns. The Code (and our core values) guide us in delivering mission critical solutions to our clients around the world while doing it the right way. Each employee has the responsibility to comply with the code and to comply with the company’s policies & procedures, and the laws & regulations in whichever country they operate. We expect business partners and third parties; such as suppliers, agents, representatives, contractors, subcontractors, and consultants, who serve as an extension of Ecolog to conduct themselves according to our values and our Code. 18 Section 4: Anti-Corruption Implementation – through effective management systems. • Ecolog maintains signatory engagement with the UN Global Compact since May 9, 2018 (a voluntary initiative). https://www.unglobalcompact.org/what-is-gc/participants/132547-Ecolog-International. • Ecolog’s Code of Business Ethics & Conduct is posted on the company’s portal and is familiarized to new joiners as part of their orientation sessions through a formal training program. (https://secure.ethicspoint.eu/domain/ media/en/gui/104564/code.pdf). Ecolog is currently revamping its Code of Conduct to align with evolving business needs / expectations (Living Code program, 2019-20). • “TRACE has completed a TRACEcertification due diligence review of Ecolog International FZE. Certification by TRACE signifies that Ecolog International FZE has completed internationally accepted due diligence procedures and has been forthcoming and cooperative during the review process. TRACEcertification underscores Ecolog International FZE ‹s commitment to transparency in international commercial transactions.” Review our full TRACE Certified due diligence report at https://tpms.traceinternational.org/IntermediaryDirectory by searching for [Ecolog International FZE]. Ecolog Compliance Framework Ecolog is committed to ethical business practices and to obeying both the spirit and letter of the law in every country in which it does business. Ecolog takes its legal and organizational responsibilities to prevent regulatory non-compliances seriously and expects all its employees/entities to do the same. • Ecolog has a designated Chief Compliance Officer (“CCO”) to implement a well governed and compliant culture (in adherence with all local, national & international laws / regulations) – while: • benchmarking with global compliance standards and regulatory guidelines; • focusing on ‘prevention, detection & response (remediation)’ compliance protocols; • leading and interfacing with management/regulators/clients to address potential areas of regulatory and global business compliance vulnerabilities / risks. • adequately resourcing the compliance function to ensure success of deliverables, maintaining the required skills and competencies. 19 Section 4: Anti-Corruption Ecolog Compliance Framework: Designed & benchmarked with global compliance standards & guidelines: • Written standards of business conduct and compliance policies & procedures. • Top level visible commitment: Designation of a Chief Compliance Officer (high-level person) with adequate resources & authority; and institution of a governing oversight body. • Effective compliance awareness, training, education & communication. • Audits, Monitoring and Evaluation techniques to provide independent & objective assurance to Board / others (including external stakeholders). • Establishment of reporting processes and procedures for compliance complaints. • Appropriate Enforcement, Disciplinary & Incentive mechanisms. • Investigation and remediation of systemic problems (response & prevention). Office of Ethics Standards of & Compliance Conduct, Policies & Procedures EMPLOYEES Compliance Practices, Vendors’ & Personnel Screening & Vetting Standards & Technology Monitoring, Testing & Oversight, Reporting Due Diligence of Business Evaluation CCO, Reporting, & & Leadership Partners & Intermediaries Board / Shareholder Oversight Body SUPPLY Business / Contracts Ecolog CHAIN Mgmt. Compliance Compliance Code of Business Conduct & Framework Ethics / Integrity Hotline Anti-Bribery & Anti-Corruption Compliance Program Corporate Governance, Lines of Defense Model, & Internal Data Protection & Privacy Education, Awareness Issues Mgmt. – Control Framework & Communication Response & Prevention Compliance Program Sanctions & Regulatory Compliance Monitor REGULATORS Benchmarks: US Federal Sentencing Guidelines Enforcement, Risk Assessments & Society of Corporate Compliance & Ethics, USA OECD, EU & UN Regulatory Guidelines Discipline & Incentives Assurance Reviews COSO Internal Control Framework + IIA Standards 20 Section 4: Anti-Corruption Internal Controls Ecolog has adopted and continues to implement good internal controls, systems & processes, to integrate its anti-corruption principles and compliance philosophies with day-to-day business activities: • SAP software (ERP system) with defined segregation of duties & multiple approval layers for key processes. • Procurement and Expenses: All purchases and expenses are undertaken using the Procure-to-pay process, embedded in SAP through approved purchase orders and/or contracts (as per defined level of authority). Further, detailed ‘Travel and Expenses Reimbursement’ policy and SOP is also in place. • Ecolog ensures that the necessary anti-corruption provisions are enshrined in all its contractual agreements with all of its stakeholders including but not limited to: client contracts; goods and/or services with subcontractors and/or consultants; and employment contracts. • Vendor Selection: Ecolog uses reputable third party databases and applies online PEP/DP screening processes, prior to establishing any contractual and business relationships with its business partners. • Payments: Adequate internal controls are in place to process the payments / funds transfer i.e. three-way matching, approval authorities, segregation of duties, etc. Appropriate processes are in place and improvements being made for review, approval & reconciliation of cash payments & expenses. • Personnel Screening: Ecolog implements personnel background screening procedures for new hires and employs a reputable third-party service provider to screen all senior appointments & hires. 21 Section 4: Anti-Corruption Measurement of Outcome – through effective monitoring & evaluation mechanisms. Ecolog has setup a “Global Ethics & Integrity Hotline” in 2018-19 where employees can report ethical issues by telephone or web-portal. (https://secure.ethicspoint.eu/domain/media/en/gui/104564/index.html). No major reporting noted during the period. Global Ethics & Integrity Hotline Ecolog is committed to an environment where open, honest communications are the expectation, not the exception. Employees can feel comfortable in approaching their supervisor or management in instances where they believe violations of policies or standards have occurred. In situations where employees prefer to place an anonymous report in confidence, they are encouraged to use the multilingual Global Ethics Hotline (toll-free), hosted by a third party hotline provider, available 24/7 (across 17 countries) and through an online reporting system accessible to everyone (company website / portal). 12 9 4 15 10 16 8 3 11 7 1 13 16 5 2 17 14 6 Ecolog adopts a non-retaliation policy to protect employees who report misconduct in good faith – the company will suitably conduct an investigation in compliance with applicable laws – taking appropriate corrective actions for proven compliance / code violations. • Quarterly Compliance Updates were provided to Management Board, and 40+ management team members underwent online anti-bribery training with an international service provider in 2018. • On annual basis; internal controls, transactions & underlying supporting documents are reviewed and assessed by our external auditors (a reputable big 4 audit firm); from the perspective of anti-bribery & anti-corruption compliance – inclusive of other regular audit procedures. 22 About this Report About this Report Since 2018, Ecolog International FZE has been committed to the UN Global Compact corporate responsibility initiative and its principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. This COP Report (Ecolog_UNGC_COP#1/2019, 2018–2019) delivers relevant highlights of initiatives, activities and progress that ECOLOG is undertaking on a global basis to address UNGC principles on human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. The report covers the period between May 1, 2018 and April 30, 2019. For all enquiries related to this report, please contact Mr. Aley Raza, Chief Compliance Officer (Aley.Raza@ecolog-international.com), Ecolog International FZE. This report will be published on the UN Global Compact website and the ECOLOG website. Ecolog is a leading provider of supply chain, construction, technology, facility management and environmental services. We provide turnkey and customized solutions to governments and defense, humanitarian organizations and commercial clients in the sectors of Oil & Gas, Mining, Energy and Infrastructure projects. Headquartered in Dubai (UAE) and incorporated almost two decades ago, Ecolog has carried out over 1,100 projects and is now active in more than 36 countries – providing mission critical support services in a wide range of environments, including some of the world’s most remote and challenging locations. For more details about ECOLOG, visit https://ecolog-international.com/ . 23 www.ecolog-international.com
