Communication on Progress 201 8 LrN Global Compact 'w COMMUÑITATIÔN ÔN This is our Communication on Progress in implementing the principles ofthe UDited Nations Clobal Compact and suppolting broader UN goa¡s. We welcome feedback on its contents. PROGRESS Agility Defense ú Government Services Asitit'?' Defense ¿r Government Serv¡ces March 28,2A19 H.E. Ban Ki-moon Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 Dear Mr. Secretary-General, I am writing to inform you that Agility Defense & Governmenf Services reaffirms its support of the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. With this annual communication, we describe our efforts to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. Agitity Defense & Governmenf Servíces will make a clear statement of this commitment io our stakeholders and the general public. We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company's efforts to implement the ten principles. We support public accountabilily and transparency, and therefore commil to report on progress within one year of joining the Global Compact, and annually thereafter according to the Global Compact COP policy. Sincerely yours, Mo President & CEO Agility Defense & Government Services AgilitY'#' DeJense Cl Çovern,nent Servlces As a business that is active in many diverse communities, we invest to have a positive social impact in every community we touch by improving education and employment oppoûunities. Our Vision, Mission, & Core Values Vision To be a new type of logistics leader meeting the challenges of global trade Mission To facilitate trade through innovative supply chain solutions Values ü Íntegrity Personal Ownership Building trust with customers, communities, Taking personal responsibility for the suppliers and one another by doing what is right, outcome of our actions by acting safely and working safely, keeping our promises, being a good anticipating needs, being resourceful and citizen, complying with regulations and laws, and following through until the job is done. honoring rules of engagement. îgr Excellence Teamwork Building a culture based on excellence in thought Working across organization and cultural and in execution to better serve customers. bou ndaries to ach ieve extraordina ry performance Demonstrating excellence in safetyto protect our and deliver personal service to customers. staff and the communities we serve. \<AgititY.'# DeJense ¿r Government Serv¡ces Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses assessment, policy, and goals At Agility, we are committed to providing an environment where employee rights are both respected and prolected. The high standards for fair labor practices set out in our , : i apply equally to all Agility employees in every counlry in which we operale. By doing business with integrity responsibly, fairly, and accountably, in a way that respects the dignity of everyone we work with we strengthen the bond of trust that we have worked so hard to develop with employees, customers, partners, communities and shareholders. Agility is in the continuing process of globally rolling out its fair labor program. For the last several years, the fair labor program has been focused on tackling forced labor issues like passport relention and recruitment fees in the Middle East, which we idenlified as the highest risk region in our network due to the large numbers of migrant workers employed by Agility in this part of the world. With significant progress having now been made however, Agility is expanding the program to Asia and Africa. For the most part, Agility is comprised of professional freight fonrarding staff working in offices. However, in some parts of the world, we have an extensive operational footprint and employ drivers and warehousemen who could face fair labor issues because of weak regulations, language issues, or lack of awareness of company standards. Agility seeks to prevent human rights issues by setting high standards, training employees at all levels, providing anonymous grievance mechanisms, and auditing for compliance. Agility's Approach to Human Rights lssues Our starting point in our Fair Labor and Human Rights program is to create a common culture around labor issues in our geographically and socially diverse company. More than a decade ago, Agility began taking aggressive steps to protect the rights of drivers, warehouse employees and other workers who migrated in order to get jobs. We follow a six'pronged strategies towards creating a shared understanding of how to manage {hese challenging issues: 1. Direction Starts from the Top Agility's CEO is the executive sponsor of the fair labor task force at Agility, which is comprised of the Chief People Officer, the company's General Counsel, and the head of Corporate Responsibility. The task force is responsible for setting the standards around human rights that are enshrined in the Business Code of Conduct, for monitoring the global roll-out of the program, and for resolving issues as they arise. Starting in 2016, the task-force will produce a report every six months, to map progress and highlight concerns for senior management. 2. Senior Management Buy-in ln our experience, a criiical part of creating a shared culture is engaging senior management, at the regional board level. Fair labor is now part of the management agenda in the Middle East, Asia and Africa the three regions of focus due to the large numbers of operational staff (mostly drivers and warehousemen) and the relatively weaker regulatory structure in those regions. <.\#' AgititY Defense ¿t Government Services 3. Raise Awareness through Engagement A critical step is to engage counlry management and HR leaders in a self-assessment to understand their perceptions of possible fair labor risks in their areas of responsibility. Agility's CSR team offers structure and guidance in the form of detailed questionnaires that ask probing questions on known industry-wide risk areas for certain countries or regions. These questionnaires are used on their own in our training and audit program, bul they are also incorporated into Agility's broader Global Quality Management program, and our Operational SelfAssessment Program where local offices audit their own quality, health and safety performance, including issues related to our Fair Labor and Human Rights policies. 4. Training and Dialogue The most importanl step in operationalizing the fair labor and human rights program is to roll out on-lheground training and feedback sessions. A certified human rights trainer and auditor who is parl of the CSR team travels to each country to meet with country management, HR, operations supervisors, and employees. Each group is taken through the core fair labor training, with a slightly different emphasis based on their accountabilities. Each group also has the opportunity to provide feedback afterthe training session, in an open and confidential discussion. 5. Self-reflection and action Aftet the training sessions, the CSR team creates a detailed report for each country that goes to regional, country, and HR management that lays out key findings and recommendations. This report offers a third party look at the risks and challenges the country management may (or may not) have identified during their self-completed risk assessments. lt also offers employees a safe way to voice concerns and management a valuable understanding of employee perceptions. Country management is then given a period of time, usually between 3-6 months to take aciion on areas of concern. During this phase we have seen some countries change or upgrade accommodation facilities, establish worker discussion committees, and take other voluntary measures to improve working conditions. 6. Audits and Gompliance The last phase is for CSR to conduct a full labor audit. This is a formal ptocess that follows a transparent structure. Countries are audited across several areas including: percentage of workers that have completed fair labor training, workplace and worker accommodation health and safety conditions, and compliance with Agility fair labor policies and procedures. The audits involve a mixture of random worker interviews, site visits, and review of documentation. Following the audit, countries are given a list of mandatory recommendation io implement in orderlo be compliant, as well as suggestions for improvement. Agitity \#' Deþnse dr çovernntent Serv¡ces Agility has taken a leadership role on the issue when it works with multinationals and government organizations in the Middle East. -i Ag í I ity rig o rou sly enforces Working with Human Rights Watch, Agility learned how to engage the fair labor policy with engineering and construction companies in ways that prevent labor comprehensive mon itoring issues. The approach involves setting expectations upfront, writing and audíts conducted by third contracts more carefully to demand fair labor standards, and parties. insisting that subcontractors open up for audits. Agility also has L I worked on fair labor with the World Economic Forum and Business for Social Responsibility, which has given Agility a platform to talk about the importance of the issue with others in the logistics industry. Key Outcomes of the Fair Labor and Human Ríghts Program QalÍne human Mfddle East Asia Ærko rþhß koinhg ,{tt: a!}'.<1t ,tlx,tr1ttt r,:t\ 0..í\} irt i:ìrt.? lt.tt t,rrçt.til't ialif! tr::t tr) ['trqtñr] Tli?{l utt :¡¡ ?{,il $ l*r i|;t !a:1a tir' r'.)t::\ t,: ílt¿'l:litkllt iatt )/t ) t {ç Totl ítlttr' t4 Å,iít. Ììt1l ttít:* k: Á13-..). \ l/i i)t,? t'l:tt:l 5, I A A 735 30t 2,556 |Vi|rk.:!it, lti ¿¡, ti:.k t:a::*:lrct rt1:/.' 4 t1|!:ltTi as a t i: i,)t!,!, r. t).arla tt.1í\'!1 ¿i pr'¡* t:: 2i)'t 5 ¡ztttr|t î tr,, r 2 ' t.:1:.:t\,'i'{t îtrt lttbtt 1 !.}î1J¡1ti -.c -tirtì,tþ){ç ,ttt} þt*l*yrn itt :,Iúrc ihsn Siiiií Jl ttr:jkiô:{4i. Ç1 li /: ta i, u | | tat | ì | ìqtl t I ., .., . ¡, ,i \J' :'.;, ! i',; : J. :tit 5. lytiat!r.;. Ti:a' t.'.ttt \r i>,:,:r,,.,.:; I i d r: t.l' r k !'{*} il, } I L, Jt ¡. t I 7 ;.tíl : \/t* Itift€fi1 ü/.:d,t. ,]öd Jilt: a!1irú i: :.titn¿:il ç¡ t,tnt){itl?t 5 ¡1,(tltic. il.tlttr;!t. a;t:.' I ttt4*eï. ii r: j.¡ ¡f ,':\r; ii1 ! t{. \ t l;t ri t .i rat lt aln ú !. i ãl í ft K,?{)t !1 t v,u il jTì..j i n ? 1)'. ¿l a; ti :? ¡ )îl í i¡ !úic. t1tíi¡qltu. ,, 1,ì¡ < ryl,itkiat:s. 7) IJ ttttrJt'.2{!':5:}, l7;,7 t, 1it;iwei' trr.l kt;|ü ii*stç. l>1çt.¡t:tlt it:!l:, aui írtii! lrrir'liv .íii: !çb.)T 2*{i)î\ rüva bt,t::;*t¡:Jt¿t:¿d ¡. /.'.:aa;3 tt::;ialì it l,) I ó. litt \:. Atr!.¡¿i. {e5'. .!}tt}a:tts. <.! f ttii li /,J Jt:.t irl' t ttev r, ir¡ t: I tJtt,:l I f Ðt a. / t :,ta *,1 li pa/ lli ri ?t! aly tl:,,r1:zslìi.tttrt it:ly | ¿gt *ti,t tii:í .. ..:.¿:.: l.¡... ., .-t:..r. t]. _1,.y ,. : :c: :tii:xi :t-,t:it:t ur.itt-Í-:i¡tìtI tlvit t.l i, . ,.., i f .! ..,, :. ,¡ :,.!-.',.. , ¡. '., tir:P'; 'À\-'tt, t ,.:.:,: \; ttì:Lt 'r.ll 2i)i ì> urltjftt;. Labor Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment, occupation assessment, policy, and goals Agility employees are at the heart of the company's success. Our people define our character, deliver our performance, and possess the specialized knowledge that differentiates us â company. We owe them our thanks for their commitment, hard work, and dedication to going above and beyond for our customers and our communities. As¡fiü'4' Defense ët Government Services Agility employs more than 22,AA0 people around the world, the majority working for our core commercial logistics business in emerging markels. Job crealion and professional growth are development priorities in emerging markets, and we take our responsibility as a leading employer seriously. We strive to provide a safe environment, meaningful work, competitive wages, and development and growth prospects for our employees. Our commitment to our employees is clearly stated in our Code of Business Ethics and Conduct, as is our promise of providing an environment where our employees' rights are both respected and protected. Agilíty's Code of Conduct Makes the Following Commitments in Regards to Labor Ríghts: a Safe and healthy workplace: Create a safe, healthy, and productive workplace, which minimizes the risk of preventable accidents, injury and exposure to health risks. ln cases where in which Agility provides residential facilities, we ensure that these facilities also provide their inhabitants with a safe and healthy living arrangement. a No discrimination: ln interviewing, selection, hiring, promotion, training, transfer, supervisíon, termination, layoff, compensation, benefits, and ed ucation opportu n ities. a No harassment: Creating an environment free from harassment based upon race, color, religion, sex, age, national origin, physical or mental disability, sexual orientation, or marital status. a No forced labor: Agility prohibits and does not tolerate the use of involuntary, forced or bonded labor, including slavery, prison labor, or labor demanded of employees because of their debt. This means that: 1. Employees or prospective employees should not pay in return for employment, and that includes not paying recruitment agencies fees that become the equivalent of indentured servitude. 2. Employees are not required to turn over their official identity papers, including passports, driving licenses or any other form of government issued lD without employees' voluntary and explicit consent, or as required by law. 3. Agility will not unreasonably restrict employee movements, or stop employees from leaving their place of work at the end of a shift. 4. Agility will not work with any agency or recruiting company which requires prospective employees to pay a fee in vlolation of local laws. a No child labor: Employees must always be above the legal working age in their country, and should never be youngerthan 15. a Competitive work hour and wages: Operate in full compliance with applicable wage, work hours, overtime, and benefits laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate. a Employee confidentiality: Maintain the confidentiality of employee information a Ability to raise complaints: Agility provides opportunities for all employees to raise ethical concerns either in person or through an anonymous holline. a Protection for people that raise grievances: Enforce a policy of no-retaliation against anyone reporting a suspected violation in good faith. ,+gitit;Defeilse ¿/ Governtnenf Serytces Progress & Measurement Employ aver 120 nationalities: More than 80% of Agility's workers are based in emerging markets, and more than 120 nationalities are represented on our global team. The majority of Agility's top and mid-level country management is local. Women hold almost one-third of management positions: Logistics globally is a male dominated industry, but women make up nearly a quarter of Agility's core commercial business overall and nearly onethird of management, professional, sales, and support roles. Ongoing focus on fair labor standards: We trained more than 6,800 employees in the Middle East, Africa and Asia, most of whom are migrant workers (mostly from Asia) on fair labor standards, including zero tolerance for forced labor, payment of bribes 1o recruitment agencies, and illegal retention of passports. We also trained country mânagement, human resources teams, and operations supervisors in each of these countries, and conducted multiple social audils in the Middle East & Africa countries that are under the scope of this program. We continue to implement the audit recommendations. Training and education: We invested in more than 10,500 industrial, technical, and skill development training courses foremployees in 2013-2014. Employees averaged 3.97 training hours each in 20,13 and 2014. Sharpen our focus on health and safety: Agility hired a new Global Director for Health and Safety in 2013, and top management now receives regular HSE reports. Preventable injury rates have fallen more than 80%. We have developed and rolled out a global safety manualto all operating locations, and we have developed and implemented mobile and online safety applications to report and manage near misses and safety incidents. Our 2015 performance of .19 lost workday injuries per 200,000 hours worked is g0% better than the industry standard; and our .24 recordable injuries per 200,000 hours worked is better than the índustry standard by 80%. lncreased employee engagement: Company intranet with social media and collaboration features enable more personalized, two-way dialogue with management. Additionally, Agility has started a branch manager excellence program to reach front line managers and engage them in learning and discussion about the company's strategy and future. This compliments a wide range of leadership development programs for executives at various levels of the organization. 8% of our middle managers participated in leadership development programs in 2013 2A15. Each of our leadership development and training programs share specific objectives and goals: 1. Performance FocusedThey are a clear drive to specific, measurable development and business outcomes. 2. ContinuityThey are held two to five times each yeardepending on group, topic and need. 3. Action-LearningEach session follows a paltern of structured pre-work & analysis, in-sessíon workshops like best practices and problem solving, and followup action times to apply the learning. 4. Co-creation-Leaders and experts work together with participants in design and delivery. 5. Peer learningCreation of a forum for best practices, business, networking, healthy competition, and accountability in results delivery. 6. Three Tiers PresentSenior executives, regional/functional executives and management levels are working together. This ensures alignment; and it speeds execution of the projects undertaken by the pañicipants 7. Line Management Led and DrivenSenior management learns to drive these sessions. lt becomes a key part of managemenl job and skill set. These programs are not staff driven . AgilitY Yüþì Defense ¿a 5overn,rrcnt Setytces Envi ronmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Êncourage the development and d iffusion of environmentally friendly tech nolog ies Assessment, Policy and Goals !tr ,¡{) I I í:;: 21,\i 5 År;ilri,,, ir',,t: ,ll,ì,.t'l'. r ,,,ln¡,'f, .rt: At Agility, we believe in building trust with employees, 'r'1,,,'¡,1. . j.ljiili :.:, r':ì customers, communities, suppliers, and shareholders illf,l, {--l l.ri¡ ¡ P¡lr f.lr,'r. f l ¡1 r-¡ì; ri;.r! iiri.lil:ir l, r q-lr¡i:i iir-rl by doing what is right, being a good citizen, working 'iiìr,q.,i..ì:,ÊJ { iììtl-r.¡tìì*1 ¡it.:i l]çt¡:r,rn¡l.l'.ìli: i.l¡i:iìíl safely, honoring rules of engagement, and giving back í:i:>ï lx¿t:li: t::, ì¡t ii¡çì¡ :r.¡r¡i:i,¡ r-l.l¡!it, lr.rr:i:tir :, .lrtrj to our communities and planet. The environmental it nirtijr.ril{tl ;ill ilr:¡1.,¡lÍr-;¡l:, j t ¡l';ilti¡ ¡r1 l.i,¡rji¡l,ir r impact issues presented in the logistics industry are triiTfrl', ai.'rn1.!l¡l ri' r. r ili;i.?l'',¡ ¡rl;¡irl;li.¡:;iti complex, especially in current economic conditions i l ¡itirtí:¡cr, r.r ¡I!,ri.rl¡ ¿ii'.,e, I i¡:Llll ¡¡:,l -tli iv*::¡ and in emerging market locations. We understand the ¡.'tr.:i+:r ! :, ¿!i( i f ), t; t¡iiírnrilr ; i n l;i.¡irlir' -l>ri-:¡ ii. !;irrìt:r:ir,i:t¡;s...lttij 1iif,: tl;t;'.t,¡. aiiilìf)¡¡ì¡.-'t l.-, il:j impact of supply chains on the environment and the i :'.ir,rl l.¡¿¡¡¡l r;i ; l¡ ¡i l:,+¡ ir itrr'¡¿ I l..s: lo'lc,¡:;r t,¡ l;lp f : importance of measuring and minimizing that impact qt i,:i:rrì r ri!:-iìi:,. rr:ii;iiir;bÌlitr¡ illlir:ç¡li,l¡t, wherever possible. ,:.,¡ : ¡-, r : t: r-¡:.'i.'i ¡¡l ì 1, r¡ ¡ l li l l r.] r t ¡L i ¡ : ¡ ¡ ! ? t.,' ! ¡: i L ; i-¡ l¡ :);)rttl,:1 )*.',,4,1 ¡¡ r: :ti ¡]' hi¡i { i : <. l¡¡ rll r.i? ll i¡t. i:¡ : ¡c¡tt. We continue to make progress in understanding our impact on the environment, and in making changes in our business to he¡p us perform better in this space. Overthe last four years, we have mapped our carbon footprint in nearly 75% percent of our core logistics operat¡ons. We are working with customers on high impaet programs to manage environmental issues. At the local level we are taking steps to improve our impact in ways that are important to our local communities and or business. And we continue to participate in dialogue on important environmental issues with industry and civil society partners. Progress & Measurement Ongoing customer pârtnersh¡ps around leaner, greener supply chains: Agility is working with some of the world's largest companies to improve efficiencies and reduce environmental impact in the supply chain. Examples range from consolidating goods in transit for a global telecommunications company, to managing the supply chain for one of the world's largest natural gas plants in an environmentally protected zone, to offering closed-loop logistics for one of the world's largest hard drive manufacturers. Agility also recycles pallets and packaging waste for a global sports apparel retailer in lndonesia and the Philippines. Offering free carbon report¡ng to customers: Agility offers customers free carbon reporting through its freight management system, as well as a quick emissions transporl câlculator on its mobile apps for iPhone, Windows, and Android. Expanding our internal environmental awareness campaign: Agility is now in the third year of its internal Think Green, Act Green campaign, to raise awareness of environmental management issues. The Think Green, Act Green campaign uses policies, work instructions, posters, podcasts, newsletters, and a green pledge to encourage employees to follow environmental principles. Additionally, since 2006, we have completed a total of approximately 1,370 community projects. As of June 2015, more than 250 of those projects are related to employee engagement on environmental issues. These projects include I Agilíty \* .' De¡ense ú Government Servtces everything from tree plantíngs, park clean-ups, educating children about the environment, raising internal awareness, offering green solutions to our customers and a host of other projects. Our employees have volunteered to participate in these projects on more than 7,500 occasions. Expanding the quality and scope of our carbon emissions mapping: Agility is now tracking carbon emissions in nearly 75o/o of its operations. Our estimated direct CO2 emissions for 2014 were down approximately 10% from the average annual emissions from 2011-2A13. Agility uses its Shared Services The goal: to cut CO2 Center in lndia to consolidate utilily and fuel bills from each country and to produce country-level and company-wide emissions by 15 carbon footprint reports on an annual basis. Agility also tracks its outsourced carbon footprint using two sources. First, we percent per container use our freight tracking database to understand distances and transported on Agility corresponding emissions related to air, ocean, and overland freight moved by Agility through subcontracted carriers. shipments by 2020. This provides us with a working estimate of outsourced carbon emissions. (lt is not an exact measurement because of the fact that our database does not currently distinguish between fuel and vessel types * i.e. a large or small vessel or aircraft.) Second, we use a central database to capture miles and corresponding emissions related to business travel by Agility employees. This database covers approximately 80% of all employee travel. Agility represents the freight fonruarding industry on the steering committee of the Clean Cargo Working Group (CCWG), an international coalition of logistics providers, ocean carriers and retailers committed to improving the environmental performance of maritime container transport. CCWG carriers handle 85 percent of containerized global shipments. This year, the CCWG is expanding its scope to include the airfreight industry. A few of th e ways Ag i 1ity is h elping cusforners lower emrssions.' Modeling shipping variables with proprietary tool lhat allows them to design the most efficient, low carbon supply chain possible a Measuring and reporting CO2 emissions monthly. Aggregated emissions can be integrated into monthly, quarterly and annual business reports and can be configured based on origin and destination locations, customer hierarchy of priorities, or other criteria. a Offering pre-shipment CO2 estimates on shipafreight.com, the new self-service online portal powered by the Agility network. a Providing CO2 emissions estimates on the Agility Android and lPhone mobile application, an easyto-use tool even for users who aren't shipping with Agility. Reporting electricity, fuel and water consumption, and waste generation via a proprietary application that converts consumed electricity into CO2 emissions using lnternational Energy Agency standards. The appfication provides real-time reports on emissions and feeds data into regular reports to customers. Converting local fleets in places such as Thailand to compressed natural gas and training drivers to reduce idling time and cut speeds to lessen environmental impact. We also recycle tires, batteries and other truck components. Asifiù'3 Ðelense ¿r Government Serulæs a Calculating origin and destination trucking emissions, in addition to lnternational Ocean and air shipping emissions. a Working with CarbonTrust to provide data that enables customers to offset their CO2 emissions. Emissions from shipments typically are reported on an at least basis, meaning they offer an estimate of at least what has been emitted on a journey. Pursuing global ISO 14001 certification: Today, nearly 50% of all Agility employees work in an ISO 14001 certified site. Piloting sustainable technologies: Agility has procured electric vehicles for the first time, and we are employing sustainable energy in three operations locations. We are looking at this technology, and considering its wider use where it is economically feasible. Agility has developed green freight fonruarding products as well as supply chain design and management tools to enable our customers to reduce their environmental impact without affecting service quality and reliability. We engage with our customers to directly analyze supply chain operations, and then estimate CO2 impact alongside schedule and cost factors. We can then offerdifferent freight solutions to help customers reduce their supply chain costs and environmental impact. With this kind of dialogue, we work together with our customers to help them better understand supply chain environmental impact, and take steps together to improve cost and operational efficiencies. Participating in industry dialogue with the World Economic Forum & Business for Social Responsibility: Agility continues to engage wilh customers, non-profit organizations, and other industry leaders on industry-relevant sustainability issues, via its strategic partners, the World Economic Forum & Business for Social Responsibility lmproving Supply Chain Management ln 2014 &2A15, Agility received a silver rating from EcoVadis, an independent CSR evaluation organization. The EcoVadis evaluation is based on an in-depth CSR analysis system covering 21 criteria across foul themes of Environment, Fair labor practices, ethicsifair business practices, and supply chain. The EcoVadis methodology is built on international CSR standards including the Global Reporting lnitiative, the United Nations Global Compact, and the 1S026000, covering 150 spend categories and 140 countries. Anti-Conuption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Anti-corruption efforts are gaining emphasis in the logistics industry. Agility's . ,,, ' I '.:,; , : .: has been amended to reflect the strong anti-corruption standards set by both the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and the UK Anti-Bribery Act. Agility's Code highlights important international regulations, including US, EU and UN sanctíons, and guides employees on how to comply. This is critical given our role as a multinational company facilitating trade around the world. ln order for employees to understand their ethics and compliance obligations, we must invest in training and awareness that focuses on key topics for our industry and business. Agility's ethics courses concentrate on real world situations. Topics include antitrust, anticorruption, conflicts of interest, competition law, environmental protection, health and safety, human rights, intellectual property, government procurement, and sanctions compliance. Agitíty -lt# DeJense ù Government Servtces Agility is a signatory of the World Economic Forum's Partnering Against Corruption lnitiative (PACI). Signatories of PACI are committed to having a zerc tolerance policy towards bribery and to developing and implementing anti-corruption programs. More information aboui PACI can be found on the World Economic Forum web-site. Agility is also an active member of the Committee to Address Facilitation Payments (CAFP), a private initiative led by global companies that are working together to address future demand/risk of facilitation type payments in a thoughtful, proactive and appropriate manner. Progress & Measurement Ensure high standards are enshrined in Agility's Gode of Ethics and Business Conduct: Every employee receives training on our Code, which covers topics such as competition and fair selling practices; bribes gifts, and conflicts of interest; financial integrity and controls; record keeping and reporting; employee ríghts and working conditions; health, safety, and environment protection; and government controls and sanctions. Two new ethics policies and guides were introduced, including an operational level guide to UN, US and EU sanctions, as well as an EU-focused Europe Anti-Bribery Policy. The Code was also amended to include tougher anti-bribery language. Anti-corruption initiatives: Agility parlicipates in the World Economic Forum Partnering against Corruption lnitiative (PACI) as well as a private sector initiative, the Committee to Address Facilitation Payments (CAFP). From 2013-2A15, more than 2A,440 employees received anticorruption training, which outlined definilions of bribery, identified activities that might constitute bribes and bribery of foreign officials, and explained how to appropriately work with agents Ethics and compliance training for more than 85% of all employees: Agility employees took more than 82,800 ethics courses from 2013-2A15. More than 85olo of employees participated to help make sure we continue to uphold the high standards enshrined in our Code of Business Ethics and Conduct. Empowering employees to report grievances through training and an ethics hotline: ln 2013 &2A14, nearly 25o/o of employees completed online whistleblower training. Our various grievance reporting mechanisms remain in place, including an anonymous holline that is answered in ten languages by a thirdparty provider. Agility ' Dcfense ú Governrrcnt Servk:cs For more information, please contact Frank Clary VP, Corporate Social Responsibility
