Annual Report 2019 Year Ended March 31, 2019 Bringing Hope to Patients Santen’s Values 1 1. Santen’s original interpretation of a passage from chapter 22 of Zhongyong (The Doctrine of the Mean) by Confucius, meaning “exploring the secrets and mechanisms of nature in order to contribute to people’s health.” We think carefully about what is essential, decide clearly what we should do, and act quickly. Mission Statement By focusing on ophthalmology, Santen develops unique scientific knowledge and organizational capabilities that contribute to the well-being of patients, their loved ones and consequently to society. Ophthalmology is our singular focus. Santen has conducted business as a specialized pharmaceutical company in ophthalmology since its foundation in 1890. Based on Santen’s Values and Mission Statement, we will continue to contribute even further to ophthalmic treatments, working toward better eye health and healthy lives for all. CONTENTS 1 Santen’s Values 2 Our History as a Specialized Pharmaceutical Company 4 Our Strengths 6 CEO Message 10 COO Message 14 Medium-Term Plan (MTP2020) 20 Feature: Contributing to Global Ophthalmology by Developing New Drugs and Treatment Options 24 Facts and Figures 26 Research and Development 28 Business Review 28 Japan Business 30 Asia Business 31 EMEA2 Business 32 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) 38 Corporate Governance 38 Corporate Governance 46 Directors, Corporate Auditors and Corporate Officers 48 Financial Information and Corporate Information 48 Eleven-Year Summary of Selected Financial Data 50 Financial Statements 56 Corporate Information/Stock Information 2. Europe, the Middle East and Africa The following are registered trademarks of Santen’s alliance partners: Cravit (DAIICHI SANKYO COMPANY, LIMITED); Eylea (Bayer AG); Alesion (Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH); Lentis Comfort (Oculentis BV) Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2019 1 Our History as a Specialized Pharmaceutical Company In the nearly 130 years since its founding, Santen has conducted business toward improving the quality of life (QOL) for people around the world by focusing on the ophthalmology and developing its business globally. 1890 1950 1990 Establishment in 1890 Business Strategy Taking on Challenges Taguchi Santendo opened in Focused on Eye Drops, for a Global Rollout Osaka, Japan in 1890. Expansion into Prescription On the centennial of Santen’s Daigaku Eye Drops launched in Pharmaceuticals founding in 1990, the Company 1899. announced its long-term vision: “To During the period of recovery Today, more than 100 years contribute to society with the best following World War II, Santen later, these long-selling eye products and services focusing on worked to rebuild around a drops remain a favorite for the eye and health.” With the launch business strategy focused on eye many. of Hyalein in 1995, Santen began drops. In 1958, the Company expanding its product lineup, advanced into the prescription accelerating its growth in Japan. It pharmaceutical business. also established subsidiaries Midorin-P launched in 1962, and including Santen Inc. in the U.S. and greatly boosted Santen’s reputaSanten Oy in Finland and started tion in the field of prescription building a structure for global clinical ophthalmic pharmaceuticals. development and production. 2 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2019 2000 2010 Expanding Solutions and Accelerating Global Development to Full-Scale Entry into Asia Contribute to People’s Eye Health Worldwide Santen has developed a wide range of Under its long-term strategic vision toward 2020 of products and services that contribute to becoming a “Specialized Pharmaceutical Company with a ophthalmology, including the launch of Global Presence,” Santen is accelerating its global Cravit in 2000, a next-generation “dimple development, taking over the ophthalmology products bottle” which is designed to make applicafrom U.S.-based Merck & Co., Inc. in 2014. After tion easier for patients, and intraocular assigning the anti-rheumatic pharmaceuticals business in lenses. The company has also strength2015, Santen has further concentrated management ened its global sales base, spreading to resources in the ophthalmology field and continued to new sites and plants primarily in Asia, take on the challenges of contributing to better eye health including China and Korea. for people worldwide. Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2019 3 Our Strengths Santen has built its expertise and technical capabilities in the specialized field of ophthalmology through a thorough customer focus for patients and medical professionals. Taking advantage of these strengths, Santen will contribute to enhancing QOL for patients around the world by responding to customer needs in each region and through a product lineup that covers a wide range of ophthalmic disorders. Thorough customer focus Specialized expertise in the field of ophthalmology Enhancing QOL for ophthalmic patients around the world 4 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2019 Revenue Composition by Category 30 Medical Devices Others Over-the-Counter (OTC) Over million Pharmaceuticals Revenue for Prescription Fiscal 2018 Pharmaceuticals ¥234.0 billion Number of Countries/Regions for Share of the Prescription Ophthalmic Business Development Pharmaceutical Market (Amount) 1 #1 #2 Japan/Korea China Over 60 Annual Production Volume of Primary Ophthalmic Number of Products Ophthalmic Solutions Disorders Covered Sold in Japan Approx. Retinal Disorders 400 70 Glaucoma Dry Eye Ocular Infections Over million bottles 2 Allergy Cataract 1. Source: Copyright © 2019 IQVIA. Santen analysis based on JPM, MIDAS 2018. Reprinted with permission. 2. Ophthalmic solutions packaged in single-dose disposable containers are aggregated by counting 10 single-dose containers as 1 bottle. All other ophthalmic solutions are counted based on the actual number of bottles. Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2019 5 CEO Message 6 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2019 As a specialized pharmaceutical company, we will continue to contribute to the eye health of people worldwide. Supporting the Eye Health of People Worldwide Based on Santen’s Values Santen’s Values are embodied in the phrase “Tenki ni sanyo suru,” which literally means “exploring the secrets and mechanisms of nature in order to contribute to people’s health.” Since our founding in 1890, we have continued to contribute to patients and their loved ones in the specialized field of ophthalmology based on the philosophy behind this phrase, from which our company name is also derived. Santen has built its expertise and capabilities in this field based on a thorough customer focus, taking advantage of these strengths to offer products and services aligned with the needs of each region across a wide range of ophthalmic disorders, including retinal disorders, glaucoma, dry eye, ocular infections, allergy and cataracts. I myself have attached great importance to Santen’s Values as a basis for management decision-making, and have focused our resources on ophthalmology as we work to contribute to patients. Under our long-term strategic vision toward 2020 of becoming a “Specialized Pharmaceutical Company with a Global Presence,” we will also accelerate our global development. Today, we support the eye health of over 30 million people in over 60 countries and regions. Further Information▶ P.1 Santen’s Values A Mission to Contribute to Ophthalmology as a Specialized Company The eyes are an organ of critical importance to daily life. We get over 80% of our information through our vision, and according to a report by the World Health Organization (WHO), those with impaired vision are involved in traffic accidents at a rate triple that of those with healthy vision, reflecting a significant decline in Quality of Life (QOL). Approximately 217 million people suffer from low vision1 worldwide, while about 36 million people are blind. This means that of the global population, 1 out of 30 people has some kind of problem with eye health.2 Meanwhile, it is thought that about 80% of vision impairment worldwide could be prevented through early detection and treatment; providing information on disease and treatment and offering treatment methods is thus critically important. 1. The WHO defines low vision as corrected visual acuity of both eyes of 0.05 or greater but less than 0.3. 2. Source: Lancet Global Health 2017;5: e888-97 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2019 7 A global increase in the elderly population and the emergence of new diagnostic technologies is expected to drive a further increase in the number of ophthalmic patients. Depending on country and region, there are also many patients without access to appropriate diagnoses and treatment, whether because of problems with local healthcare conditions or for economic reasons. Given these and a variety of other issues surrounding ophthalmology today, we have taken on the challenge of creating an environment in which optimal care reaches as many patients as possible. These efforts include support for glaucoma and dry eye research and patient awareness both inside and outside Japan, development and provision of a glaucoma treatment continuation program package, assistance for the education of ophthalmologists in emerging countries, and improving access to pharmaceuticals. I believe our mission is to contribute to people’s eye health through our business as a specialized pharmaceutical company. Further Information▶ P.20 Feature: Contributing to Global Ophthalmology by Developing New Drugs and Treatment Options P.26 Research and Development P.28 Japan Business P.30 Asia Business P.31 EMEA Business P.32 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) A Strengthened Management Base to Achieve a Sustainable Society and Enhance Corporate Value It is even more important that we contribute to achieving a sustainable society through our business activities while also ensuring our sustainable growth as a company. Santen makes ongoing efforts to strengthen corporate governance for business sustainability. We believe that it is essential not only to have systems for corporate governance in place, but also to implement measures to ensure that those systems function effectively. For example, Outside Directors and Outside Corporate Auditors must engage in prompt, appropriate decision-making, in addition to providing management oversight. To ensure they can perform these duties, we share information about our business strategies, business environment and other issues and create opportunities for interactive communication. We also believe that thorough compliance systems are essential to providing appropriate products and services to patients around the world, and we are thus focused on reinforcing our global compliance systems. 8 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2019 Santen continues to support the United Nations (UN) Global Compact. We have augmented our daily business activities with the UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles covering the four areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption, and we are working toward the development of a sustainable society. Through these efforts, we will continue to meet the expectations of patients and those involved in ophthalmology worldwide, contributing to society through our business. Further Information▶ P.32 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) P.38 Corporate Governance August 2019 Akira Kurokawa Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2019 9 COO Message 10 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2019 Contributing to people’s eye health worldwide through a wide range of ophthalmic products and services. Contributing in the Ophthalmology Field Is Our True Mission Looking back at fiscal 2018, we made considerable progress in executing our key strategies under MTP2020, the new three-year Medium-Term Plan we announced as the culmination of our long-term vision through 2020. In our global business strategy, the goal was to achieve Group-wide growth that exceeded that of the market by advancing into the fast-growing Asian market using assets and knowledge from Japan and EMEA. This included focusing on activities deeply rooted in customer needs in each Asian country and rolling out products originally launched in Japan and EMEA such as Ikervis and Diquas in Asia. In addition, we leveraged our personnel and expertise in medical and regulatory affairs in Japan and EMEA for the Asia business. As a result, sales in Asia grew over 20% year on year, leading sales growth for the Group as a whole. Solid progress was also made in advance of entering the U.S. market, including preparations for a 2019 PMA (premarket approval) application for PRESERFLO MicroShunt, a glaucoma treatment device, and the signing of an exclusive distributor agreement for the same device with Glaukos Corporation. During the year, Santen has also expanded lineup of products and services beyond eye drops, including the launch in Japan of Eybelis, an intraocular lens for cataract surgery, supplements, and carried out global efforts to enhance patient awareness. Santen’s fundamental policy under MTP2020 is to achieve our long-term strategic vision toward 2020 of becoming a “Specialized Pharmaceutical Company with a Global Presence,” and building a pathway to sustained growth in 2020 and beyond. With the expansion of our products and services and through customer-focused activities involving patients and doctors, the ratio of overseas sales reached 31% in fiscal 2018 as our global presence continues to grow. Going forward, we will continue to leverage our specialization and knowledge in the ophthalmology field to further expand our contributions to patients and their loved ones. Further Information▶ P.14 Medium-Term Plan (MTP2020) Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2019 11 Contributing to Fulfilling Lives for People through a Broad Approach As a specialized ophthalmology company, Santen has expanded its efforts to respond to the needs of patients and those involved in medical care. For example glaucoma, which requires lifetime control over intraocular pressure, has few noticeable symptoms, leading many patients to stop treatment which makes continued treatment an issue. In our Japan business, Santen has begun supplying its own developed glaucoma treatment program packages to medical clinics as part of our efforts to support treatment compliance. As populations age, the number of ophthalmology patients worldwide is expected to increase even further, giving Santen an even greater responsibility for eye health. Looking at conditions surrounding global ophthalmology, some regions in emerging countries may not be able to provide patients with appropriate information and treatment, and offering more people access to high-quality eye care is an issue. Expectations have also grown for innovations in diagnostic technology and qualitative improvements in treatment, including regenerative medicine, gene therapy, IoT and micro-devices. As a specialized company in the ophthalmic field, Santen approaches these issues from a broad point of view. We hope to continue the challenge of helping patients and others the world over achieve happy lives, while actively incorporating these and other new technologies. Further Information▶ P.20 Feature: Contributing to Global Ophthalmology by Developing New Drugs and Treatment Options Strengthening Our Organizational Base to Create Sustained Value for Customer Acceleration of business growth overseas brings with it the globalization of our organization, including a ratio of overseas employees exceeding 50%, as well as increased diversification of needs among patients, medical professionals and other customers. To respond to those diverse needs, Santen undertook a review of its global structure with the goal of strengthening its organizational capabilities, and in April 2019 we conducted major organizational changes. Sales and marketing organizations are now dedicated to customer-facing activities. R&D and other organizations responsible for creating and supplying products and services are focused on providing solutions based on customer needs. Finally, the mission of the corporate organization is to contribute to our customers by promoting our strategies and optimizing operations with a global perspective. We have also begun work on business process reforms across the 12 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2019 entire Group, as well as global standardization and integration of processes and systems centered on mission-critical operations. Through these efforts, we will improve both productivity and organizational collaboration, and focus management resources on activities that generate customer value, while also enhancing the quality of our products and services. All of us at Santen will continue working together toward sustainable growth as we contribute to better eye health for people the world over. August 2019 Shigeo Taniuchi President and Chief Operating Officer Head of North America Business Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2019 13 Medium-Term Plan We formulated the Medium-Term Plan (MTP2020) covering the period from fiscal 2018 to fiscal 2020 to realize Santen’s long-term strategic vision of becoming a “Specialized Pharmaceutical Company with a Global Presence” by 2020 and move toward sustainable growth beyond 2020. With MTP2020, we have set strategic goals to improve customer satisfaction, profitability, and organizational strength. Through steady execution of priority strategies toward achieving these goals, we are aiming to offer products and services of the highest quality that best satisfy actual needs of patients and medical professionals, and sustainably contribute to ophthalmic treatment around the world. By contributing to the QOL of patients worldwide, Santen will Fundamental realize its long-term strategic vision through 2020 to become a Policy “Specialized Pharmaceutical Company with a Global Presence” while constructing a path for sustainable growth beyond 2020. Increase Strategic Increase customer Increase organizational Goals satisfaction profitability strength (1) Grow faster than the market through progress in global business strategy Key (2) Enhance the product pipeline and develop new treatment options Strategies (3) Raise the strength and efficiency of business framework as well as boost human resource and organizational capabilities Revenue Growth Core OP Ratio ROE Financial Targets 6% 21% 11% (CAGR) (MTP average) (MTP average) 14 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2019 Under our global business strategy, which is one of the expanding our knowledge in Asia. Asia encompasses a key strategies, we will further accelerate business growth in population of over four billion people, and although the Japan, Asia and EMEA, while also steadily preparing to region will have a shift in aging populations going forward, enter the U.S. market. it is also expected to continue experiencing high economic In Japan, Santen has dominant strength in ophthalmic growth and therefore greater expansion in the ophthalmic pharmaceutical markets based on sales and production pharmaceutical market. capabilities developed over many years. In addition, we Our preparations of the U.S. entry will continue with the have established a presence in Europe, which has a major aim of early contribution to earnings from 2021 onwards. inﬂuence worldwide including academia, as well as Based on continuous business development, we will work standards and regulatory policies such as GMP 1. Under to build a presence in the U.S. market, which drives MTP2020, while we make an even greater contribution to innovation in life sciences. ophthalmic care across each region by using the experience 1. GMP stands for “Good Manufacturing Practice,” which is a standard for and knowledge we have cultivated until now as our manufacturing control and quality control for drugs and quasi-drugs strength, we aim to grow faster than the market by Review of Previous Medium-Term Plan Fiscal 2014-2017 Medium-Term Plan Priorities and Basic Policies Major Achievements •Revenue Exceeded 200 Billion Yen: Achieved the Vision 2020 Priorities revenue target of 200 billion yen 3 years ahead of the plan •Grow and improve proﬁtability in Asia and EMEA • Increased Sales Regions/Countries: An increase to •Prepare for business expansion to the U.S. and other regions approximately 60 from 50 countries and regions due to Basic Policies products acquired through U.S.-based Merck & Co., Inc. and •Product Development: Transform product development to shifting from an agency model to direct selling model realize enhanced productivity and achieve sustained growth •Achieved 30% Overseas Revenue Composition: Growth from •Business Expansion: Grow business in Asia/EMEA and the launch of new products in addition to organic growth and strengthen market presence by entering into new markets growth from products acquired through Merck & Co., Inc. •Organization and Talent: Develop talent and organization to •Enhanced and Advanced Pipeline: Received approval and realize sustained growth launched Ikervis in Europe, ﬁled for DE-117 in Japan, added DE-126 and DE-128 to the pipeline, received approval for Diquas in China, etc. Fiscal 2011-2013 Medium-Term Plan Priorities and Basic Policies Major Achievements Priorities •Product Development: Established a global clinical •Strengthened Japan business development system, reinforced product pipeline through •Complete preparations for business expansion in Asia and business development and acquisitions EMEA •Japan Business: Achieved sales growth driven by new Basic Policies products (Tapros, Diquas, Eylea, Cosopt, etc.), decline in 1.Promote globally oriented research and development long-listed drugs ratio 2.Obtain high market share and achieve growth in Japan •Overseas Business: Achieved growth in China, Asia business through the promotion of new products and businesses turned to proﬁtability implementation of marketing strategies •Product Supply: Executed measures to reduce manufacturing 3.Accelerate growth in both Asia and Europe by reinforcing cost, implemented structural reforms at production bases in marketing platforms Europe 4.Establish a global product supply system with our existing •Organization and Talent: Implemented an organizational four plants, which enable us to meet emerging market needs management system in line with business globalization 5.Develop talents and organizational capabilities to promote “creation and innovation” on a global level Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2019 15 Highlights for the First Year of MTP2020 In fiscal 2018 as the first year for MTP2020, Santen moved agreement allows us to build a sales structure to deliver the forward with important steps to complete the plan. We product to more patients at an earlier date. focused particularly on glaucoma, a disease that can lead to We also began joint research with PeptiDream, Inc. and blindness, with the launch of sales in Japan in November RIKEN, as well as gene therapy development with Oxford 2018 for Eybelis, a product with a new mechanism of Biomedica plc. We will actively undertake initiatives to introduce action as a treatment for glaucoma and ocular hypertennew outside technologies to the ophthalmic field, and aim to sion. Santen is also proceeding with development in Asia offer treatment methods that meet the needs of patients. and the U.S.. Furthermore, in striving to contribute to eye Due to the impact in Japan business by NHI drug price health by a broader range of solutions, we also launched reductions, the rate of growth in revenue in fiscal 2018 was sales in Japan in April 2019 for Lentis Comfort, a new 4.0%, compared to the target of more than 6% CAGR. concept for intraocular lenses used as a cataract However, in Asia, primarily China and South Korea, sales treatment option. We are also proceeding with developgrowth exceeded 20% year on year, maintaining a high ment of DE-128 (PRESERFLO MicroShunt), a device growth rate. Due to continued growth in priority products in used in glaucoma surgery, in the U.S. with the aim of Japan business and significant growth in overseas launching sales in 2020. Along with this development, we businesses, we are aiming to achieve more than 6% annual have concluded an agreement with Glaukos Corporation, a average growth as a target for MTP2020. Core operating leading company in the field of glaucoma treatment devices, profit margin was also 20.6% (with an MTP average target in which Glaukos will become the exclusive distributor of the of more than 21%) and ROE was 11.1% (with an MTP PRESERFLO MicroShunt solely in the U.S. market. The average target of more than 11%). Further Information▶ P.20 Feature: Contributing to Global Ophthalmology by Developing New Drugs and Treatment Options P.26 Research and Development P.28 Japan Business P.30 Asia Business P.31 EMEA Business 16 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2019 Topics Contributing to Patients’ Enhanced QOL with Ophthalmologists from around the World at the World Ophthalmology Congress During the 36th World Ophthalmology Congress (WOC2018) held in Barcelona, Spain in June 2018, Santen collected messages from visitors to the Santen booth on the theme of aspirations for the future of ophthalmology, in addition to its regular congress activities. Santen donated two euros to provide glasses to people in developing countries for each message received. Contributing to society by enhancing patients’ QOL was a wonderful opportunity shared deeply with Santen’s corporate values. Also, Santen conducted three sponsored symposiums on the themes of dry eye and glaucoma, attracting a total of over 1,800 people. The congress provided a chance for those involved in the medical ﬁeld from around the world to engage in cross-border sharing of clinical experience and the latest knowledge. Raising Awareness of Early Detection and Continued Treatment of Glaucoma Globally during World Glaucoma Week World Glaucoma Week is held in March to raise awareness of glaucoma throughout the world. Santen provides its support for these activities every year and cooperated with promoting awareness activities for patients around the world in 2019. In addition, Santen provided make-up lessons to patients so that the side-effects of ophthalmic drops for glaucoma did not stand out, held lectures and distributed a smart phone app in which users can experience a simulation of the visual ﬁeld impairment caused by glaucoma. The Company also held lectures by ophthalmologist and patient for the purpose of fostering employees’ understanding of glaucoma and encouraging employees to spread awareness of the disease to their family and friends. Glaucoma is a disease in which lifelong blindness can be avoided with early diagnosis and adequate treatment. Santen will continue raising awareness of the disease to reduce instances of blindness through glaucoma. Taking Part in Events Marking the 25th Anniversary of the Suzhou Industrial Park in China Santen’s Suzhou Plant, which is located in the Suzhou Industrial Park that commenced development in 1994 as an economic partnership between China and Singapore, held a commemorative ceremony to mark the 25th anniversary of its establishment in April 2019. Representatives of both countries, iconic Chinese IT companies and various companies from around the world participated in the ceremony, which Santen was invited to attend in recognition of its contribution to the medical industry within the park. We aim to continue to contribute to eye health for all and the development of business in the expanding Chinese market. Further Information▶ P.30 Asia Business Developing Activities for Appropriate Ophthalmological Treatment in Japan in Collaboration with External Partners Santen started initiatives in Japan in 2016 aimed at promoting appropriate ophthalmic treatment with the purpose of preventing eye disease and cessation of treatment. Currently, Santen is raising awareness of continued treatment through pharmacies and collaborating with companies, organizations and local governments to engage in activities that lead to early detection of disease and medical treatment using Santen OptiNavi 1 and vision loss simulator to experience how vision is affected by ophthalmic diseases. We will raise Santen’s activities to a higher level to attract a greater attention throughout society about eye health. 1. A simple, self-check website for eye health developed with ophthalmologists Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2019 17 Capital Policy Financial Strategy to enhancing a business management system that monitors the status of businesses expanding globally. For In seeking to establish competitive superiority in the field of capital efficiency, we will proceed with optimization of the ophthalmology, Santen aims to enhance its profitability in debt-to-equity ratio (D/E ratio) and asset downsizing, while tandem with maximizing its cash generation capability as well considering both growth investments and financial as shareholder value. Our basic policy is to maintain the right soundness. In fiscal 2018, Santen decided to sell the balance between securing sufficient internal reserves to location of the vacant site of former head office and Osaka implement growth strategies and returning profits to plant, and transferred the Tampere Plant (Finland) to shareholders. At the same time, we pursue an optimal capital NextPharma Technologies Holdings Limited. structure for the Company in terms of capital efficiency, financial soundness and other factors. Santen is working to enhance return on equity attributable to owners of the Shareholder Returns company (ROE) by optimizing the aforementioned elements Our basic policy ensures management places greatest of profitability, financial soundness and shareholder returns. importance on shareholder returns. We return profits to For investment toward company growth, Santen is shareholders primarily through dividend payments, in planning active and efficient investment for strengthening tandem with repurchasing treasury shares as a supplementhe pipeline, acceleration of global development, new tal measure, taking into consideration a comprehensive medical technology and production sites, and information range of factors, including the mediumto long-term systems and other systems to enhance business bases business environment, funding requirements, internal around the world. For profitability, we espouse achieving reserves available, and capital structure. profit that exceeds capital cost as a basic policy, and In consideration of spare capital for growth investment, judge investments based on evaluation criteria for that we repurchased 8,144,000 shares in treasury stock in fiscal purpose. Furthermore, for return on investment, we are 2018 (of which, 7.5 million shares were retired on March undertaking initiatives to maximize cash generation 29, 2019) to further improve shareholder returns and through cash management that includes taxes, in addition capital efficiency. Maximize cash generation to implement effective investments in future growth and stable shareholder return Conduct active and effective investments in future growth Enhance pipeline Pursue new treatment technologies / innovation Accelerate development of business globally Make capital investment to support future growth Optimize profit and capital efficiency Strengthen global management framework Optimize global tax and cash management Balance investment in future growth and financial soundness Continue stable and sustainable shareholder return Implement stable and sustainable dividends 18 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2019 Strengthening Human Resources and Organizational Capabilities Strengthening Human Resources organizational capabilities underpinned by Santen’s Values while cultivating leadership through a systematic and Organizational Capability to approach. We are also focusing our efforts in Japan on Sustainably Contribute to Patients strengthening a stable HR base that supports developaround the World ment through job grade-based training and other At Santen, we believe improvements in human resources initiatives. (HR) and organizational capability are integral to sustainIn striving to strengthen its ability to execute global able contributions to patients as well as company growth. strategies and further contribute to our customers, Santen We are focusing on enhancing our ability to promote our reviewed organizational roles from a Group-wide perspecglobal business development by cultivating leadership tive and implemented organizational changes as of April talent to support sustained growth and strengthening 2019. With these changes, the Group defined the organizational capabilities. functions that connect to value contribution for our We are building and developing a HR system worldwide customers by increasing optimization and efficiency in for the cultivation of talent pursuing truly customer-focused global strategies and operations, as well as functions to value creation. This system derives from the Santen face and contribute directly to the customers in each Leadership Competencies (SLC) framework as the basis country and region. We are aiming to further contribute to for our expectations for personnel based on Santen’s ophthalmic treatments by improving the collaboration Values. We are undertaking initiatives to strengthen global across functions and unifying our employees. Santen Leadership Competencies (SLC) Expected behaviors of Santen Group employees based on Santen’s Values With a mindset and outline what and encourage to carry out from a perspective should be done oneself as well objectives to the end unique to Santen as others Customer-Focused Strategic Planning Change Leadership Drive for Achievement Value Creation Collaboration beyond Integrity and Trust Boundaries Expertise Application HR and Organizational Development Reinforcement of human resources and organizational capabilities based on Santen’s Values and SLC Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2019 19 Feature Contributing to Global Ophthalmology by Developing New Drugs and Treatment Options In order to deliver the best treatment for each individual patient, Santen focuses on developing treatment options that meet previously unmet needs by leveraging its expertise and technical abilities in the field of ophthalmology. Aiming to Make an Ongoing Providing the Best Treatment to Contribution to Ophthalmic as Many Patients as Possible Treatment around the World Unmet Needs in the Field of Glaucoma As elderly populations increase around the world, the number of Glaucoma is the second most common cause of ophthalmic patients is also increasing, and it is thought that one in blindness in the world1, and the number of those who every 30 people worldwide suffer from some form of visual suffer from glaucoma is expected to reach 150 million by impairment. In addition to this, the prevalence of computers and the year 20232. Although it is a serious disorder that mobile devices has led to an increased burden on people’s eyes, leads to blindness if symptoms progress, no permanent thus a heightened awareness of eye health regardless of age can be cure has been established and it requires treatment over expected going forward. As such, a wide range of treatment options the course of a person’s life. However, there are no that are suitable not only for a person’s ophthalmic symptoms or obvious symptoms and there are many patients who disorders but also their environment, lifestyle, age, and other such already have a reduced field of vision by the time the factors is required in order to deliver the best treatment. disorder is discovered or end up discontinuing At Santen, in addition to building up a strong and varied lineup of treatment, so early diagnosis and continued treatment products for a range of ophthalmic disorders, we have worked are issues that must be addressed. In addition to this, hard to provide products and services that meet a wide range of there are also cases where existing medicines cannot previously unmet needs by developing preservative-free products, provide the desired effect and where side effects limit combination ophthalmic solutions incorporating multiple pharmathe range of applicable medicines, meaning there is still ceuticals, and containers that simplify eye drop application. We are an insufficient number of options when it comes to also adopting highly distinguishable packaging among other treatment. This means that the development of effective measures. Currently, in addition to providing products that go drugs and treatments is highly anticipated. beyond eye drops such as surgical devices and supplements, we are now also working to develop a wide range of solutions to meet A New Eye Drop with a World First eye health needs that include programs to encourage the continuation of patient treatment and raising awareness of Action Mechanism ophthalmic disorders with the aim of making the kind of contribuIn order to address such unmet needs, Santen launched tion to patients that only a company specialized in the field of Eybelis, with its world first action mechanism in the field ophthalmology is capable of providing. of glaucoma drugs, as a new treatment option for 20 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2019 glaucoma patients. Eybelis boasts an excellent intraocuextremely small microtube (around twice the size of lar pressure (IOP) lowering action with once-a-day an eyelash) made of material with high bioaffinity from application, and has demonstrated an IOP lowering the outside of the eye. It can be inserted with the effect for patients who have been unable to obtain smallest incision, and compared to conventional results with prostaglandin-related drugs. surgical techniques, it has the potential to reduce the Currently, Eybelis is being developed beyond Japan burden of surgery on the patient, starting with on a global level, with an application for sales minimizing time in surgery. approval having been submitted in Asia and Phase 3 As well as working on development of this device trials underway in the U.S. We intend to leverage this ahead of a market launch in the U.S. in 2020, we also product’s prescription results and the knowledge plan to implement training for surgeons who perform gained during rollout domestically, and make use of glaucoma surgery using PRESERFLO MicroShunt so this knowledge in the treatment of glaucoma globally. that it can become a treatment method in which glaucoma patients feel safe and reassured. PRESERFLO MicroShunt: A Glaucoma 1. Source: WHO Global Data on Visual Impairments 2010 2. Source: Market Scope Treatment Device That Can Reduce Patient Burden The current treatments for glaucoma are centered on eye drops, but surgery is necessary in some cases where a sufficient reduction in intraocular pressure cannot be obtained through medication. However, conventional surgery for glaucoma entails a large burden for patients and ophthalmologists that includes, among other things, post-surgery care to prevent complications. As such, Santen is working on the development of a glaucoma surgery device called PRESERFLO MicroShunt as a treatment option for glaucoma patients who require surgery. This device enables a stable reduction in intraocular pressure through the insertion of an Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2019 21 Lentis Comfort: An Intraocular Lens for Cataract Treatment to Enhance Patient QOL Cataracts cause visual impairments such as deterioration of vision, blurring, and the sensation of brightness from clouding of the eye lens which occurs due to a range of factors. Normally, surgery that involves the replacement of the eye lens with an intraocular lens is performed for cataracts. In order to achieve comfortable longto mid-range visual acuity, Santen launched the Lentis Comfort intraocular lens for the treatment of cataracts in Japan. With a combination of circular sector-shaped dual monofocal design and mild additional power 1 , it is expected to provide a broader field of focus than conventional monofocal lenses, meaning it can expand the area in which the wearer feels they can see clearly without wearing glasses. It is also thought that this product can suppress noticeable symptoms that cause discomfort such as halos 2 and glare, and after an operation the patient can hope to live a comfortable daily life. 1. Additional power added to enable wearers to see nearby objects 2. Halo: A phenomenon where a ring of light is seen around an object at night and in dark areas Glare: A phenomenon in which light feels too bright or intense on the eyes Further Information▶ P.28 Japan Business Message Aiming to Improve the Environment for Glaucoma Patients The Glaucoma Friend Network is a general incorporated association comprised of patients that was established with the aim of raising awareness in society of glaucoma, for which there is said to be roughly three million latent cases in Japan, providing a venue for interaction between those suffering from glaucoma and their family members, and raising awareness about the early discovery of glaucoma. There are many glaucoma patients who are concerned by the fact that it can lead to blindness, and relying on primary doctors, we also seek useful information in treatment and interaction with fellow patients. Glaucoma requires ongoing treatment for life, and there is a significant number of patients who use three or four types of eye medicine. While the types of medicine that can be chosen has increased compared to the past, there are cases where patients have to change their medication due to side effects and where the choice of medications is limited due to an Yuriko Endo existing illness, so we hope to see an increase in options for treatment. Director, Glaucoma Friend Network (general incorporated association) In order to improve the environment that surrounds glaucoma patients going forward, we believe that cooperation between patient groups, medical institutions, and companies is essential. We have high hopes for the development of pharmaceuticals by ophthalmology specialists like Santen, and we hope we can work together on a wide range of initiatives. 22 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2019 Proactive Collaboration and half of FY2019. We are also conducting research into inherited retinal disease, for which the establishment of a Joint Research with External method of treatment is highly anticipated, with RIKEN, Partners for New Treatment the Kobe Eye Center, and Oxford Biomedica plc. Taking maximum advantage of the expertise and Through regenerative medicine, gene therapy, and the technical abilities we have gained through our specializafusion of IT and medicine among other things, medical tion in ophthalmology and taking a proactive approach technology is evolving beyond its traditional boundaries. to joint research, we aim to create new treatment In order to make a sustained contribution to QOL options to meet treatment needs around the world. improvement for people around the world through our value-providing products and services, we are focusing Joint research announced from 2018 our efforts on proactively using excellent technology and Conclusion of a comprehensive innovation from external sources and fusing it with the September agreement for joint research and ophthalmic expertise and technology we have cultivated 2018 development into pharmaceutical creation with PeptiDream Inc. to create new approaches. And that is why Santen is proactively carrying out joint Commencement of research and research and collaboration with research institutes and March/June development of gene therapy vectors for inherited retinal disease in collaboration companies that perform cutting edge research, such as 2019 with RIKEN, the Kobe Eye Center, and the Institute of Physical and Chemical Research (RIKEN), Oxford Biomedica plc. the Singapore Eye Research Institute (SERI), University Commencement of research and College London (UCL), Kobe Eye Center, PeptiDream development for photo-crosslinking for March Inc., and the Tokyo Medical and Dental University among pathological myopia in collaboration with 2019 Tokyo Medical and Dental University and others. An example being eye drops that suppress the FiberTech Co., Ltd. advancement of myopia in children (DE-127), which we are jointly developing with SERI, and in the first half of Further Information▶ P.26 Research and Development FY2019 it commenced Phase 2/3 trials while Phase 2 trials in Asia are planned to be completed in the second Message Great Expectations for Santen to Develop Safer and More Effective Treatments for Glaucoma The recent advancements in glaucoma treatment have gained a lot of interest in Italy and the rest of Europe. It is a common perception among the ophthalmology community that trabeculectomy is a highly risky procedure for glaucoma patients due to the level of care required following surgery. Santen has been at the forefront of offering new hope to our patients in an outstanding effort to develop alternative solutions to minimize the immediate post-operative complications related to lower anterior chamber, hypotonia and bleeding. Since introducing Santen’s minimally invasive surgical device, PRESERFLO MicroShunt, we have observed post-operative complications almost completely disappear. With these initial positive results, it is important that we continue to monitor the long-term effects of new techniques, like PRESERFLO MicroShunt, Aldo Caporossi M.D., Ph.D. and I believe Santen will play a fundamental role to validate these findings. By working together Professor, Institute of Ophthalmology, Catholic University of the Sacred Heart with surgeons, Santen’s therapies and devices have the potential to complement our ability to Director, Rome Policlinico Gemelli treat and radically safeguard glaucoma patients. ophthalmologic Clinic President, Italian Glaucoma Society, SIGLA Vice President, Italian Society of Corneal Transplants, SITRAC Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2019 23 Facts and Figures Financial Data Revenue, Core Operating Profit, Core Operating Profit Margin, and Overseas Sales to Revenue (¥ Billion) (%) 248.0 234.0 Strong 224.9 performance across the board saw revenue rise 199.1 4.0% year on 195.3 year to ¥234.0 billion, an all-time high. 33.0 31.4 29.5 27.4 27.0 22.1 19.9 20.2 20.6 20.6 Increases in SG&A expenses were absorbed by the growth in revenue, and core operating 48.2 51.0 profit hit an 43.1 45.4 39.7 all-time high. 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (forecast) (FY) Revenue Core operating profit Core operating profit margin Overseas sales to revenue Further Information▶ P.48 Eleven-Year Summary of Selected Financial Data About Core Basis Results Santen discloses financial information on a core basis to better express its recurring business performance. Financial information on a core basis excludes certain gains and expenses from IFRS results on a reported (full) basis. Non-Financial Data CO 2 Emissions Waste Emissions and Recycling Resources (t-CO 2 ) (t-CO 2 /billion yen) （t） 34,650 33,108 33,371 34,160 31,840 Santen reduced 3,219 3,274 3,178 Santen recycled 2,910 the amount of 2,702 2,814 2,888 91% of waste CO2 emissions 2,630 emitted in fiscal 2,501 per unit of 2,338 2018. revenue by 32% 214 compared to 166 fiscal 2014. 163 148 146 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) CO2 emissions (Japan) CO2 emissions (Overseas) CO2 emissions per unit of revenue Waste emissions Recycling resources Scope of aggregation: All operational bases in Japan, Tampere Plant, and Scope of aggregation: Shiga Product Supply Center, Noto Plant, Nara Research and Suzhou Plant Development Center, Shimoshinjo Office, Tampere Plant, and Suzhou Plant 24 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2019 R&D Expenses and R&D Expenses to Revenue ROE (¥ Billion) (%) (%) 28.0 R&D expenses 1 Santen is 24.4 23.8 22.6 22.8 are expected to working to 20.0 increase in line maintain and with steady enhance ROE by progress on the optimizing capital 13.0 development 11.1 efficiency. pipeline. 7.9 11.4 10.8 11.3 10.2 10.2 8.4 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (forecast) (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (forecast) (FY) R&D expenses R&D expenses to revenue 1. ROE increased due to the temporary gains associated with the transfer of Santen’s anti-rheumatic pharmaceutical business. Excluding this factor, core ROE was 12.4%. EPS Dividend per Share and Dividend Payout Ratio (¥) (¥) (%) 128.99 EPS increased due 49.1 44.1 30.0 33.0 Santen has to temporary gains 19.4 2 positioned the associated with stable return of 86.73 the transfer of 26 26 26 26 78.67 25 profits to Santen’s shareholders as anti-rheumatic 58.98 a key 52.96 pharmaceutical management business. priority. Excluding this factor, core EPS was ¥70.48. 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (forecast) (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (forecast) (FY) Dividend per share Dividend payout ratio 2. The dividend payout ratio decreased due to the temporary drop in gains associated with the transfer of Santen’s anti-rheumatic pharmaceutical business. Excluding this factor, the core dividend payout ratio was 35.5%. Total Water Usage Number of Employees (thousand m 3) (thousand m 3/billion yen) 559 4,073 519 552 545 Santen reduced 3,667 3,805 The number of 516 water usage per 3,463 employees unit of revenue 3,230 outside Japan has by 25% compared increased in line 2.7 2.8 to fiscal 2014. with the 3.2 2.4 2.4 development of the Asia and EMEA businesses. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) Industrial water Tap water Well water Water usage per unit of revenue Japan Asia EMEA North America Scope of aggregation: Shiga Product Supply Center, Noto Plant, Nara Research and Development Center, Shimoshinjo Office, Tampere Plant, and Suzhou Plant Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2019 25 Research and Development R&D Strategy As a pharmaceutical company specialized in In November 2018, we launched Eybelis as a treatment for ophthalmology, Santen seeks to preserve vision for patients glaucoma and ocular hypertension based on a world-first by addressing unmet needs and by developing products mechanism of action. We are pursuing development that have significant positive impact on the QOL of patients. activities globally so that we can better satisfy the unmet With an intense focus on patient QOL, we intend to address medical needs of glaucoma patients around the world. the needs of not only patients, but also other important 1. An approach of proactive use of compounds and technologies from outside stakeholders such as ophthalmologists, caregivers and the company in product development healthcare providers. 2. Multi-disciplinary research that links basic research, clinical research, and medical care and utilizes such findings for effective and efficient practical Our Medium-Term Plan (MTP2020) is focused on applications to contribute to healthcare advancement enhancing our product pipeline and developing new 3. Indicators that objectively measure and evaluate biometric information to treatment options. We have started to tackle challenging new identify medical states including the onset or severity of disease 4. Formulation technologies engineered to deliver the right amount of drug to the technologies to optimize treatment outcomes through a right target at the right time “Network Product Development”1 approach. In March 2019, Santen, together with RIKEN, a national institute, has commenced research and development of gene therapy gies products for the treatment of inherited retinal disease. This n olo De vic collaboration will also leverage the lentiviral vector platform of ch es Te Oxford Biomedica plc., with the aim of making new treatment l ta options available to patients. Another example is our gi Di partnership with PeptiDream Inc. to develop new treatments Glaucoma by utilizing cyclized/constrained peptides produced by y iomarkers PeptiDream’s proprietary Peptide Discovery Platform System Drug Del ivery S Technology. In order to improve the outcomes of clinical Retinal and Keratoconjunctival Uveal research and improve patient care, we are also conducting Disorders Disorders translational research2 to identify biomarkers3 and eventually is/B develop diagnostics. In addition, we are working to create Refractive os preservative-free formulations leveraging formulation ste Disorders gn technologies while developing drug-delivery systems4 and m ia better containers as a way of making these treatments more s D convenient and less burdensome for our patients. Pha rmaceuticals 26 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2019 Pipeline of Prescription Pharmaceuticals (Clinical Development) Glaucoma Dev. Code/ Phase NDA Generic Name Indication Original/Licensor Region Approved Dev. Name 1 2 3 Filed Tafluprost/ Glaucoma Co-development DE-111 Timolol Ocular with AGC Inc. China maleate hypertension U.S. Glaucoma Omidenepag Co-development Launched DE-117 isopropyl Ocular with Ube Industries Japan hypertension November 2018 Asia April 2019 Glaucoma ONO U.S. Phase 2b DE-126 Sepetaprost Ocular PHARMACEUTICAL hypertension CO., LTD. Japan Phase 2b DE-128 U.S. Phase 2/3 Glaucoma PRESERFLO Glaucoma Original implant device MicroShunt Europe Glaucoma Europe DE-130A Latanoprost Ocular Original Catioprost hypertension Asia Keratoconjunctival Disorders Epinastine Allergic Nippon Boehringer DE-114A hydrochloride conjunctivitis Ingelheim Co., Ltd. Japan September 2018 Launched Europe October 2018 DE-076C Ciclosporin Vernal Original Asia November 2018 Vekacia keratoconjunctivitis Others 5 December 2018 Retinal and Uveal Disorders U.S. Japan DE-109 Sirolimus Uveitis Original Europe Asia April 2015 Wet age-related TRACON DE-122 Carotuximab macular degeneration Pharmaceuticals, Inc. U.S. Phase 2a Refractive Disorders Singapore Health Japan Planning to start Phase 2/3 in the first half of fiscal 2019 in Japan. Services, Nanyang DE-127 Atropine sulfate Myopia Technological University Asia Others MD-16 Intraocular lens Cataract Oculentis BV Japan May 2019 5. Canada As of August 1, 2019 For details on the status of the development pipeline, please refer to “Main Products in Pipeline” on the Company’s website. https://www.santen.com Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2019 27 Business Review Japan Business Fiscal 2018 In the prescription ophthalmic pharmaceutical business, Japan Business Revenue ¥160.5 billion +1.1 % we are working toward achieving sustained revenue growth by using strategies for each disease to expand markets and sales, and by developing new businesses. In (¥ Billion) addition, we not only provide information on individual 200 160.5 166.1 products, but are also engaged in developing solutions that address the full range of ophthalmic treatment needs, from prevention and diagnosis, to treatment and post-ther100 apeutic follow-up. Our glaucoma treatment continuation program, developed to encourage glaucoma patients to continue treatment, has proven highly effective in early implementation and is currently being offered more widely. 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) Many patients also struggle to apply eye drops due to (forecast) shaky hands or for other various reasons. It has been ■Prescription Pharmaceuticals ■Over-the-Counter Pharmaceuticals reported that approximately 60% of glaucoma patients fail ■Medical Devices ■Others to accurately apply eye drops on the surface of the eye on their first try.3 With this in mind, we are working to provide Prescription Ophthalmic Pharmaceutical Market solutions that address the needs of patients and medical Scale/Santen Product Market Share1 professionals, including the launch of Just in, an eyedropMarket scale Market share per aid designed to improve the usability of eye drops. In November 2018, Santen also launched Eybelis, a glaucoPrescription Ophthalmic Pharmaceuticals Overall ¥365.2 billion 47.3% #1 ma treatment agent with a new mechanism of action. We Glaucoma Treatments 109.8 billion 30.1% #1 continually provide information on the product in an effort Corneal Disease Treatments 45.7 billion 61.5% #1 to ensure its proper use and maximize its value. Retinal Disorders Treatment2 93.6 billion 72.1% #1 In the OTC pharmaceutical business, Santen continues 52.2% #1 to focus on sales of mainstay products such as the Sante FX Anti-Allergy Ophthalmics 47.3 billion and Soft Santear series. At the same time, Santen Anti-Infective Ophthalmics 12.6 billion 35.1% #1 continues working to expand the availability of high-value, 1. Source: Copyright © 2019 IQVIA. Santen analysis based on high-end brands including the Sante Medical series and IMS-JPM 2018.4-2019.3. Reprinted with permission. the Sante Beautéye series. In December 2018, Santen 2. Including co-promoted product of Bayer Yakuhin, Ltd. (MAH) launched Well Wash Eye, a cleansing eye drop designed (Anti-VEGF Eylea) to meet the needs of patients suffering from allergic conjunctivitis, and in June 2019, we launched sales for Business Strategy Sante Well Vision, a supplement focused on aging eyes. Aiming to win the support of consumers as the #1 eye Santen is developing three businesses in the ophthalmic care company, Santen is also leveraging specialist and field in Japan: prescription pharmaceuticals, OTC pharmatechnical expertise cultivated in prescription ophthalmic ceuticals and medical devices. For over 20 years, we have medicines in its efforts to contribute to eye health through maintained a strong leading share in the prescription sales of OTC products and other activities. ophthalmic pharmaceutical market, emphatically gaining In the medical device business, Santen has been support from ophthalmologists in terms of customer developing its specialized intraocular lenses (IOLs) in the satisfaction. cataract surgery field. The Eternity series, which we have Under the Medium-Term Plan (MTP2020), we will take full sold since 2008, is based on the concept of offering a advantage of the strengths of these businesses with the goal high-quality lens with outstanding transparency, a lineup of transforming Santen into an ophthalmic “total solution” which we have expanded with consideration to visibility provider to achieve eye health for patients and consumers, and lens shape and design. In April 2019, we introduced creating new markets and responding to new needs. 28 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2019 and launched sales for Lentis Comfort from Oculentis BV Revenue from Mainstay Products Revenue Year on (¥ Billion) Year of the Netherlands, which offers a wider range of clear vision compared to mono-focal IOLs. In addition to Tapros 9.6 -0.6% developing new products, we unified the prescription Glaucoma ophthalmic pharmaceutical business with the organization Tapcom 2.5 +2.8% Treatments in April 2019, aiming to contribute even further to the ophthalmic surgical field. Cosopt 8.9 -21.8% 3. Koji Namiguchi, et. al., Atarashii Ganka 34 (9): 1257-1262 (2017) Hyalein 8.8 -18.7% Corneal Disease Business Performance Treatments Diquas 13.9 +8.7% Revenue from the prescription pharmaceuticals business Retinal Disorders increased 1.3% year on year in fiscal 2018 to ¥143.0 Eylea4 56.2 +9.0% Treatment billion. Revenue from mainstay products by sector is Anti-Allergy Alesion 19.4 +15.4% shown in the table at the right. Ophthalmics Revenue from OTC pharmaceuticals and medical devices Anti-Infective Cravit 3.2 -22.7% in fiscal 2018 were ¥13.9 billion (down 2.6% year on year) Ophthalmics and ¥2.6 billion yen (up 2.9% year on year), respectively. 4. Co-promoted product (Anti-VEGF Eylea) of Bayer Yakuhin, Ltd. (MAH) Offering Solutions that Address Ophthalmic Treatment Needs Glaucoma is a disease that narrows the field of vision by causing damage to the optic nerve, due to a rise in intraocular pressure and other factors. Because the optic nerve cannot be restored to a healthy state once it is damaged, lifetime treatment is required to reduce intraocular pressure. Santen developed Just in, an eyedropper aid to improve eye drop usability; the product was launched in April 2019. In-house tests conducted prior to the product’s release demonstrated a high application accuracy rate of 84% 5; we expect this will contribute to continuous treatment through improved patient adherence to eye drop dosage, and the reduction of side effects caused by the drug adhering around the eyes. 5. Based on visual determination by investigators Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2019 29 Asia Business Fiscal 2018 utilizing web channels to expand our information offerings. Current Asia Business Revenue ¥36.9 billion +19.3% coverage in China that provides advanced medical treatment which focuses primarily on tier 3 hospitals and expanding to a (¥ Billion) portion of tier 2 hospitals. We have also established a joint venture 50 42.3 in Chongqing to expand the supply of products to patients in 36.9 medical institutions other than these hospitals, and a production facility is also under construction. 25 Outside of China, we are striving to meet medical needs of each country in Asia through the effective investment of resources, while at the same time continuing to bring new products to market and engaging in activities designed to 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) further their penetration. To accurately capture and (forecast) respond quickly to the specific needs of customers in Business Strategy countries, Santen is promoting a shift away from our With a population of more than 4 billion, Asia is expected to see traditional model of using resellers to supply products, and the rapid progression of an aging society in 2020 and beyond. towards sales through our own local representatives. Despite a laudable high economic growth rate, the region includes Going forward, we will use the insights we have cultivated many countries where medical infrastructure is still developing, and in Japan and EMEA to enhance the level of our products the market for prescription ophthalmic pharmaceuticals in Asia is and services, with the goal of contributing to the developforecast to see high growth going forward. Santen has built high ment of eye health and ophthalmic medicine in Asia and customer satisfaction and a leading market share in China, Korea continuing to grow faster than the market. and other Asian countries based on a relationship of trust with its customers. As we prepare to expand into India and other Business Performance countries we have yet to enter, we will work to grow market share Revenue from the Asia business increased 19.3% year on year to establish a strong position as #1 in Asia. to ¥36.9 billion on a yen conversion basis in fiscal 2018. In China, which represents nearly 60% of Santen’s revenue in Growth continued primarily in China and Korea, driven mainly Asia, we are working to increase customer satisfaction by by progress in efforts to encourage the wider use of mainstay expanding the number of hospitals we cover, offering a broad products such as the dry eye treatment Hyalein and the product lineup and providing high-quality information. We are also anti-infective agent Cravit. We also maintained strong growth building trust relationships with customers by collaborating with rates throughout the ASEAN region. key opinion leaders (KOL) and professional societies, and are Meeting of the Santen Asia Scientific Steering Committee Held Santen established the Santen Asia Scientific Steering Committee (SSC), comprised of ophthalmologists who serve as KOL in the Asia Pacific region, with the goal of identifying unmet needs in ophthalmology throughout Asia and providing a forum for discussion of initiatives to address those needs. Participants include doctors from a variety of countries and regions, including Singapore, Korea, Thailand, Taiwan, Hong Kong, the Philippines, Indonesia and others. The SSC meeting, held in October 2018, focused on identifying and prioritizing unmet needs by disease field in the countries of Asia that should be addressed in the short and medium term. Working with local doctors, Santen will expand these activities as we pursue the development of ophthalmology in line with individual regional needs. 30 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2019 EMEA Business Fiscal 2018 preservative-free eye drops to meet the needs of EMEA Business Revenue ¥36.2 billion +3.3% patients in the EMEA region. In 2018, we began sales of PRESERFLO MicroShunt, a medical device for minimally (¥ Billion) invasive treatment of glaucoma. In the dry eye field, 50 Ikervis was launched in 2015 as a treatment for severe 36.2 38.8 keratitis stemming from dry eye, part of an effort to expand development in the regions where we undertake 25 business. In addition to expanding our product portfolio in the EMEA region, we are moving to strengthen our global product supply system. In 2018, we established an 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) operation center in Almere in the Netherlands which will (forecast) handle supply chain management for the entire EMEA Business Strategy region. We will continue working to offer a more reliable The EMEA market for prescription ophthalmic pharmaand efficient supply of products. ceuticals is the second largest after the U.S. The market is characterized by its diversity—each country in the Business Performance region has a different health system and different medical Revenue from the EMEA business increased 3.3% year treatment practices, and the maturity of each market on year to ¥36.2 billion in fiscal 2018. Focusing on also varies. Santen is working to align its business in the providing medical information and other efforts toward region with the specific characteristics and needs of activities that get closer to current needs on the ground, each country in conjunction with enhancing our organiwe worked to increase market penetration for products zational management systems. such as Taflotan/Saflutan and other glaucoma Santen markets several treatments for glaucoma in the treatments, and Ikervis. EMEA region, starting with Cosopt, acquired from Merck & Co., Inc. Taflotan/Saflutan, a key product driving our global business expansion, is available in approximately 40 countries in the region. We also offer Taptiqom, a combination ophthalmic solution launched in 2015, and Challenges in the Glaucoma Surgical Field PRESERFLO MicroShunt is a minimally invasive surgical device developed in the U.S. by InnFocus, Inc. (a subsidiary) for the treatment of primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG). This represents a new approach to treating glaucoma, an area Santen has been involved in for many years and is also a new challenge in the surgical market in the EMEA regions. In the EMEA business, we are providing opportunities to practice surgical techniques that use PRESERFLO MicroShunt for ophthalmologists specializing in glaucoma from various European countries. We continue to implement activities such as lectures by doctors with extensive surgical experience with PRESERFLO MicroShunt, demonstrations of the actual techniques, and question and answer sessions. Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2019 31 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) We will fulfill our responsibilities as a specialized ophthalmic pharmaceutical company, with the aim of further contributing to ophthalmic treatment around the world. • Guided by Santen’s Values – “Tenki ni sanyo suru” 1 , Santen Group strives to continue our contribution to society through improving QOL of patients around the world by CSR conducting business activities which provide valuable products and services. Basic Policy • In a highly ethical manner, we conduct business activities in compliance with applicable laws and international norms, and fulfill our social responsibilities, together with our business partners. 1. Santen’s original interpretation of a passage from chapter 22 of Zhongyong (The Doctrine of the Mean) by Confucius, meaning “exploring the secrets and mechanisms of nature in order to contribute to people’s health.” Contributing to Eye Health Worldwide issues concerning fair business, human rights, labor, occupational health and safety, the environment, good corporate and the Achievement of a Sustainable citizenship and stakeholder engagement. Society Through Business Activities Santen positions contributions to society through its business as Framework to Promote Further Enhanced the central focus of its social responsibility. As a specialized ophthalmic pharmaceutical company, we develop products that CSR Activities Across the Santen Group can fulfill unmet needs in ophthalmology, and provide products, Santen has established a CSR Committee, which comprises the services and information that can fulfill needs specific to Santen President and COO as Chair and corporate officers in individual countries and regions. We believe that our responsibilicharge of relevant divisions. Based on Santen’s Values, the CSR ty as a specialized ophthalmic pharmaceutical company requires Basic Policy, the Group’s strategies and various social issues, the us to improve access to treatment by providing affordable drugs CSR Committee sets CSR-related policies and targets for the to patients who otherwise could not receive ophthalmic entire Group and monitors the progress of our CSR activities. treatments for economic reasons, in addition to supporting the Under the leadership of the CSR Committee, we have the widespread adoption of ophthalmic treatments around the world Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) Committee in Japan, which including emerging countries, and develop orphan medicinal comprises the managers of our large-scale business facilities, products. In carrying out such business activities, we will comply including plants and research center, and three subcommittees with both legal regulations and international norms in a highly dedicated, respectively, to environmental conservation, health and ethical manner, fulfilling our social responsibilities by addressing safety, and fire and disaster risk management. Conceptual • Comply with laws, regulations, and fair business practices Diagram Fair Business applicable to the countries and territories where we conduct Fair business activities, and work against corruption in all its forms. Business • Respect and protect the human rights of all people, Human Rights including patients and employees. Labour, Human Occupational Labour, • Secure the rights and safety of people engaged in our Rights Health & Safety business, promote their better health, and maintain and Occupational Santen’s Values Health & Safety improve their workplace environments. Contribute to the QOL of patients and consequently • Work on preventing environmental pollution, reducing to society Environment environmental loads, and utilizing resources effectively. Good • Strive to protect and preserve the planet in a sustainable manner. Environment Corporate Business Citizen Good • Act as a good corporate citizen to develop medical care and Activities welfare in the ophthalmic field through our business, and to Corporate build trust relationships with related communities and Citizen contribute to their development. Stakeholder Engagement • Actively disclose information about our business activities Stakeholder and have meaningful dialogues, to understand the Engagement expectations of stakeholders and reflect them in our efforts. 32 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2019 Initiatives to Address Priority Issues Participating in the United Nations Global To enhance our global CSR activities, we have been currently Compact focusing on the four priority issues noted below. In October 2017, we announced that Promotion of Group-Wide Mutual Education Santen had joined the UN Global We establish and conduct group-wide mutual educational Compact. Santen intends to support and programs so that all Santen employees can share the same practice the ten principles of the UN Global understanding of the Santen Group’s essential values and Compact in the four areas of human rights, philosophy, represented by Santen’s Values and the Santen labour, environment, and anti-corruption, Code of Practice, and act in a highly ethical manner. which are in line with Santen’s Values and Promotion of Diversity the Santen Code of Practice, in pursuit of a sustainable society. With the belief that human resource diversity is essential to a robust organization, we promote diversity based on a full Efforts to Achieve Sustainable Development understanding of the realities in the countries and regions Goals (SDGs) where we operate, and work to further enhance our working environment to ensure that diverse personnel can demonSanten will continue to contribute to society through its business strate the full extent of their abilities. of providing valuable products and services while striving as a specialized company in the field of ophthalmology to improve Efforts to Address Environmental Issues access to pharmaceuticals. We will contribute to the achievement To take on environmental issues such as climate change, we of the SDGs adopted by the United Nations, such as Goal 3, to are currently working to achieve the environmental targets set “Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages.” for FY2020. We have also begun to set new medium-term targets for 2030 from a longer-term perspective. Involvement of Business Partners in CSR Promotion In addition to requiring both ourselves and our suppliers to ensure social responsibility in the areas of legal compliance, ethical conduct, environmental preservation and employee health and safety, we are working to build sound relationships with those suppliers. At present, we primarily monitor the status of environmental and health and safety measures implemented by our major suppliers, including suppliers of active pharmaceutical ingredients and contract manufacturers. Going forward, we will broaden the scope of suppliers subject to monitoring, and extend the scope of our monitoring to social issues in general, including human rights and labor issues. Topics Santen Included in All Four ESG Investment Indexes Selected by GPIF Japan’s Government Pension Investment Fund (GPIF), the world’s largest institutional investor, has selected four environmental, social and governance (ESG) indexes for ESG investment in Japanese companies. These include the FTSE Blossom Japan Index, the MSCI Japan ESG Select Leaders Index, the MSCI Japan Empowering Women Index, and the S&P/JPX Carbon Efficient Index2. Santen has been selected as a constituent stock in all four of these indexes. Since 2016, we have also been selected four years in a row for inclusion in the SNAM Sustainability Index, established by Sompo Japan Nipponkoa Asset Management Co., Ltd. 2. (1) FTSE Blossom Japan Index: a broad index incorporating overall ESG considerations based on FTSE Russell, an investment index calculator wholly owned by the London Stock Exchange, (2) MSCI Japan ESG Select Leaders Index: a similar broad index based on MSCI, a U.S. provider of investment indices, (3) MSCI Japan Empowering Women Index (WIN): Another MSCI index targeting companies that excel in gender diversity, (4) S&P/JPX Carbon Efficient Index: Developed by S&P Dow Jones Indices of the U.S. It targets companies that excel in carbon efficiency and other factors. Further Information▶ CSR Website https://www.santen.com/en/csr Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2019 33 CSR Activities through Business Santen aims to contribute to society by providing valuable products and services. Stable Supply of R&D to Fulfill Unmet Medical Needs Ophthalmic Solutions Santen will promote R&D focused on glaucoma, retinal and uveal To provide a high quality, stable disorders, which can cause blindness, and keratoconjunctival disorders, supply of ophthalmic solutions to over which can be said to lack sufficient treatment globally. We are also 60 countries and regions around the working hard to develop new treatment options in refractive disorders. world, Santen has built a global production and supply structure and New Treatment Options that Lead is building a structure to deal with to Improved QOL for Patients expansion to even more countries and the future diversification of products Santen is working to develop new medical treatment options, such as other than ophthalmic solutions. the world’s first anti-glaucoma agent with a mechanism of action and glaucoma surgery devices to reduce the burden placed on patients. Meticulous Attention to Quality Initiatives on Pharmaceuticals for Santen maintains safety, efficacy and Orphan Diseases homogeneity in the manufacturing Papilock Mini, an orphan medicinal product for treatment of vernal process in our main area of keratoconjunctivitis, is on sale in Japan. In October 2018, vernal ophthalmic solutions by insisting on keratoconjunctivitis treatment DE-076C (product name: Verkazia) was launched water with high purity equivalent to in Europe, and applications will be made in sequence for Asia and other areas. that used in injections, high purity air equivalent to that used in surgical Further Information▶ P.20 Feature: Contributing to Global Ophthalmology by Developing environments, and the training and New Drugs and Treatment Options P.26 Research and Development development of people to conduct our rigorous quality management. Research and Development Product Supply Quality Compliance Prevention of Medical Mistakes To prevent confusion between different ophthalmic solutions, Santen is working to make improvements including clearly identifiable packaging and information labels on containers. For example, for ophthalmic solutions available in various concentrations with the same active ingredients, we provide highly visible information about the concentration on the shrink label covering the solution container as well as on the top of the cap. Examples of labeling for ophthalmic solutions available in various concentrations with the same active ingredients (Side and top surface labels) 34 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2019 Production Site for Improving Initiatives to Enhance and Access to Pharmaceuticals Develop Ophthalmic Treatment To provide quality prescription ophthalmic pharmaceuticals Santen is continuing initiatives to enhance at appropriate prices to even more patients, Santen diagnosis and medical treatment in countries and founded Chongqing Santen Kerui Pharmaceutical Co., regions around the world, such as offering training Ltd., a joint venture with China’s state-owned Chongqing for young ophthalmologists to create environments Kerui Pharmaceutical (Group) Co., Ltd., in August 2016 for patients to receive optimal medical treatment. and is currently constructing a manufacturing plant. In Asia, we conduct workshops with patients in attendance to enhance young doctors’ knowledge and skills in diagnosis and treatments. Support for Academic Associations Raising Disease Awareness and Joint Sponsorship of Seminars We will continue to raise disease awareness and encourage To enhance the medical treatment environment for patients, correct recognition and understanding of ophthalmic Santen supports academic associations in Japan and disorders. Through these efforts, we strive to increase QOL overseas, such as the World Ophthalmology Congress for as many patients as possible with early identification and (WOC), the Asia-Pacific Academy of Ophthalmology (APAO), treatment. In Asia, we support lectures by ophthalmic and the Japanese Ophthalmological Society, and hold joint facilities for the general public on glaucoma and free seminars with those academic associations in which we screenings, while in Europe we work together with the World provide medical professionals with information about the Glaucoma Association to disseminate information to the latest research and treatment trends in the field of media. In Japan, we provide medical institutions with ophthalmology. Further Information▶ P.17 Topics program packages to support continued medical treatment. Sales and Marketing Measures against Counterfeit Medicines Obtaining Information for and Other Quality Compliance Measures Pharmacovigilance Santen is promoting measures to ensure traceability1 and address Good Santen has established internal procedures to Distribution Practice (GDP), aiming to ensure pharmaceutical product quality ensure that safety information such as side during storage and transportation, manage products appropriately, and take effects is reported quickly and accurately as measures against counterfeits. In Japan, by the end of March 2021 we will soon as it is obtained by the department in display barcodes on product boxes and transportation packaging indicating charge of safety management, and then shared product codes, serial numbers and expiration dates. with the relevant departments in Santen. We 1. Traceability: The ability to track and identify the distribution channels for have also built a system for pharmacovigilance pharmaceutical products from manufacture to consumption. globally to ensure safety and reliability. Further Information▶ CSR Website https://www.santen.com/en/csr Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2019 35 CSR Activities Santen will carry out its social responsibilities in a highly ethical manner and in compliance with laws and international norms. Fair Business Labour, Occupational Health & Safety Initiatives to Prevent Corruption Promoting Diversity The Santen Code of Practice, which sets out how individual Santen is working to build an organization that enables employees are to conduct themselves clearly prohibits bribery employees with different professional and cultural and other such activities as follows: “We do not engage in any backgrounds to maximize their abilities, regardless of conduct regarded as bribery or corruption, whether directly or change in life-stage, gender, nationality or presence of through a third party, that would violate the applicable laws and disability, with full respect for the diverse values of our regulations of the relevant country, including those applicable to employees, and to develop human resources who are other countries.” We conduct regular training to promote able to carry out our work. We also provide our employemployee understanding about prevention of corruption in all its ees with equal opportunities for compensation without forms, including extortion, bribery, and conflict of interest. There discrimination. The ratio of women in the Company is at were no incidences of corruption in all its forms including bribery, 42%, and the ratio of female managers is at 33% as of nor cases requiring legal measures be taken in fiscal 2018. March 31, 2019. We have also accelerated globalization of businesses, with the ratio of overseas employees at Supplier Management 51% as of March 31, 2019, and the number of executive We aim to fulfill our social responsibilities throughout the directors employed is also increasing. entire production and supply of pharmaceuticals, including our suppliers. In fiscal 2018, we found no issues after Number of Employees by Region conducting checks of 28 major suppliers, including pharmaceutical ingredient suppliers and outsourced manufacturers. 229 232 213 738 175 Human Rights 162 669 651 660 588 Initiatives on Respecting Human Rights 1,105 810 907 In accordance with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 557 713 the ILO Conventions, the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, other international norms, and the spirit behind them, Santen believes in the importance of respecting the rights of each of its employees and acting with the highest 1,923 1,915 1,975 2,015 2,001 ethical standards, and is working to diffuse understanding of these issues through training. In October 2017, we joined the United Nations Global Compact and declared our commitment to support and respect human rights protection, and our 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) commitment not to be complicit in any manner of human rights Japan Asia EMEA North America abuses. The Santen Code of Practice firmly declares, “We do not engage in discrimination against or harassment of individuals based on their nationality, race, skin color, religion, Health and Safety Management creed, sexual orientation, age, education, family background, We implement a health and safety management system place of birth, disability, health problems, social position, etc. aiming to achieve zero occupational accidents. In fiscal We respect individual personalities and do not engage in 2018, there were no work-related fatalities across all regions sexual, moral or any other kind of harassment in the (including contract and temporary employees). workplace.” As global expansion brings increasing diversity to our workforce, we are working to ensure each employee is familiar with and can put our beliefs into practice by translating the Santen Code of Practice into 13 languages. We also carried out global compliance e-learning to promote understanding during an awareness month held in November 2018. 36 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2019 Environment Good Corporate Citizen Environmental Management Initiatives as a Good Corporate Citizen Santen has implemented an environmental management In addition to enhancing welfare and medical advancements in system aimed at realizing a low-carbon, recycling society and the ophthalmic field through our business, Santen is also we are working to reduce our emissions of greenhouse gas working to build trust with the communities associated with the (CO2) and waste, as well as our water usage and so forth. The ophthalmic field and contribute to development, in accordance Noto and Shiga operational sites have acquired certification in with Santen’s Values. Santen provides grants to research ISO 14001 for international standards environmental manageinstitutions such as universities and academic associations, ment systems, and conduct environmental audits. The Suzhou mainly in the field of ophthalmology, and also makes ongoing Plant in China also acquired ISO 14001 certification and began donations to organizations involved in activities to raise disease operations in February 2019. In fiscal 2018, the Group had no awareness and prevent loss of vision. In fiscal 2018, the total environmental accidents that impact the local community, soil, amount of consolidated donations was ¥617 million, which is groundwater, or other aspects. There was no deviation of laws, equivalent to 1.3% of the core operating profit. ordinances, etc. that required reporting to the authorities. Support for Improving Access to Climate Change Countermeasures Healthcare in Developing Countries The volume of greenhouse gas (CO2) emissions in fiscal Santen supports the training of those working in ophthal2018 in terms of emissions per unit of revenue on a mology in developing countries, helping to alleviate a consolidated basis was 146 tons per billion yen, down shortage of ophthalmologists and train ophthalmologists in 32% from fiscal 2014. Our Scope 3 1 emissions in Japan China. We also provide free pharmaceuticals, intraocular for fiscal 2018 per unit of revenue on a non-consolidated lenses, and other supplies to organizations working to basis were 989 tons per billion yen, up 0.4%, which is promote ophthalmic treatment in developing countries. about the same level as in fiscal 2016. 1. CO2 emissions across the supply chain including factors such as purchase Supporting Sports for the Visually Impaired of raw materials, product distribution, and employee transportation. Santen supports sports for people with visual impairment to increase understanding of ophthalmic disorders and to foster Reducing Our Environmental Impact an awareness of patient perspectives among employees. In Final waste disposal volume in fiscal 2018 per unit of Japan, Santen has partnered with the NPO Japan Blind revenue on a consolidated basis was 1.1 tons per billion Football Association in activities which allow visually-impaired yen, an increase of 366% from fiscal 2014 due to the children who have few opportunities to exercise to engage in one-off effects caused by the disposal of residual devices sports, as well as supporting diversity education programs for from the sale of the old headquarters and Osaka Plant. elementary and junior high school students. Conservation of Water Resources and Biodiversity Water usage in fiscal 2018 in terms of usage per unit of revenue on a consolidated basis was 2.4 thousand m3 per billion yen, a decrease of 25% from fiscal 2014. We also engaged in forest protection activities that help to preserve biodiversity. Per Unit of Consolidated Revenue FY2014 Rate of FY2018 change CO2 emissions 214 146 -32% (ton/billion yen) Santen Pharmaceuticals Blind Soccer Junior Training Camp 2019 Volume of waste for 0.3 1.1 +366% final disposal (ton/billion yen) Further Information▶ CSR Website https://www.santen.com/en/csr Water usage 3.2 2.4 -25% (thousand m3/billion yen) Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2019 37 Corporate Governance Santen will continue to enhance and strengthen its corporate governance in order to promote business activities based on Santen’s Values. Overview of the Corporate Governance System Basic Views on Corporate Governance wide range of experience and knowledge. Santen will also ask for their opinions from the view of strengthening the Santen believes that it is vital to upgrade and strengthen function of monitoring Santen’s management. Furtherthe corporate governance system in order to achieve and more, Santen has taken some specific steps such as enhance corporate value, and thus, returns to establishing the Corporate Strategy Committee, the shareholders. Nominating Committee and the Executive Compensation Santen has adopted a “Company with a Board of Committee, which are all voluntary committees made up of Company Auditors” system as defined in Japan’s CompaInside and Outside Directors, and introducing a corporate nies Act. Santen will continuously be working to upgrade officer system to strengthen management and improve the and strengthen corporate governance by making the most speed of business execution. Santen will go forward with of the current system. the aim of improving management transparency and First, the function of the Board of Directors is to make objectivity. decisions concerning the vital execution of the business as Corporate Auditors audit the Board of Directors and well as to monitor the execution of the business by the executive sections by utilizing the Corporate Auditor’s Group management and Directors. Santen will operate with a or collaborating with the Internal Auditing Group, bringing focus on swift and appropriate managerial decision-makinto view not only the legality but also the appropriateness ing. Santen expects its Outside Directors to be actively and effectiveness of the performance of their duties, and involved in the Board of Directors in decision-making on Santen will endeavor to strengthen their function. individual managerial issues, taking advantage of their Santen Internal Governance System (As of June 2019) General Meeting of Shareholders Appointment / Removal Appointment / Removal Appointment / Removal Board of Corporate Auditors Board of Directors Accounting Auditor Audit Judge Appropriateness of Accounting Audit Report (Cooperation) Recommendation Corporate Strategy Committee1 Appointment / Removal Cooperation Audit Nominating Committee1 Accounting Audit Supervision Executive Compensation Committee1 Representative Director, Chairman & CEO Representative Director, President & COO Internal Auditing Group CSR Committee Compliance Committee Internal Audit Risk Management Committee Divisions and Subsidiaries 1. These committees are voluntary and not part of the statutory “Company with a Nominating Committee, etc., System” under Japan’s Companies Act. 38 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2019 Status of Management Supervision Structure Outside Directors, and conducts interviews with executives and site visits at Group companies in Japan and abroad. Santen’s Board of Directors features well-balanced knowlFurthermore, the voluntary committees serve a variety of edge, experience and the ability to effectively fulfill its roles and purposes respectively: the Corporate Strategy Committee responsibilities with a structure that satisfies both diversity and aims to deliberate on key strategic issues such as business an appropriate number of members. Moreover, Santen has strategies; the Nominating Committee aims to deliberate on appointed Corporate Auditors with the expertise necessary to the selection of candidates for Directors and submit properly perform audits from an academic, legal, and recommendations therefor, as well as to provide advice in accounting perspective. To promote meaningful discussions at response to consultations concerning the selection of Board of Director Meetings, materials for the meetings and the candidates for Corporate Officers and Corporate Auditors; relevant information are provided to the Outside Directors and the Executive Compensation Committee sets compensaOutside Corporate Auditors in advance followed by sufficient tion policies and designs the compensation system (such explanations concerning the background, purpose and details as setting performance targets, determining the rationality of the agenda of said meetings. of performance-based compensation, appropriateness of To improve the functions of the Board of Corporate Auditors, standards and composition of remuneration, the amount of each Corporate Auditor regularly attends Board of Directors compensation in accordance with the system, etc.) meetings, exchanges opinions with Chairman, President and Corporate Governance Meeting Composition (As of August 2019) Position Name Board of Board of Corporate Corporate Strategy Nominating Executive Compensation Directors Auditors Committee Committee Committee Akira Kurokawa ○ ○ ○ Shigeo Taniuchi ○ ○ ○ ○ Takeshi Ito ○ ○ Directors Kanoko Oishi Outside Director ○ ○ ○ ○ Yutaro Shintaku Outside Director ○ ○ Kunihito Minakawa Outside Director ○ ○ ○ ○ Masashi Murata ○ ○ Corporate Yasuyuki Miyasaka Outside Corporate Auditor ○ ○ Auditors Hirofumi Yasuhara Outside Corporate Auditor ○ ○ Yumiko Ito Outside Corporate Auditor ○ ○ Meetings held (April 2018 – March 2019) 17 times 10 times 4 times 5 times 8 times ：Chairpersons of voluntary committees Attendance of Outside Directors and Outside Corporate Auditors (from April 2018 to March 2019) Attendance at Board Attendance at Board of Position Independent Officers of Directors Meetings Corporate Auditors Meetings Kanoko Oishi 17 out of 17 meetings − Outside Yutaro Shintaku 17 out of 17 meetings − Directors 14 out of 14 meetings Kunihito Minakawa − (Appointed June 2018) 14 out of 14 meetings 7 out of 7 meetings Yasuyuki Miyasaka (Appointed June 2018) (Appointed June 2018) Outside Corporate Hirofumi Yasuhara − (Appointed June 2019) − (Appointed June 2019) Auditors Yumiko Ito − (Appointed June 2019) − (Appointed June 2019) Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2019 39 Reasons for Selecting the Current experience in managing companies or a specialized understanding of corporate management. They must also satisfy Corporate Governance System the criteria of independence established by the Company. Santen’s governance is based on the corporate organizational The Nominating Committee also discusses the recommenform of a “Company with Board of Corporate Auditors” as dation of candidates for Corporate Auditor positions. Those defined in Japan’s Companies Act. This structure enables the who have been recommended as a candidate will be Company to have objective audits by Corporate Auditors who determined as actual nominees at the Board of Directors after are in independent positions from the execution of business by obtaining consent from the Board of Corporate Auditors. Upon the Directors. Furthermore, to secure transparency, objectivity consent by the Board of Corporate Auditors, the guiding and appropriateness of management, Santen believes that principles for judgement are that each nominee must have making the most of systems such as the voluntary committees credentials such as having ethical values and a sense of on business strategy, nomination of officers, executive fairness, in addition to an understanding of Santen’s Values compensation, etc. will contribute to the strengthening of the and the underlying ethos, while being experienced in current corporate governance system. As a material manageperforming high-level duties in any field. For Outside Corporate ment matter, Santen commits to continuously reviewing the Auditors, each nominee must have credentials such as being improvement and strengthening of said system. experienced in academic, legal, accounting, or management as well as an abundance of experience and expertise in their Policy for Appointing Directors and field. Outside Corporate Auditors must also satisfy the criteria Corporate Auditors of independence established by the Company. For Directors, the Nominating Committee deliberates on the candidates for Director positions. Based on the results of Ensuring Independence of Outside deliberations, the committee then recommends the Directors and Outside Corporate Auditors candidates to the Board of Directors, which determines the Santen has made a concerted effort to nominate Outside actual nominees. In terms of deliberation by the Nominating Directors and Corporate Auditors, with Outside Directors Committee, the guiding principle for the selection of Inside serving on its Board since June 2003. In a bid to strengthen Directors is that the nominees must have credentials such as and enhance management supervision functions, a number superb expertise, ability to participate in decision-making from of highly independent Outside Directors and Outside a managerial standpoint, and supervise execution of duties, in Corporate Auditors have been appointed. All of its Outside addition to an understanding of Santen’s Values and the Directors and Outside Corporate Auditors satisfy the underlying ethos. Furthermore, Outside Directors must have requirements of independent officers as defined by the credentials such as being capable of contributing to improvCompanies Act and the Tokyo Stock Exchange, and are ing the quality of discussions in the Board of Directors, with registered with the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Key Milestones in Strengthening Corporate Governance 2000 2005 2010 2015 2020 Fiscal 2003-2005 Fiscal 2006-2010 Fiscal 2011-2013 Fiscal 2014-2017 Fiscal 2018-2020 Medium-Term Plan Medium-Term Medium-Term Medium-Term Medium-Term Medium-Term Management “Hitomi 21” Management Plan Management Plan Management Plan Management Plan Management Plan Plan ●1990 Long-term business vision formulated to mark centenary ●2010 Long-term strategic vision toward 2020 formulated Strengthen Outside From 2003 From 2005 management Directors 1 individual 3 individuals supervision Strengthen Corporate 1999 Introduced decision-making officer system and business execution Corporate 1999 Management Advisory functions Strategy 2005 Established Committee established Committee Nominating Strengthen 2005 Established Committee management transparency Executive and soundness 1999 Compensation Compensation 2003 Established Committee established Committee For details on the criteria of independence and the reasons for selecting Outside Directors or Outside Corporate Auditors, please refer to Corporate Governance Report on the Company’s website. https://www.santen.com 40 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2019 Director and Corporate Auditor Compensation Santen is not a “Company with a Nominating Committee, certain performance evaluation period, as well as a “Restricted etc.,” as defined in Japan’s Companies Act, however it has Stock-Linked Remuneration system (RS),” stock-linked remuneraset up an Executive Compensation Committee as one of its tion with a transfer restriction that is lifted by satisfying conditions voluntary committees. This committee appoints an Outside such as holding the target Director position continuously for a Director as the chair with a majority of Outside Directors, certain period. PSU is decided through a stock issuance rate on a and makes recommendations and deliberates on policies scale of 0% to 200% that responds to revenue growth rate, core for compensation received by Directors, Corporate Auditors, operating profit margin, and full ROE related to achievement of and Corporate Officers. The Executive Compensation targets in MTP2020. Assuming basic compensation is at a ratio of Committee has determined the basic policies as follows. 1, annual bonuses and stock-linked remuneration are typically at 1. Ensure effectiveness that contributes to Santen’s 0.25 and 0.5 respectively. sustainable growth and enhancement of mid-and-long Compensation for Outside Directors, who are independent term corporate value to enable them to be engaged in the from business execution, consists only of fixed monthly achievement of Santen’s vision and the medium-term compensation, decided in reference to the results of pharmamanagement plan with high motivation; ceutical company benchmarks. An allowance is paid to the 2. Deepen the sharing of values with shareholders; Outside Director who serves as the chair of a voluntary 3. Objectiveness is secured through a highly transparent committee, including the Executive Compensation Committee. process for making decisions on remunerations to ensure high accountability to stakeholders; Corporate Auditor Compensation 4. Provide a competitive level of compensation capable of Compensation for Corporate Auditors consists only of fixed recruiting outstanding human resources; and monthly compensation, decided in reference to the results 5. Appropriately encourage the Target Directors to fulfill their of pharmaceutical company benchmarks and in accordance respective functions in executing duties and supervising. with recommendations from the Executive Compensation Committee through consultations with the Corporate Director Compensation Auditors. Performance-linked remuneration is not paid Director compensation (excluding Outside Directors) consists of a stemming from the perspective of encouraging proper fixed basic compensation, an annual bonus tied to Company demonstration of Corporate Auditors’ auditing functions. performance and individual evaluation, and stock-linked remuneration. Of these, stock-linked remuneration was introduced Process to Determine Compensation following passage of a resolution at the Annual General Meeting of For Director compensation, payment totals for each different Shareholders held on June 26, 2018 with the purpose encouragtype of compensation and individual payment amounts are ing Directors of Santen, excluding Outside Directors, to proactivedetermined within the scope of each compensation as per ly engage in achieving Santen’s vision and strategy and to resolutions of the General Meeting of Shareholders by the promote the further sharing of value with shareholders so that it Representative Director as part of the Board of Directors, and contributes to Santen’s continuous growth and the improvement upon deliberation by Executive Compensation Committee. of corporate value on a mediumto long-term basis. Stock-linked The total amount of Corporate Auditor compensation and remuneration comprises of “Performance Share Units (PSU),” a individual payments is determined pending consultation with performance-linked stock remuneration system that is linked to Corporate Auditors and within the scope of Corporate the achievement rate of numerical targets or the like during a Auditor compensation limits as per resolutions of the Comparison of General Meeting of Shareholders. Compensation Structures Annual Stock-linked remuneration system Santen also established the Executive Compensation Committee incentives mediumto long-term incentives as an advisory body of the Board of Directors so that it can Annual strengthen the capabilities of the supervisory functions of the Basic compensation PSU RS bonus Board of Directors and fulfill accountability, along with guaranteeing independence and objectivity in deliberations and determinations Performance-linked remuneration on basic policies on compensation for the Board of Directors, the 1 0.25 0.25 0.25 compensation system, levels of compensation, and other matters. For details on resolutions by the General Meeting of Shareholders on Director and Corporate Auditor compensation, please refer to the Corporate Governance Report on the Company’s website. https://www.santen.com Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2019 41 Limits on Director and Corporate discussions about risks by creating materials that clarified risks associated with important matters in terms Auditor Compensation of regular monitoring of investment projects and At the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders held on important investment projects decided at previous Board June 26, 2018, a resolution was passed that limited of Directors meetings and provided explanations for compensation for Directors (excluding Outside Directors) those materials. to ¥600 million and ¥100 million per year in regard to The evaluation for fiscal 2018 determined that the those Directors applicable for the PSU system or the RS Board of Directors is functioning efficiently. Furthermore, system. At that same Annual General Meeting of the Board of Directors was found to have facilitated a Shareholders, a resolution was passed that compensaculture of incorporating the opinions of Outside Directors tion for Outside Directors is limited to ¥60 million per and Outside Corporate Auditors, and is engaging in free year. At the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders and open discussions. By having the Outside Directors held on June 27, 2006, it was decided that compensaand Outside Corporate Auditors visit business locations tion for Corporate Auditors would be limited to ¥80 inside and outside Japan and participate in operating million per year. division meetings, the Company is providing them with information that fosters deeper understanding of business activities. Analysis and Evaluation Further improvement of the Board of Director’s role and of the Board of Directors’ functions is integral to sustainable growth in our Effectiveness businesses. We recognize that points we should strengthen are focused on monitoring of strategic projects and ascertaining capital costs in particular, and For the purpose of improving the roles and functions of the we strive to maximize shareholder and corporate value Board of Directors, Santen assesses the overall effectiveby further deepening the quantity of these discussions. ness by implementing surveys for Directors and Corporate Moreover, as Santen increases the diversity of the Auditors, and individual interviews for Outside Directors and organization and employees in line with globalization of Corporate Auditors. Based on those results, we carry out business development, we are considering how to evaluations and improvements each year toward effectiveprovide opportunities to clearly understand each ness of the entire Board of Directors. organization’s activities and the comprehension and With “further strengthening discussions from the permeation of Santen’s Values for the Board of Directors. viewpoint of risk management” recognized as an issue for improvement in fiscal 2017, Santen enhanced Director and Corporate Auditor Compensation (Fiscal 2018) Total Compensation by Category (Millions of Yen) Total Compensation Number of Position (Millions of Yen) Fixed Eligible People1 Compensation Annual Bonus PSU RS Directors (Excluding Outside Directors) 247 169 29 25 23 4 Corporate Auditors 27 27 − − − 1 (Excluding Outside Corporate Auditors) Outside Directors 43 43 − − − 4 Outside Corporate Auditors 36 36 − − − 4 1. The number of applicable Directors is the total number of Directors who were appointed during this fiscal year (including those who resigned within the fiscal year). For details, please refer to the Basic Policy on Corporate Governance and the Corporate Governance Report on the Company’s website. https://www.santen.com 42 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2019 Addressing the Corporate Compliance Consulting & Reporting Desk Governance Code Santen has made it easier for all employees, including contract workers and temporary workers, to consult and Santen implements all of the principles of the Corporate report on suspicious actions related to compliance by Governance Code of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. establishing internal consulting and reporting desks that In November 2015, Santen stated the Basic Policy on respond in various languages in its operating countries Corporate Governance based on the five General and regional bases. Additionally, Santen has established Principles of the Corporate Governance Code (Ensuring external helplines through external third-parties such as the Right and Equality of Shareholders, Cooperation with lawyers that receive reports anonymously in nearly all of Stakeholders Other Than Shareholders, Ensuring the countries where it develops business. Incoming Appropriate Disclosure of Information and Transparency, consultations and reports are appropriately investigated Responsibilities of the Board of Directors, etc., Dialogue and addressed in a sincere manner, while also being with Shareholders and Other Persons), and discloses the relayed to levels of management regularly. The Complipolicy on its corporate website. ance Rules that are applied to all Group companies stipulate that there must be adequate measures in place to protect internal whistleblowers in each region. Internal Controls Development of the Internal Control System Example of Compliance Consulting In accordance with Japan’s Companies Act and the & Reporting Desk in Japan Ordinance of Enforcement of the Companies Act, Santen has passed a resolution regarding the development of a Employees Supervisor/Manager system to ensure appropriate operations (Basic Policy on Internal Control). The operating divisions regularly report Compliance Committee member on the status of the development and implementation of the system to the Board of Directors, while the Board of Consulting/ Internal consulting desk Directors gives instructions and makes course correcReporting tions as necessary, in order to qualitatively enhance the External expert development and implementation of the internal control system and expand its scope. Compliance Global Compliance Framework Santen has established a Compliance Committee to promote compliance activities that address globalization. We regularly hold meetings of the Global Compliance Committee, which bring together executives in charge of regions and functional organizations, and Global Meetings of Compliance Administrators, which are attended by in-house compliance administrators in charge of regions and functional organizations. In fiscal 2018, the Santen Group was not involved in any serious law violations nor litigation. For details, please refer to the Corporate Governance Report on the Company’s website. https://www.santen.com Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2019 43 Risk Management Santen has designated crisis report regulations for officers measures to prevent a recurrence. Furthermore, the Risk and employees to report to the Crisis Management Management Division serves as a system to manage risks in Secretariat directly if there is a possibility that an incident normal circumstances, and conducts risk assessments could become a major crisis. At the Risk Evaluation every two years to comprehensively ascertain risks facing Committee, which acts in accordance to these crisis the Group as a whole, including corruption that infringes on management regulations, committee members discuss risk human rights or the use of bribery in addition to risks in management policies and countermeasures for when a risk production and product quality. In the assessment impleincident occurs. Depending on the degree of impact on the mented in collaboration with an outside investigative Company, an incident may trigger the operation of the Crisis company in fiscal 2017, it was confirmed that there were no Response Committee headed by a representative director, major compliance violations nor misconduct, and that the which will coordinate efforts to minimize any losses or corporate culture and environment to prevent such damages and ensure a quick recovery, and institutes incidents was largely satisfactory. Key Risks and Status of Response Matters Assessed Specific Anticipated Risks Status of Response • Risk of decline in compliance In conjunction with the progress on the globalization of business activities, we are working awareness due to an inadequate on a global level to enhance, develop and administer internal controls, strengthen Global global compliance framework compliance, and develop a risk management promotion framework in each country. Compliance Please refer to Page 36 for details on initiatives to prevent corruption and Page 43 for details on compliance. •Risk of stagnation in global production Having a stable supply of products is one of the missions that pharmaceutical and supply companies should fulfill for patients. Santen has positioned strengthening the global • Risk of delayed deliveries due to product supply framework as one of its important strategies, and the Company is an increasingly complex supply working to expand the countries it provides products to and construct a framework to chain and inaccurate demand respond to a future increase in various products aside from ophthalmic solutions. In Production/ forecasts addition to establishing processes and systems to ensure a stable supply, Santen is Supply related continuously assessing the current state of affairs and addressing issues through initiatives such as monitoring planning and execution, and evaluating risks. Recently, Santen has also been undertaking initiatives globally in manufacturing and supply systems for quality products that respond to strict regulations related to logistics in Europe, as well as visualizing and centrally managing inventory management, including production plans. • Risk of decline in reliability of Santen is committed to carrying out appropriate R&D, and to ensuring the reliability of R&D-related data R&D data. The Company also addresses the risks of data manipulation or fabrication, as well as the concealment of facts. Along with establishing an implementation process and procedure manual for R&D, we are continually providing training and education to improve the reliability of R&D Research and data to employees involved in R&D. Another division specializing in guaranteeing reliability also conducts quality checks of R&D data. Development In addition, the Research Ethics Committee, which includes outside medical experts related and lawyers, checks the appropriateness of research from an ethical perspective. We also thoroughly inform employees about the obligation to report safety information, and we have put in place a system to gather such information. When selecting contract research organizations (CRO) and other vendors, we choose organizations that satisfy certain criteria, and make sure that vendors comply with the processes and procedures set forth by Santen. •Risk of information leaks and/or In recent years, there has been an increase in cyberattacks and other information system stoppage due to a cyberattack, security threats. We are working to protect personal information and other information, etc. and to strengthen our system to ensure that the systems remain in operation. As an information management framework, Santen conducts both technological and physical protection as well as training, based on internal rules for information security Information and document management. Security We have formulated a roadmap for countermeasures based on information security related risk analysis that also includes threats other than IT related threats, and each year we review the status of achieving those countermeasures and make necessary revisions. In addition to continuously incorporating the latest security technologies and trends, we regularly conduct vulnerability audits in order to grasp the current situation and promote countermeasures. We have put in place procedures and a BCP to make the IT system more robust, and minimize impacts in the case of an emergency. 44 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2019 Messages from Outside Director and Outside Corporate Auditor Contributing to Eye Health for All! This will be my fifth year as an Outside Director for Santen. People often address me as an executive officer for Santen, and what has especially left an impact on me is the immense trust that ophthalmologists have in Santen and its strong branding power. With Santen’s Values embodied in the phrase “Tenki ni sanyo suru” and the mission to contribute to the well-being of patients, their loved ones and consequently to society, Santen is clearly committed to results. I believe that Santen’s Values and Mission Statement will be the keys to its future. While trust from ophthalmologists is a great asset, it is necessary to keep patients at the center of the Company’s Kanoko Oishi Outside Director focus. We must not forget the existence of those who are likely to become patients in the future. There are many people in the world who do not or cannot receive treatment even though they suffer from an eye disease, or do not realize they have an eye disease. We strive to capture these missed treatment opportunities and achieve eye health for everyone. We want to convey and carry out all sorts of activities related to global eye health to close this treatment gap, and I believe that these activities will increase Santen’s value in a sustainable manner. As an Outside Director, I will continue to support Santen as it takes on challenges while contributing to appropriate decision-making for the benefit of patients and other stakeholders. Toward Healthy Growth for the Company I was appointed as an Outside Corporate Auditor at the shareholders meeting in June 2019. As a package of reforms in regulations for corporate governance has recently been put into place in Japan, there has been a significant uptick in social concerns regarding fairness and transparency in the operations of listed companies. In this context, it is necessary for us Corporate Auditor to report to the stakeholders what we have found through the audit more promptly, accurately, and precisely than ever. My first impression of Santen was, as shown in its name, its commitment to Santen’s Values. Santen’s Vision which embodies these Values has also clearly stated that it contributes to society in Hirofumi Yasuhara Outside Corporate Auditor the field of ophthalmology. With activities that coincide with Santen’s Values and Mission, the Company is demonstrating steady financial results, particularly with a focus on overseas markets. However, as it successfully expands its business, every company inevitably faces various risks of internal control, managerial inefficiency, and ineffectiveness, including operational misconduct. I hope I will contribute to Santen overcoming these challenges so that it will stay on the right track toward becoming a “Specialized Pharmaceutical Company with a Global Presence.” Addressing Diversity and Governance For a company to grow sustainably, it must work to make an even greater contribution to solving social issues through its business. As the number of eye disease patients worldwide continues to grow, Santen’s efforts to accelerate its global expansion as a specialized company in the ophthalmology field not only answers society’s demand for further contributions to ophthalmology worldwide, but will lead to improved corporate value. I believe the key to this global expansion is addressing diversity. Patient needs are regionally diverse, and regulations and social norms vary with different historical and cultural backgrounds. Diversity Yumiko Ito Outside Corporate Auditor needs to be recognized and handled appropriately in terms of compliance and other so-called “defensive” aspects of business activity. I think that Santen has a corporate culture that recognizes and incorporates diversity. The Board of Directors consists of individuals with various experiences and specializations, and the members of the Board share a belief that candid discussions lead to the creation of new value. At Santen, for which addressing diversity will be the key to success, I will actively participate as an Outside Corporate Auditor in discussions of the Board, thereby playing a part in the company’s global growth and the contributions it can make to ophthalmology worldwide. Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2019 45 As of August 2019 Directors Corporate Auditors ■1 Akira Kurokawa ■2 Shigeo Taniuchi ■3 Takeshi Ito Chairman and Chief Executive Officer President and Chief Operating Officer Director, Executive Corporate Officer 1977 Joined the Company Head of North America Business Head of Japan Business, Head of Japan Sales and Marketing Division 1977 Director, General Manager, Head of the Office of 1996 Joined the Company Head of Sales and Marketing Division – OTC Products Sales and Marketing Division, Prescription 2015 Corporate Officer, Head of Santen Europe (currently 1982 Joined the Company Pharmaceuticals EMEA), and President of Santen Holdings EU B.V. 2012 Corporate Officer, Head of Prescription Pharmaceuticals Sales 2001 Corporate Officer, Head of Sales and Marketing 2016 Senior Corporate Officer, Head of Santen Europe Department, Sales and Marketing Division, Prescription Pharmaceuticals Division, Prescription Pharmaceuticals (currently EMEA), and President of Santen Holdings EU B.V. 2014 Senior Corporate Officer, Head of Japan Sales and 2004 Senior Corporate Officer, Head of Sales and 2017 Director, Senior Corporate Officer, Head of Santen Marketing, Prescription Pharmaceuticals Marketing Division, Prescription Pharmaceuticals EMEA, President of Santen Holdings EU B.V. 2016 Executive Corporate Officer, Japan Business, Head of Japan Sales 2006 President & COO 2018 President & COO and Marketing, Prescription Pharmaceuticals 2008 President & CEO Head of Asia Division, President & CEO of Santen Inc. 2017 Director, Executive Corporate Officer, Japan Business, Head of 2018 Chairman & CEO (incumbent) 2019 President & COO Japan Sales and Marketing, Prescription Pharmaceuticals Head of North America Business (incumbent) 2019 Director, Executive Corporate Officer, Head of Japan Business Head of Japan Sales and Marketing Division, Head of Sales and Marketing Division – OTC Products (incumbent) ■4 Kanoko Oishi ■5 Yutaro Shintaku ■6 Kunihito Minakawa Outside Director Outside Director Outside Director 1993 Partner, McKinsey & Company, Inc. 2010 Representative Director, President and CEO 2010 Outside Audit & Supervisory Coard Member 2000 Established Mediva, Inc. Terumo Corporation Ricoh Leasing Company, Ltd. Chief Executive Officer (incumbent) 2017 External Director, J-OIL MILLS, Inc. (incumbent) 2013 Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Ricoh Company, Ltd. 2000 Established Seinan Mediva Co., Ltd. (currently, Seeds 1 Co., Ltd.) 2017 Outside Director of the Company (incumbent) 2017 Outside Director, Sony Corporation (incumbent) Representative Director (incumbent) 2017 Corporate Advisor, Terumo Corporation 2018 Outside Director of the Company (incumbent) 2004 Established Platanus Medical Corporation, COO (incumbent) 2018 Outside Director, Kubota Corporation (incumbent) 2010 Outside Director, Astellas Pharma Inc. 2018 Visiting Professor, Business Administration, 2015 Outside Director of the Company (incumbent) Hitotsubashi University Business School 2015 Outside Director, Ezaki Glico Co., Ltd. (incumbent) 2019 Project Professor, Business Administration, 2015 Outside Director, SURUGA bank Ltd. Hitotsubashi University Business School (incumbent) 2016 External Director, Shiseido Company, Limited (incumbent) ■7 Masashi Murata ■ 8 Yasuyuki Miyasaka ■ 9 Hirofumi Yasuhara ■10 Yumiko Ito Standing Corporate Auditor Outside Corporate Auditor Outside Corporate Auditor Outside Corporate Auditor 1999 Joined the Company 2010 Director of Risk Management and 2008 Director, PanaHome Corporation 2007 Executive Officer, Microsoft Co., Ltd. 2007 General Manager, Corporate Quality Assurance Office of IFRS (currently, Panasonic Homes Co., Ltd.) (currently Microsoft Japan Co., Ltd.) Planning Group Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu LLC 2012 Representative Director, PanaHome Corporation 2013 Director, Executive Officer, Sharp Corporation 2011 Chief Administrative Office (CAO) 2017 Established Yasuyuki Miyasaka Certified (currently, Panasonic Homes Co., Ltd.) 2014 Director, Executive Managing Officer Santen Inc. Public Accountant Office and assumed 2014 Senior Audit & Supervisory Officer, Automotive & Sharp Corporation 2014 General Manager, Corporate the Head thereof (incumbent) Industrial Systems Company, Panasonic Corporation 2019 Established Ito Law Office Auditor’s Group 2018 Outside Director, ITOCHU-SHOKUHIN 2015 Senior Audit & Supervisory Board Member Representative (incumbent) 2016 Standing Corporate Auditor Co., Ltd. (incumbent) Panasonic Corporation 2019 Independent Director, Kobe Steel, Ltd. (incumbent) (incumbent) 2018 Outside Corporate Auditor of the 2019 Outside Corporate Auditor of the Company 2019 Outside Corporate Auditor of the Company Company (incumbent) (incumbent) (incumbent) 46 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2019 Corporate Officers (Not including directors who also serve as corporate officers) 11 Naveed Shams, M.D., Ph.D. ■ ■ 12 Kazuo Koshiji 13 Akio Kimura ■ 14 Satoshi Suzuki ■ Senior Corporate Officer Senior Corporate Officer Senior Corporate Officer Senior Corporate Officer Chief Scientific Officer (CSO) Corporate Administration Global Product Supply Head of Corporate Development Head of Global Research and Development Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Head of Manufacturing Division Division Head of Finance and Administration Head of China Business Division 15 Kenji Morishima ■ 16 Noriaki Yamamoto ■ 17 Takahiro Morita ■ 18 Frank Binder ■ Corporate Officer Corporate Officer Corporate Officer Corporate Officer Head of Pharmaceutics & Pharmacology Department Chief Information Officer (CIO) Head of Sales Department Head of Supply Chain Division Head of Information Systems Division 19 Luis Iglesias ■ 20 Ken Araki ■ 21 Isao Takahashi ■ 22 Miki Fujima ■ Corporate Officer Corporate Officer Corporate Officer Corporate Officer Head of Santen EMEA Business Head of Global Business Development Head of Asia Business Head of Human Resources Division Department 5 3 1 2 4 6 15 13 11 12 14 16 9 7 8 10 21 19 17 18 20 22 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2019 47 Eleven-Year Summary of Selected Financial Data Millions of yen FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 JGAAP JGAAP JGAAP JGAAP For the year: Net sales/Revenue ¥101,619 ¥110,594 ¥110,812 ¥114,416 Cost of sales 35,947 34,710 34,437 35,385 Selling, general and administrative expenses2 31,720 32,121 32,415 35,073 Research and development expenses 18,458 14,123 13,221 17,225 Operating proﬁt 15,494 29,640 30,739 26,732 Core operating proﬁt — — — — Income taxes/Income tax expenses 5,701 9,887 9,741 10,630 Net income/Net proﬁt for the year 10,123 18,723 21,333 17,161 Core net proﬁt for the year — — — — Capital expenditures/Payments for acquisition of property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets 2,953 1,315 1,651 3,281 Depreciation and amortization 4,210 3,421 2,976 2,949 At year-end: Total assets ¥151,012 ¥166,878 ¥184,801 ¥198,801 Net assets/Total equity 125,369 137,603 156,404 164,861 Liabilities 25,643 29,275 28,397 33,940 Per share data (yen and U.S. dollars): EPS (Net income basic/Basic earnings)3 ¥ 119.08 ¥ 220.10 ¥ 249.71 ¥ 196.96 Core EPS3 — — — — Equity/Equity attributable to owners of the company3,4 1,472.32 1,614.08 1,793.15 1,887.81 Cash dividends, applicable to the period3 16.00 16.00 18.00 20.00 Cash ﬂows: Net cash ﬂows from (used in) operating activities ¥ 11,849 ¥ 26,110 ¥ 17,768 ¥ 21,483 Net cash ﬂows from (used in) investing activities (5,619) (829) (7,676) (10,273) Net cash ﬂows from (used in) ﬁnancing activities (11,373) (6,753) (1,570) (8,559) Free cash ﬂow5 8,896 24,795 16,117 18,202 Interest coverage ratio (times) 165.5 558.1 488.5 1,285.0 Financial data: ROE (Return (Net income) on equity/Return (Net proﬁt for the year) on equity attributable to owners of the company) (%)4 8.0 14.3 14.5 10.7 Core ROE (%) — — — — ROA (Return (Net income/Net proﬁt for the year) on total assets) (%) 6.6 11.8 12.1 8.9 Equity ratio/Equity attributable to owners of the company ratio (%)4 82.9 82.3 84.5 82.8 Debt equity ratio (Interest-bearing debt to equity ratio/Interest-bearing debt to equity attributable to owners of the company ratio) (times)4 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 PER (Price earnings ratio) (times) 23.0 12.7 13.3 17.9 Dividend payout ratio (%) 67.2 36.3 36.0 50.8 Issued shares (thousands) 86,916 86,992 87,053 87,147 Number of employees 2,690 2,756 2,867 3,053 1. U.S. dollar amounts have been translated from yen, solely for the convenience of the reader, at the rate of ¥110.99 to U.S.$1.00, the exchange rate prevailing on March 29, 2019. (This date was selected because March 30, 31, 2019 was a non-business day for ﬁnancial institutions.) 2. Research and development expenses are excluded under J-GAAP. 3. The Company conducted a ﬁve-for-one share split of ordinary shares on the effective date of April 1, 2015. Per share data other than cash dividends, applicable to the period for ﬁscal 2013 and the subsequent ﬁscal years are calculated under the assumption that the share split took effect at the beginning of ﬁscal 2013. Cash dividends, applicable to the period have been retrospectively adjusted to reﬂect the impact of the share split. 4. Equity is calculated by deducting stock subscription rights from net assets under J-GAAP. 5. Free cash ﬂow = Net cash ﬂows from operating activities minus capital payments for acquisition of property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets 48 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2019 Thousands of U.S. dollars1 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 JGAAP IFRS IFRS IFRS IFRS IFRS IFRS IFRS ¥119,066 ¥146,260 ¥161,831 ¥195,291 ¥199,096 ¥224,942 ¥234,026 $2,108,535 41,501 57,353 56,373 72,829 74,966 86,378 90,764 817,769 36,164 41,642 48,893 59,406 62,193 68,788 71,273 642,158 16,720 16,862 17,477 19,990 22,786 24,398 23,759 214,061 24,681 29,878 35,374 80,180 32,479 38,691 45,098 406,322 — 30,403 39,088 43,067 39,687 45,378 48,230 434,547 9,071 10,643 11,831 26,097 8,331 4,000 11,174 100,679 16,521 19,718 24,032 53,373 21,724 35,261 31,943 287,798 — 19,813 25,948 29,163 29,125 33,458 36,092 325,185 3,609 5,879 66,440 9,092 9,500 9,937 8,332 75,071 3,291 2,841 6,958 9,338 9,882 10,896 10,969 98,831 ¥199,641 ¥237,640 ¥304,200 ¥355,399 ¥358,906 ¥388,463 ¥391,186 $3,524,516 165,132 187,210 211,779 260,009 255,929 287,557 292,572 2,636,023 34,509 50,430 92,421 95,391 102,977 100,905 98,614 888,493 ¥ 195.81 ¥ 47.78 ¥ 58.18 ¥ 128.99 ¥ 52.96 ¥ 86.73 ¥ 78.67 $ 0.71 — 48.01 62.82 70.48 70.99 82.29 88.89 0.80 1,998.44 452.43 511.14 627.78 628.09 702.54 728.97 6.57 20.00 20.00 22.00 25.00 26.00 26.00 26.00 0.23 ¥ 9,943 ¥ 26,686 ¥ 25,386 ¥ 22,525 ¥ 10,843 ¥ 42,843 ¥ 32,894 $ 296,368 (4,596) (7,847) (61,709) 37,052 (28,201) (8,259) (2,935) (26,444) (21,557) (7,954) 28,960 (24,066) (28,657) (17,631) (28,107) (253,242) 6,334 20,807 (41,054) 13,433 1,342 32,906 24,562 221,298 3,037.8 2,855.4 309.8 230.9 206.6 1,573.6 4,330.0 10.0 11.1 12.0 22.6 8.4 13.0 11.1 — 11.2 13.0 12.4 11.3 12.4 12.5 8.3 8.9 8.9 16.2 6.1 9.4 8.2 82.6 78.8 69.6 73.2 71.1 73.6 74.4 0.0 0.0 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.0 0.0 22.7 19.2 30.1 13.1 30.4 19.8 21.0 51.1 41.9 37.8 19.4 49.1 30.0 33.0 82,469 82,583 82,653 414,192 406,173 406,848 399,782 3,050 3,072 3,230 3,463 3,667 3,805 4,073 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2019 49 Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. and Its Consolidated Subsidiaries Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars1 FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 Revenue ¥224,942 ¥234,026 $2,108,535 Cost of sales (86,378) (90,764) (817,769) Gross proﬁt 138,564 143,262 1,290,766 Selling, general and administrative expenses (68,788) (71,273) (642,158) Research and development expenses (24,398) (23,759) (214,061) Amortization on intangible assets associated with products (6,740) (6,988) (62,961) Other income 417 4,028 36,287 Other expenses (364) (172) (1,552) Operating proﬁt 38,691 45,098 406,322 Finance income 1,004 901 8,114 Finance expenses (434) (2,881) (25,958) Proﬁt before tax 39,261 43,117 388,477 Income tax expenses (4,000) (11,174) (100,679) Net proﬁt for the year 35,261 31,943 287,798 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax Items that will not be reclassiﬁed subsequently to proﬁt or loss Remeasurements of deﬁned beneﬁt plans 284 9 79 Net gain or loss on ﬁnancial assets measured at fair value 5,867 (3,289) (29,636) through other comprehensive income Items that may be reclassiﬁed subsequently to proﬁt or loss Foreign currency translation adjustments (686) 794 7,156 Other comprehensive income 5,464 (2,486) (22,402) Total comprehensive income for the year 40,725 29,456 265,396 Proﬁt attributable to Owners of the company 35,247 31,954 287,899 Non-controlling interests 14 (11) (100) Net proﬁt for the year 35,261 31,943 287,798 Total comprehensive income attributable to Owners of the company 40,648 29,519 265,958 Non-controlling interests 77 (62) (561) Total comprehensive income for the year ¥ 40,725 ¥ 29,456 $ 265,396 Yen U.S. dollars1 Earnings per share FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 Basic earnings per share ¥ 86.73 ¥ 78.67 $ 0.71 Diluted earnings per share 86.42 78.43 0.71 1. U.S. dollar amounts have been translated from yen, solely for the convenience of the reader, at the rate of ¥110.99 to U.S.$1.00, the exchange rate prevailing on March 29, 2019. (This date was selected because March 30, 31, 2019 was a non-business day for ﬁnancial institutions.) 50 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2019 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. and Its Consolidated Subsidiaries As of March 31 Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars1 Assets FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment ¥ 29,706 ¥ 31,699 $ 285,605 Intangible assets 134,495 131,110 1,181,281 Financial assets 35,775 30,044 270,691 Deferred tax assets 2,264 1,771 15,958 Other non-current assets 2,855 1,819 16,388 Total non-current assets 205,095 196,444 1,769,924 Current assets Inventories 30,636 35,235 317,457 Trade and other receivables 78,654 84,618 762,394 Other ﬁnancial assets 472 267 2,408 Other current assets 4,322 3,826 34,469 Cash and cash equivalents 69,283 70,796 637,863 Total current assets 183,367 194,742 1,754,592 Total assets 388,463 391,186 3,524,516 Equity and liabilities Equity Equity attributable to owners of the company Share capital 8,032 8,252 74,345 Capital surplus 8,657 8,661 78,031 Treasury shares (11) (1,131) (10,193) Retained earnings 249,225 258,659 2,330,471 Other components of equity 19,921 16,461 148,307 Total equity attributable to owners of the company 285,823 290,900 2,620,961 Non-controlling interests 1,734 1,672 15,063 Total equity 287,557 292,572 2,636,023 Liabilities Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities 21,244 23,520 211,911 Net deﬁned beneﬁt liabilities 1,804 1,992 17,945 Provisions 1,367 1,255 11,303 Deferred tax liabilities 12,909 9,389 84,597 Other non-current liabilities 1,380 1,795 16,172 Total non-current liabilities 38,704 37,951 341,928 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 29,743 32,079 289,023 Other ﬁnancial liabilities 14,404 12,116 109,167 Income tax payable 7,656 7,185 64,739 Provisions 1,508 717 6,457 Other current liabilities 8,890 8,566 77,180 Total current liabilities 62,201 60,663 546,565 Total liabilities 100,905 98,614 888,493 Total equity and liabilities ¥388,463 ¥391,186 $3,524,516 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2019 51 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. and Its Consolidated Subsidiaries Fiscal 2017 Millions of yen Other components of equity Net gain or loss on ﬁnancial assets measured Share Capital Treasury Retained Remeasurements of at fair value through capital surplus shares earnings deﬁned beneﬁt plans other comprehensive income Balance at April 1, 2017 ¥7,792 ¥8,417 ¥(10) ¥223,283 ¥— ¥ 9,470 Comprehensive income Net proﬁt for the year 35,247 Other comprehensive income 284 5,867 Total comprehensive income for the year — — — 35,247 284 5,867 Transactions with owners Issuance of new shares 240 240 Acquisition of treasury shares (1) Dividends (10,563) Changes for equity of subsidiary with non-controlling interests Share-based payments Other 1,257 (284) (973) Total transactions with owners 240 240 (1) (9,306) (284) (973) Balance at March 31, 2018 ¥8,032 ¥8,657 ¥(11) ¥249,225 ¥— ¥14,364 Millions of yen Other components of equity Foreign currency Total equity translation Subscription attributable to owners Non-controlling adjustments rights to shares Total of the company interests Total equity Balance at April 1, 2017 ¥5,332 ¥825 ¥15,628 ¥255,110 ¥819 ¥255,929 Comprehensive income Net proﬁt for the year — 35,247 14 35,261 Other comprehensive income (749) 5,401 5,401 63 5,464 Total comprehensive income for the year (749) — 5,401 40,648 77 40,725 Transactions with owners Issuance of new shares (68) (68) 412 412 Acquisition of treasury shares — (1) (1) Dividends — (10,563) (10,563) Changes for equity of subsidiary with non-controlling interests — — 838 838 Share-based payments 218 218 218 218 Other (1,257) — — Total transactions with owners — 150 (1,107) (9,934) 838 (9,096) Balance at March 31, 2018 ¥4,583 ¥975 ¥19,921 ¥285,823 ¥1,734 ¥287,557 52 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2019 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. and Its Consolidated Subsidiaries Fiscal 2018 Millions of yen Other components of equity Net gain or loss on ﬁnancial assets measured Share Capital Treasury Retained Remeasurements of at fair value through capital surplus shares earnings deﬁned beneﬁt plans other comprehensive income Balance at April 1, 2018 ¥8,032 ¥8,657 ¥(11) ¥249,225 ¥— ¥14,364 Comprehensive income Net proﬁt for the year 31,954 Other comprehensive income 9 (3,289) Total comprehensive income for the year — — — 31,954 9 (3,289) Transactions with owners Issuance of new shares 152 152 Acquisition of treasury shares (148) (13,911) Retirement of treasury stock (12,791) 12,791 Transfer to retained earnings from capital surplus 12,791 (12,791) Dividends (10,581) Share-based payments 67 (1) Other 853 (9) (844) Total transactions with owners 220 4 (1,120) (22,519) (9) (844) Balance at March 31, 2019 ¥8,252 ¥8,661 ¥(1,131) ¥258,659 ¥— ¥10,230 Millions of yen Other components of equity Foreign currency Total equity translation Subscription attributable to owners Non-controlling adjustments rights to shares Total of the company interests Total equity Balance at April 1, 2018 ¥4,583 ¥975 ¥19,921 ¥285,823 ¥1,734 ¥287,557 Comprehensive income Net proﬁt for the year — 31,954 (11) 31,943 Other comprehensive income 845 (2,435) (2,435) (51) (2,486) Total comprehensive income for the year 845 — (2,435) 29,519 (62) 29,456 Transactions with owners Issuance of new shares (173) (173) 132 132 Acquisition of treasury shares — (14,059) (14,059) Retirement of treasury stock — — — Transfer to retained earnings from capital surplus — — — Dividends — (10,581) (10,581) Share-based payments — 67 67 Other (853) — — Total transactions with owners — (173) (1,025) (24,442) — (24,442) Balance at March 31, 2019 ¥5,428 ¥802 ¥16,461 ¥290,900 ¥1,672 ¥292,572 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2019 53 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. and Its Consolidated Subsidiaries Fiscal 2018 Thousands of U.S. dollars1 Other components of equity Net gain or loss on ﬁnancial assets measured Share Capital Treasury Retained Remeasurements of at fair value through capital surplus shares earnings deﬁned beneﬁt plans other comprehensive income Balance at April 1, 2018 $72,365 $77,998 $(101) $2,245,468 $— $129,413 Comprehensive income Net proﬁt for the year 287,899 Other comprehensive income 79 (29,636) Total comprehensive income for the year — — — 287,899 79 (29,636) Transactions with owners Issuance of new shares 1,374 1,374 Acquisition of treasury shares (1,335) (125,336) Retirement of treasury stock (115,244) 115,244 Transfer to retained earnings from capital surplus 115,244 (115,244) Dividends (95,334) Share-based payments 606 (5) Other 7,682 (79) (7,604) Total transactions with owners 1,980 33 (10,092) (202,895) (79) (7,604) Balance at March 31, 2019 $74,345 $78,031 $(10,193) $2,330,471 $— $92,173 Thousands of U.S. dollars1 Other components of equity Foreign currency Total equity translation Subscription attributable to owners Non-controlling adjustments rights to shares Total of the company interests Total equity Balance at April 1, 2018 $41,289 $8,784 $179,487 $2,575,218 $15,624 $2,590,841 Comprehensive income Net proﬁt for the year — 287,899 (100) 287,798 Other comprehensive income 7,617 (21,941) (21,941) (461) (22,402) Total comprehensive income for the year 7,617 — (21,941) 265,958 (561) 265,396 Transactions with owners Issuance of new shares (1,557) (1,557) 1,190 1,190 Acquisition of treasury shares — (126,671) (126,671) Retirement of treasury stock — — — Transfer to retained earnings from capital surplus — — — Dividends — (95,334) (95,334) Share-based payments — 601 601 Other (7,682) — — Total transactions with owners — (1,557) (9,239) (220,214) — (220,214) Balance at March 31, 2019 $48,906 $7,227 $148,307 $2,620,961 $15,063 $2,636,023 1. U.S. dollar amounts have been translated from yen, solely for the convenience of the reader, at the rate of ¥110.99 to U.S.$1.00, the exchange rate prevailing on March 29, 2019. (This date was selected because March 30, 31, 2019 was a non-business day for ﬁnancial institutions.) 54 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2019 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. and Its Consolidated Subsidiaries Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars1 FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 Cash ﬂows from operating activities Net proﬁt for the year ¥ 35,261 ¥ 31,943 $ 287,798 Depreciation and amortization 10,896 10,969 98,831 Impairment losses 150 — — Gain on disposal of non-current assets — (3,592) (32,366) Finance expenses (income) (327) (700) (6,305) Income tax expenses 4,000 11,174 100,679 Decrease (increase) in trade and other receivables (7,116) (6,303) (56,787) Decrease (increase) in inventories (1,435) (5,000) (45,047) Increase (decrease) in trade and other payables 5,697 2,445 22,030 Increase (decrease) in provisions and net deﬁned beneﬁt liabilities 285 (518) (4,666) Increase (decrease) in accounts payable-other 961 1,181 10,638 Increase (decrease) in long-term accounts payable-other 17 1,885 16,986 Other 728 2,116 19,064 Subtotal 49,117 45,601 410,854 Interest received 145 187 1,688 Dividends received 598 521 4,694 Interest paid (27) (8) (68) Income tax paid (6,990) (13,408) (120,800) Net cash ﬂows from (used in) operating activities 42,843 32,894 296,368 Cash ﬂows from investing activities Payments for acquisition of investments (565) (931) (8,390) Proceeds from sale of investments 2,879 2,156 19,425 Payments for acquisition of property, plant and equipment (3,984) (5,470) (49,280) Proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment — 4,338 39,089 Payments for acquisition of intangible assets (5,953) (2,863) (25,791) Other (636) (166) (1,498) Net cash ﬂows from (used in) investing activities (8,259) (2,935) (26,444) Cash ﬂows from ﬁnancing activities Proceeds from long-term loans — 567 5,104 Repayments of long-term loans (8,316) (4,098) (36,922) Purchase of treasury stock (1) (14,124) (127,258) Capital contribution from non-controlling interests 838 — — Dividends paid (10,559) (10,580) (95,323) Other 408 128 1,156 Net cash ﬂows from (used in) ﬁnancing activities (17,631) (28,107) (253,242) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 16,953 1,852 16,682 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of period 52,282 69,283 624,228 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 48 (338) (3,047) Cash and cash equivalents at the end of period ¥ 69,283 ¥ 70,796 $ 637,863 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2019 55 Corporate Information / Stock Information As of March 31, 2019 Corporate Headquarters Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Composition of Shareholders Grand Front Osaka Tower A, By number of shares By number of shareholders 4-20 Ofuka-cho, Kita-ku, Osaka 530-8552, 0.4% Financial institutions Japan 0.0% 0.2% Securities firms URL: https://www.santen.com 2.9% Bank Treasury stock 7.2% 0.7% TEL: +81-6-6321-7000 (Main) 28.6% Other institutions Other institutions 1.1% 3.5% +81-6-4802-9360 (PR and IR) 46.9% Trust banks Securities firms Foreign Foreign investors E-MAIL: ir@santen.com investors 4.2% 95.2% Life and Individual investors Established 1890 non-life insurance 0.5% Paid-in Capital ¥8,252 million Other financial 0.2% Institutions Number of Employees 4,073 (non-consolidated: 1,812) Treasury stock 8.5% Individual investors Number of Shares Issued 399,782,354 Major Shareholders Number of Shareholders 18,247 Number of Percentage of Stock Exchange Listings Tokyo Name shares held ownership Thousands Japan Trustee Service Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account) 33,546 of shares 8.4% Ticker Code 4536 STATE STREET BANK AND TRUST COMPANY Transfer Agent Osaka Corporate Agency Division, 505223 32,027 8.0 Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (Trust 6-3, Fushimi-cho 3-chome, Chuo-ku, Account) 28,960 7.3 RBC IST 15 PCT LENDING ACCOUNT CLIENT Osaka 541-8502, Japan ACCOUNT 10,786 2.7 Nippon Life Insurance Company 10,662 2.7 MUFG Bank, Ltd. 10,605 2.7 ONO PHARMACEUTICAL Co.,Ltd. 9,307 2.3 Japan Trustee Service Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account 5) 7,438 1.9 Trust & Custody Services Bank.,Ltd.as trustee for Eisai Co.,Ltd. Retirement Benefit Trust Account re-entrusted by Mizuho Trust and Banking Co.,Ltd 6,863 1.7 Japan Trustee Service Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account 9) 5,958 1.5 Stock Price Range (Yen) Monthly basis 2,500 2,000 TOPIX (Tokyo stock price index) 1,500 1,000 500 0 2014/4 2015/4 2016/4 2017/4 2018/4 2019/4 (Year/Month) Trading Volume (Thousands of shares) Monthly basis 48,000 36,000 24,000 12,000 0 2014/4 2015/4 2016/4 2017/4 2018/4 2019/4 (Year/Month) Notes: 1. Calendar years. Yearly High and Low Prices 2. Stock prices for 2019 are for the period to the end of June. 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 3. Santen conducted a five-for-one share split of ordinary shares on the effective date of April 1, 2015. Figures for stock price and trading volume High (yen) 2,163 2,064 1,946 2,061 1,797 from before the share split have been adjusted using the share split ratio. Low (yen) 1,262 1,251 1,343 1,509 1,450 56 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2019 Business Bases Group Companies Location Location Claire Co., Ltd. Santen Pharmaceutical (China) Co., Ltd. Santen Business Services Co., Ltd. Japan Santen Pharmaceutical Sales and Marketing (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. China Santen Eye Care Co., Ltd. Chongqing Santen Kerui Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Santen Holdings U.S. Inc. Santen Pharmaceutical Korea Co., Ltd. Korea Santen Inc. Taiwan Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Taiwan Advanced Vision Science, Inc. U.S. Santen India Private Limited India InnFocus, Inc. Santen Pharmaceutical Asia Pte. Ltd. Singapore Santen Ventures, Inc. Santen Canada Inc. Canada SANTEN (THAILAND) CO., LTD. Thailand Santen Holdings EU B.V. Netherlands SANTEN PHARMA MALAYSIA SDN. BHD. Malaysia Santen Oy Finland Santen S.A.S. France SANTEN PHILIPPINES INC. Philippines Santen GmbH Germany SANTEN PHARMACEUTICAL (HONG KONG) LIMITED Hong Kong SantenPharma AB Sweden Santen SA Switzerland Other Office Santen Italy S.r.l. Italy Ho Chi Minh City Representative Office Vietnam Santen UK Limited U.K. Santen Pharmaceutical Spain, S.L. Spain SANTEN LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY Russia Inclusion in ESG Indexes Index name Overview Index name Overview Index Series developed by FTSE Russell MSCI World ESG Leaders An index developed by MSCI in the FTSE4Good in the U.K. The index series selects Indexes U.S. The index selects companies Index Series companies based on evaluations of their from their respective industries based initiatives in the areas of Environmental, on outstanding ESG performance. Social and Governance(ESG) activities. MSCI Japan ESG Select An index developed by MSCI in the FTSE Blossom A broad index developed by FTSE U.S. The index selects companies that Russell in the U.K. The index Leaders Index Japan Index rate highly for ESG response from incorporates overall ESG among the top 700 Japanese stocks considerations. by market capitalization. Please refer to the CSR section on the Company’s website for the most recent information about index selection. https://www.santen.com/en/csr Editorial Policy From fiscal 2017, Santen has adopted a policy to integrate its former Reference Guidelines Annual Report and CSR Report into an integrated report that provides The International Integrated Reporting Framework (International a view of overall business activities based on Santen’s Values. The Integrated Reporting Council), The GRI Sustainability Reporting integrated report is edited with the intention to provide customers and Standards (Global Reporting Initiative), and Environmental society with an understanding of Company values and includes Reporting Guidelines (Ministry of the Environment) comprehensive coverage of financial information as well as Note on Accounting Standards non-financial information such as management strategies, review of The Santen Group has adopted International Financial operations and CSR activities. Santen has streamlined content and Reporting Standards (IFRS) from fiscal 2014, for the purpose of simplified descriptions to allow for easier understanding by a wide enhancing the international comparability of its financial range of stakeholders, starting with shareholders and investors. information. Figures for fiscal 2013 have been restated to Detailed information is disclosed through the following media. conform to IFRS for comparison and analysis purposes. •Corporate Website Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements https://www.santen.com This annual report contains forward-looking statements •IR Website (“Investors & Media” on Santen’s Corporate Website) https://www.santen.com/en/ir regarding the Company’s plans, strategies and results for the •CSR Website (“CSR” on Santen’s Corporate Website) future. All forward-looking statements are based on judgments http://www.santen.com/en/csr derived from the information available to the Company at the Information Provided time of publication. Certain risks and uncertainties could cause the Company’s actual results to differ materially from any Information contained in this report is selected in order of importance from projections presented in this report. These risks and both aspects of value creation for Santen and the impact on stakeholders. uncertainties include, but are not limited to, adverse economic Applicable Scope conditions, delays in new products launch, currency exchange Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. and consolidated subsidiaries rate, legislative and regulatory developments. Reporting Period Fiscal 2018 (April 1, 2018 to March 31, 2019) Certain information is updated after April 1, 2019. Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2019 57 This report is printed with vegetable oil ink. Printed in Japan
