United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 Sustainability Report 2018 We Promote Sustainability Nachhaltigkeitsbericht Strategie 1 Contents 3 // FOREWORD Profile of NRW.BANK and Key Performance Indicators 10 // STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE Living up to Our Corporate Responsibility 21 // PROMOTION REPORT Designing Sustainable Promotion for Clients 28 // GREEN BOND NRW.BANK.Green Bond 2018 42 // ECO-BALANCE Protecting the Climate and the Environment 50 // HUMAN RESOURCES Assuming Social Responsibility for Employees 62 // CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP Showing Commitment to Society This is an unofficial translation of the Nachhaltigkeitsbericht 2018 (German Sustainability Report 2018) and is provided for convenience purposes only. In the event of any ambiguity, the German text will prevail. Foreword by the Managing Board Dear Readers, Sustainable action no longer refers to environmental and climate protection alone. It meanwhile plays a major role in our society in all areas of life and is of particular concern to NRW.BANK, the promotional bank for North Rhine-West­ phalia. Because we want to improve the lives of present and future generations in economic, social and environmental terms. This is a mission to which we have fully committed ourselves. In doing so, we are guided, among other things, by the ten internationally recognised principles of the UN Global Compact. Our sustainability can be documented. In our annual Sustainability Report, we once again give an account of the successes of our sustainable actions and provide transparent information on our progress in terms of a corporate activity. The contents of our report are based on the requirements of the German Sustainability Code and on EU Directive 2014/95/EU. For several years now, NRW.BANK’s banking operations have been completely climate-neutral. By purchasing certificates, we offset emissions that we cannot avoid. We are continuously updating and refining the sustainability efforts within the Bank. We have updated, for instance, the Sustainability Guidelines that were implemented in the rules and regulations of NRW.BANK at the beginning of 2018. The new policies that came into force on 1 January 2019 govern the current and future sustainability approach down to the last detail under environmental, social and ethical aspects. We are happy to comply with the requirement to increasingly integrate the resulting demands and requirements into our organisational structure. As part of a stakeholder dialogue, NRW.BANK takes into account the ­perceptions, wishes and concerns of relevant stakeholders. Sustainability Report 2018 Foreword 3 We also attach great importance to the needs of our employees. We offer them a wide range of perspectives and training opportunities within the Bank for their personal and professional development. All our employees have committed themselves to respectful and forward-looking dealings with each other. According to independent studies, we are one of the best employers in Germany. With a view to securing young talent, we also ensure that our trainees and apprentices benefit from the best possible career opportunities. In 2018, we made second place among the banks participating in the survey “Deutschlands beste Ausbildungsbetriebe” (Germany’s Best Providers of Vocational Training) conducted on behalf of “Focus Money” magazine. The excellent quality of our health protection measures has been confirmed by the occupational compensation fund for North Rhine-Westphalia. We promote what moves NRW – by providing the right promotional products and advisory services. In 2018, our sustain-­ able promotional business achieved a strong result. The volume of new commitments amounted to € 10.3 billion for the promotion of start-ups, SMEs, housing and infrastructure in the municipalities. At € 885.3 million, start-up and innovation projects accounted for the lion’s share of our promotional funds, 30 per cent more than in the previous year. We attached special importance to expanding our promotional advisory services. 28,000 consultations helped to ensure the sustainable success of the investments made. Our annual Green Bonds offer investors the opportunity to place their capital in environmental and sustainable ­investments. Since 2013, we have issued six NRW.BANK.Green Bonds with a total volume of € 2.8 billion, of which € 2.0 billion were listed on the Luxembourg Green Exchange (LGX) as at 31 December 2018. The funds are spent exclusively on climate and environmental protection projects in NRW. The Wuppertal Institute estimates that all NRW.BANK.Green Bond 2018 projects will save around 3 million tons of CO2 equivalents over the ten-year term. Read more about the measures we take to support sustainable business practices in North Rhine-Westphalia and the progress we have made in this respect on the following pages of the Sustainability Report. We wish you an ­informative read and look forward to communicating with you. The Managing Board of NRW.BANK Eckhard Forst Gabriela Pantring Michael Stölting Dietrich Suhlrie Chairman of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Managing Board Managing Board Managing Board Managing Board Sustainability Report 2018 Foreword 4 Profile of NRW.BANK and Key Performance Indicators NRW.BANK is the promotional bank of North Rhine-Westphalia (NRW). In the context of subsidised housing construction, NRW.BANK advises the ­Its mission is to support its owner, the State of North Rhine-Westphalia, ­in approval authorities of the responsible municipal or local governments as ­t he completion of its structural and economic policy tasks. In its three well as prospective developers and owners on the possibilities to make ­promotional fields “Economy”, “Housing” and “Infrastructure/Municipalities”, ­social housing construction modern, flexible and profitable using the right NRW.BANK uses a wide range of promotional tools – from low-interest promotional programmes. promotional loans to equity financing to advisory services. It cooperates with all banks and savings banks on a competition-neutral basis. The clients Municipal financing also forms part of NRW.BANK’s public mission. The of NRW.BANK benefit from favourable conditions as well as from long Bank is the ideal partner of the North Rhine-Westphalian municipalities, ­maturities and fixed interest periods. The Bank secures access to promowhich it supports with advisory services and promotional products also tional loans through optional liability releases for on-lending house banks. ­in times of low interest rates. The Bank is a strong and reliable partner to small and medium-sized enterThis is already the fourth time that NRW.BANK publishes a separate Sustain-­ prises in North Rhine-Westphalia and supports them with the right products ability Report which is based on the criteria of the German Sustainability in any phase of their lifecycles. Code. Thus ensuring that the progress made is presented in a transparent manner. Sustainability Report 2018 Foreword 5 Sustainability Balance Economic Performance Indicators 2018 2017 2016 Unit Financial performance indicators Total assets 149,083 147,584 142,066 € millions Equity capital pursuant to the German Commercial Code (HGB) 17,984 17,983 17,983 € millions Net interest and net commission income1) 698 722 738 € millions Administrative expenses 249 219 215 € millions Operating result 196 395 465 € millions Cost income ratio 56.0 35.6 31.6 % Non-performing loans ratio 0.3 0.3 0.2 % Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) capital ratio 41.56 41.34 41.76 % Leverage ratio 2) 11.15 11.37 11.63 % Liquidity coverage ratio > 100 > 100 > 100 % NRW.BANK.Green Bonds (new issues) Volume 500 500 500 € millions Maturity 10 10 10 years Focus Energy Energy Energy Second Opinion oekom research oekom research oekom research CO2 savings per year 614 804 685 t/€ m Promotional fields (new commitments) “Economy” 3,592 3,667 3,210 € millions “Housing” 2,215 2,609 2,746 € millions “Infrastructure/Municipalities” 4,487 5,359 5,205 € millions Sustainability Report 2018 Foreword 6 Sustainability Balance Social Performance Indicators 2018 2017 2016 Unit Employee structure Number of permanent employees 1,365 1,319 1,301 employees Share of women of total workforce 51.9 52.2 52.4 % Share of women in management positions 32.9 31.1 31.6 % Part-time employees share of total workforce 33.5 32.6 28.8 % Turnover ratio 2.9 3.9 3.7 % Average period of employment 16.6 16.3 16.4 years Average age 45.4 45.0 44.6 years Additionally: temporary employees 36 33 34 employees Additionally: apprentices/trainees 49 47 37 employees Vocational and further training Participation in internal seminars 753 1,121 762 employees Participation in external seminars 524 404 373 employees In-house trainers 202 192 172 employees Work/family life balance Part-time employees 457 430 375 employees Executives working part-time 47 42 34 employees Employees on passive parental leave3) 35 41 40 employees Corporate citizenship Total 0.8 0.8 0.8 € millions Science & Education 48 45 49 % Society & Social Affairs 14 16 31 % Arts & Culture 38 39 20 % Sustainability Report 2018 Foreword 7 Sustainability Balance Environmental Performance Indicators 2018 2017 2016 Unit Greenhouse gas emissions4) Total emissions 1,861 1,902 1,914 t CO2 thereof direct emissions (Scope 15)) 423 442 412 t CO2 thereof indirect emissions (Scope 25)) 459 489 491 t CO2 thereof indirect emissions (Scope 35)) 979 971 1,011 t CO2 Emissions per employee 1.28 1.33 1.34 t CO2 thereof offset6) 100 100 100 % Building energy Total electricity consumption 5,918,385 5,678,066 5,846,930 kWh thereof from green electricity 100 100 100 % Electricity consumption per employee 4,075 3,977 4,148 kWh Total heating energy 5,060,700 5,386,870 5,406,170 kWh Heating energy per employee 3,484 3,773 3,836 kWh Business travel Total kilometres travelled 4,736,230 4,620,434 4,565,586 km Kilometres travelled per employee 3,261 3,236 3,239 km Paper Total paper consumption7) 34,437 38,389 42,936 kg Paper consumption per employee7) 23.7 26.9 30.5 kg thereof recycled paper 77.8 65.8 63.4 % Waste Total8) 125.8 125.0 227.0 t Recycling ratio 69.7 72.6 53.2 % Waste per employee 87 88 161 kg Full-time equivalents For the calculation per employee 1,452 1,428 1,409 employees Sustainability Report 2018 Foreword 8 Sustainability Balance Sustainability Ratings ISS-oekom imug MSCI ESG Vigeo Eiris Sustainalytics Prime (C) positive (B) AA not public not public Credit Ratings (long-term) 2018 2017 2016 Fitch Ratings AAAs AAAs AAAs Moody’s Aa1s Aa1s Aa1s Standard & Poor’s AA-p AA-s AA-s 1) As of fiscal year 2016, interest effects from provisions not related to the banking business (mainly provisions for pensions and provisions for additional benefits) are no longer recognised in net interest income but in other operating income. The prior year figures were adjusted accordingly. 2) Pursuant to Disclosure Report 3) As of 31 December. Figure does not include employees who work part-time during parental leave. They are shown under “Part-time employees”. 4) The conversion factors correspond to the 2018 VfU update version 1.2. 5) Distinction between direct and indirect emissions: direct greenhouse gas emissions come from sources owned or controlled by NRW.BANK. Indirect greenhouse gas emissions result from the business activity of NRW.BANK – their sources are owned or controlled by third parties. In accordance with the “Greenhouse Gas Protocol”, emissions are divided into three categories depending on the degree of influence exerted by NRW.BANK: – Emission category (Scope 1): all direct emissions. – Emission category (Scope 2): all indirect emissions produced, for instance, in the generation of electricity, steam or thermal energy sourced by NRW.BANK from external sources. – Emission category (Scope 3): all other indirect emissions in the field of logistics, material consumption, supplies and disposal. This also includes the emissions produced by service providers or manufacturing companies and their upstream suppliers. 6) NRW.BANK offsets its CO2 emissions through the purchase of certificates from global wind park projects. 7) Office paper, excl. printed matter, envelopes and marketing materials 8) Only office waste, excl. kitchen and other waste Abbreviations: CO2: carbon dioxide; kg: kilogramme; km: kilometre; kWh: kilowatt hour; m: million; t: tons Sustainability Report 2018 Foreword 9 // STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE Transparent, responsible and conscientious dealings with its owner, its customers, its employees and society form the basis of the sustainable operations of NRW.BANK. The Bank is committed to living up to its corporate responsibility and to evolving it in a far-sighted manner across all areas of the company. Living up to Our Corporate Responsibility In accordance with the law under which it was founded as the promotional The essential cornerstones of the sustainability efforts pursued by NRW.BANK bank of North Rhine-Westphalia, NRW.BANK accepts its corporate responinclude transparent and responsible relations with its owner, customers, sibility. Its activity is geared to the principle of sustainability, which it has employees and society at large. NRW.BANK lives up to this commitment defined as follows: “Sustainable development is development that meets the based on its Public Corporate Governance Code. In addition, NRW.BANK needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations has defined the core elements of its corporate mission in its corporate mission to meet their own needs”.1) statement. Sustainability is a central guiding principle and a key criterion for NRW.BANK’s To make further progress in the field of sustainability, NRW.BANK introduced decisions on business policy. It is reflected in all phases of NRW.BANK’s Sustainability Guidelines in early 2018, which govern the Bank’s approach corporate activities, starting from its strategic and business policy decisions to sustainability and its continuous further development. Their purpose is to the shaping of its range of products and services down to the implemento document the already established sustainability processes and to anchor tation of specific financings, its capital market activities and the advisory them more firmly in the organisational structure and Bank-wide strategy of services it provides. NRW.BANK. The former Principles of Corporate Responsibility have been incorporated in the new Sustainability Guidelines. An updated version of NRW.BANK understands the economic, environmental, social and ethical the Sustainability Guidelines was enforced with effect from January 1, 2019, aspects of sustainability as being inextricably linked. In accordance with which considers, inter alia, the results of the stakeholder dialogue on sustain­its sustainability strategy, NRW.BANK specifically promotes such projects ability of the year 2018. and programmes which are designed to improve living conditions, social development as well as environmental and climate protection in North The Sustainability Guidelines define the entrepreneurial approach of the Rhine-Westphalia. Bank, taking sustainability aspects into account. Besides the economic ­viability of the projects funded by NRW.BANK, compliance with the interests of its customers and with all other aspects of sustainability are key preconditions for the Bank’s promotional activities. 1) Source: Brundtland Report, 1987 Sustainability Report 2018 Strategy and Governance 11 The Sustainability Guidelines specify detailed rules for NRW.BANK’s treatment The objectives agreed between the Supervisory Board and the Managing of controversial business practices (e.g. human rights violations, child labour, Board are derived from the overall strategy of NRW.BANK, which follows violations of labour law, environmental behaviour, economic practices and the general principle: “The Bank‘s activities are guided by the principles of animal testing) and controversial business fields (e.g. defence and weapons sustainability. The details are outlined in the Sustainability Guidelines of industry, illegal gambling, controversial business activities relating to the NRW.BANK.” environment, nature and animals). Considering the latter and based on the Sustainability Guidelines of ­ Sustainability Objectives NRW.BANK, potential objectives for the further development of sustaina­ The promotional strategy is at the core of the overall strategy and describes bility are determined annually for a four-year period. They represent the fundamental objectives and measures with the help of which NRW.BANK fields of action in which the Bank wants to achieve further progress in its supports the State of North Rhine-Westphalia in its structural and economic sustain-ability efforts by taking suitable measures and which should have policy tasks. To underpin NRW.BANK’s efforts to make a contribution to ­a positive influence on the future of North Rhine-Westphalia. achieving the climate and environmental targets set by the Federal Republic of Germany and the State of North Rhine-Westphalia, the current promotional strategy primarily encompasses the further development of the promotional offerings aimed at protecting resources, increasing efficiency and implementing the energy transition. This further development always takes place on the basis of trusting communication in close coordination with the state governement. Sustainability Report 2018 Strategy and Governance 12 NRW.BANK‘s objectives and measures for the years 2019–2022 are listed Sustainability – below. The systematisation of the objectives and measures is based on the sustainability principles set out in NRW.BANK‘s Sustainability Guidelines: Objectives and Activities of NRW.BANK 2019–2022 A. Living Corporate Responsibility Sustainability objective Activity Period Intensify the dialogue with the Engage in a regular and open exchange within the context of a continuously evolving stakeholder dialogue Ongoing stakeholders that are relevant for sustainability Employee survey on sustainability – Review the possibility to include employee proposals in the objectives development process Ongoing Expand sustainability-related topics on the Internet Ongoing Expand sustainability-related topics on the intranet 2019 Further expansion of sustainability communications Examine signing of the UN-PRI 2019 Sign the declaration of compliance with the German Sustainability Code (Deutscher Nachhaltigkeitskodex – DNK) 2020 for the preparation of the Sustainability Report Further develop the NRW.BANK’s Sustainability Guidelines Ongoing Further development of sustainability-related topics Regular exchange on sustainability-related topics with other market players (at conferences, forums, bilateral meetings) Ongoing within NRW.BANK Support the EU Sustainable Finance Action Plan 2019 B. Shaping Sustainable Promotion for Customers Sustainability objective Activity Period Consistently consider sustainability aspects as part of the development of promotional products Ongoing Intensify sustainability-related advisory services for customers 2019 Strengthen and expand Develop an adequate offering regarding the cross-sectional theme “Energy/Environmental Protection” 2019 sustainable promotional products Improve the future viability of social infrastructure and municipal finance 2019 Create more affordable housing through the promotional field “Housing” 2019 C. Further Development of Sustainable Capital Market Business Sustainability objective Activity Period Strengthen and expand the Annual issuance of a Green Bond Ongoing sustainable capital market business Increase the Green Bond portfolio to € 300 million by 2020 (previously: € 200 million by 2020) 2020 Sustainability Report 2018 Strategy and Governance 13 Sustainability – Objectives and Activities of NRW.BANK 2019–2022 D. Assuming Social Responsibility for Employees Sustainability objective Activity Period Further expand employer branding for the target group of trainees/apprentices Ongoing Continue revising and offering the „Grundsätze für die Zusammenarbeit, Kommunikation und Führung“ 2019 (principles for cooperation, communication and leadership at NRW.BANK) workshops for long-serving executives Improve the working conditions for people with disabilities / Further anchoring of inclusion 2019 Requirement-oriented further development of an introductory presentation on NRW.BANK’s sustainability policy for 2019 Further development of new employees and trainees/apprentices a value-oriented corporate culture Strengthen/expand the active feedback culture 2019 Intensify contacts with people on leave in preparation of their return 2020 First Aid refresher courses 2022 Optimise NRW.BANK’s internal further training offerings Ongoing Control the ongoing implementation of measures from the Equal Treatment Plan 2019-X 2019 Continue the flexible working time schemes Ongoing Expand the possibility to achieve a better balance of Participate in “audit berufundfamilie” (job and family audit) Ongoing work and family life Evaluate and possibly continue/adjust mobile working possibilities 2019 Continuation and target-oriented further development of annual activities relating to diet, exercise, relaxation and prevention Ongoing Regular health check-ups by the company doctor Ongoing Further development of Offer more activities aimed at health promotion 2019 health management offerings Establish a digital health platform for employees 2019 Optimise the ongoing health promotion offerings by considering employees’ interests and the latest medical findings 2020 Sustainability Report 2018 Strategy and Governance 14 Sustainability – Objectives and Activities of NRW.BANK 2019–2022 E. Protecting the Climate and the Environment Sustainability objective Activity Period Increase the share of recycled paper Ongoing Increase the digitisation of processes (authorisations, applications) Ongoing Optimise the company’s Raise awareness for the use of resources Ongoing consumption/save resources Refrain from printing the Annual Report; make it available in a digital format 2019 Change the payslip to a digital format 2019 Introduce a fully digital applicant management 2019 Review the possibility to introduce reusable coffee mugs in the Förderbar/Tresor bistros 2019 Further development of Increase the use of sustainable consumables Ongoing sustainable procurement Adopt and further develop sustainability aspects in the standard contracts Ongoing Review the possibility to serve “fairtrade”/organic coffee at conferences in the Förderbar/Tresor bistros 2019 Strengthen environmentally-friendly Certification as “bicycle-friendly company” Ongoing mobility Provide e-car charging stations for employees 2019 F. Showing Commitment to Society Sustainability objective Activity Period Annual blood donation campaign in cooperation with the Red Cross Ongoing Constant alignment of corporate responsibility with current corporate Repeat typing campaign in cooperation with the Bone Marrow Donation Centre in Düsseldorf Ongoing citizenship topics Promote young up-and-coming artists Ongoing Sustainability Report 2018 Strategy and Governance 15 NRW.BANK has fully achieved its objectives for 2018. opment of the sustainability issue. In the stakeholder dialogue of 2018, ­current developments in the field of sustainability were intensively discussed Sustainability as a Part of Strategic Management with the sustainability-relevant stakeholders. Considering sustainability to be a central leitmotif, NRW.BANK does not ­regard the implementation and further development of this issue as a At the Bank’s Strategy Conference, the main input from this dialogue was separate process but as an integral component of strategic management discussed and assessed from a feasibility and efficiency perspective. The and thus as a general principle of overarching importance in the Bank’s relevant insights gained from the stakeholder dialogue were either implestrategy. mented at short notice or were integrated into the Sustainability Guidelines or included in the sustainability objectives and measures of NRW.BANK. On the basis of the Bank’s generally decentralised organisation, responsibility for specific operational aspects relating to sustainability lies with Sustainability Communications the relevant departments. As part of a central coordination function, the The annual Financial Report and the Non-financial Report are important Strategy and Research Department ensures that the necessary framework communication tools used by NRW.BANK to supply its stakeholders with conditions and regulations are in place and transfers current market transparent information about its corporate responsibility. The present developments into the Bank. Sustainability Report and the sustainability portal on the Bank’s website provide additional information. Reflecting the universal responsibility approach, important sustainability aspects are discussed by the management circle, which is composed of Sustainability communications transparently document the progress and ­the Managing Board of NRW.BANK and the heads of all business units. It effects of NRW.BANK’s sustainability efforts. monitors, in particular, the implementation of the objectives as well as the discussion and definition of the further development of the Sustainability Statutory Framework and Internal Regulations Guidelines, also taking input from major stakeholders into account. The The consideration of the sustainability principle is firmly anchored in the participation of all business units in this established control process ensures Bank’s statutes (section 5, para. 1) and in the Act on NRW.BANK (section that the different points of view are considered. 3, para. 1). Stakeholder Dialogue In the context of the preparation of the Sustainability Guidelines, NRW.BANK decided to expand the regular exchange with its stakeholders. The consideration of external input is considered a key aspect in the further develSustainability Report 2018 Strategy and Governance 16 Special aspects resulting from the framework conditions of NRW.BANK Laundering and Operational Risk Officers as well as deputies for exercising such as “Verständigung II”, the public mission and the house bank principle the various Compliance functions. They report directly to the Managing are also taken into account. Board and are bound by instructions only from the latter in performing their tasks. In addition, the Bank has developed internal policies addressing various ­aspects of sustainability at NRW.BANK. The tasks of these Officers primarily include: development, communication and review of the Bank-wide Compliance and Money Laundering Prevention Labour Standards and Human Rights framework, managing the compliance risk whilst taking other risk types into Compliance with human rights and with the labour standards that are account, such as reputational and operational risks. In addition, they carry ­applicable in Germany as well as the rejection of child and forced labour out Bank-specific risk analyses to assess the appropriateness and effectiveare a matter of course for NRW.BANK at all its locations and has been ness of the principles, resources and processes and refine and update them. ­anchored in its Sustainability Guidelines. They assist the Managing Board in all compliance-related matters and ­regularly report to the latter. Equal Opportunities and Principle of Non-discrimination To offer its employees a fair and good working environment, the Bank The promotional bank pursues a preventive approach to raise awareness of attaches importance to mutual respect and avoiding discrimination. This compliance matters. It has established a set of detailed, written internal ­is why equal opportunities and the principle of non-discrimination are laid Compliance Regulations as well as mandatory regular training courses on down in the Sustainability Guidelines and in special internal guidelines. compliance, money laundering prevention as well as the ‘other criminal acts’ (sonstige strafbare Handlungen) as defined in the German Banking Compliance and Money Laundering Prevention Act (KWG) for all its employees. The business model of NRW.BANK hinges on its owner, its employees, customers, business partners and the public trusting in its expertise, Both locations of NRW.BANK have the same risk profile with regard to the ­performance and integrity. The Bank is committed to compliance with above-mentioned risks. ­regulatory and statutory provisions as well as with internal requirements, which forms the basis for such trust. Data Protection To ensure that data are handled responsibly and confidentially in the Compliance-related topics are implemented in accordance with the Minimum ­context of its business activity, NRW.BANK has regulated all activities in Requirements for Risk Management (MaRisk), the Anti Money Laundering the area of data protection and banking secrecy in a set of written policies Act (GwG) and the Securities Trading Act (WpHG). and instructions. The Compliance Department, which forms part of the Risk Control unit, is The Bank meets its statutory training obligations relating to data protection the central body that is responsible for addressing these tasks. The Bank and information security towards its staff. has appointed a Compliance Officer (MaRisk, WpHG) as well as Money Sustainability Report 2018 Strategy and Governance 17 Corruption Prevention In this context, sustainability is always a central guiding principle and a Besides its regulations on compliance, anti money laundering and data key criterion for NRW.BANK’s decisions on business policy. As part of its protection, NRW.BANK’s set of written policies and instructions also inbusiness activities and when awarding contracts, the Bank considers clude general instructions and regulations relating to other criminal acts economic, environmental (e.g. environmental protection, energy efficiency) as defined in section 25h KWG. These are addressed at all employees of as well as social and ethical aspects. the Bank and also include the prevention of corruption. Taking this into account, contractors are kept paying attention to that they NRW.BANK has also established effective processes for receiving and and their subcontractors comply with pursuing reports of suspicious behaviour. In the event of infringements or the detection of other criminal acts, the central function established in human rights as in the Universal Declaration on Human Rights by the the Risk Control unit in accordance with section 25h KWG takes action. UN General Assembly [first published on 10 December 1948] as well It receives potential reports and coordinates the entire process relating to as the resulting definition of human rights according to the Basic Law reports of suspicious behaviour and risk notifications relating to money of the Federal Republic of Germany; laundering and other criminal acts. Charges are filed by the Legal unit only the prohibition of child and forced labour under the UN Convention in consultation with the central function. on the Rights of the Child (CRC) of 1989/1990; the protection against systematic/discriminatory labour law violations There was no evidence of infringements or reports of suspicious behaviour according to the ILO Core Labour Standards; at NRW.BANK in the reporting year, nor were any fines or non-monetary the principles of gender equality; penalties imposed on NRW.BANK. the provisions of the Federal Nature Conservation Act (BNatSchG), the Environmental Damage Act (USchadG) and the Animal Welfare Sustainable Procurement Act (TierSchG) as well as NRW.BANK is committed to the economic, cost-effective, efficient and European and national laws on corruption, bribery, fraud, accounting sustainable procurement of goods as well as construction and other services. fraud, anti-trust violations, money laundering, insider trading and tax All purchases are made in accordance with the applicable regulations of compliance. public procurement law. In the context of its procurement policy, the Bank integrates environmental The NRW.BANK places orders which exceed the EU thresholds in accordance aspects also into the procurement of office materials as well as the ordering with the Act against Restraints on Competition (GWB), the Procurement and logistic processes. An example is the carbon neutral sending of mail Regulations (VgV), the Construction Contract Procedures (VOB/A), the through NRW.BANK’s participation in the GOGREEN programme of Deutsche North Rhine-Westphalian Act on Compliance with Collective Agreements Post DHL Group. and Procurement (TVgG NRW) as well as the Minimum Wage Act (MiLoG). NRW.BANK has decided to implement a structured procurement process In the reporting year, NRW.BANK again demonstrated its commitment to also for orders that do not exceed the EU thresholds for tenders as of an assuming responsibility towards society at its two locations in Düsseldorf amount of € 25,000. and Münster, where the Bank promoted the employment of disabled people by commissioning workshops for disabled to provide such services as laundry and cleaning. Sustainability Report 2018 Strategy and Governance 18 Public Corporate Governance Code The Bank is a signatory of the following sustainability-relevant initiatives Being a promotional bank, NRW.BANK is very much committed to transparent and/or the voluntary commitments for sustainable corporate activity and responsible action towards the public, its guarantor and owner as well ­developed by the latter: as investors, customers and employees. This commitment is based on the Public Corporate Governance Code, as last amended on 1 January 2014, Germany’s “Diversity Charter” with which the members of the Managing Board, the Supervisory Board Green Bond Principles and the Board of Guarantors fully identify. Building on this basis, the Bank UNEP Finance Initiative publishes an annual Report on Public Corporate Governance to inform about United Nations Global Compact material corporate governance developments. This report is contained in VfU e. V. the Financial Report and is additionally published as a separate document on NRW.BANK’s website. As an ordinary member of the Association of German Public Banks (VÖB) and the European Association of Public Banks (EAPB), NRW.BANK actively For many years, the Bank has implemented transparency and responsibility participates in working groups and panel discussions on sustainability, in its dealings with its target groups. In early 2006, NRW.BANK was one sustainable finance and green bonds. of the first public-sector companies in Germany to adopt a Public Corporate Governance Code and to officially commit itself to this standard of corporate Sustainable Products governance. NRW.BANK continuously optimises its business activities with regard to sustainability and has anchored these efforts in its Sustainability Guidelines. Freedom of Association and Right to Collective Bargaining The focus is placed on the core business segments and, hence, on the inteThe Bank’s staff council represents the interests and needs of the employees of gration of the individual sustainability issues in its promotional products in NRW.BANK based on the North Rhine-Westphalian State Staff Representation order to design sustainable promotion for clients. Act (LPVG NRW). In 2018, the staff council again monitored compliance with applicable laws, regulations, collective bargaining agreements as well Special attention is paid to sustainability risks and to compliance with the as labour agreements and informed the employees of both head offices at Sustainability Guidelines also when launching new products. The Bank has the annual staff assembly. established an internal process in the context of which each new promotional product of NRW.BANK is checked for compliance with sustainability values. Being an institution under public law, NRW.BANK is subject to the collective bargaining agreement for the private sector and the public banking Responsible Marketing ­industry. It implements the collectively agreed results for its employees The Bank is firmly committed to treating customer information confidentially. under collective agreements. This is also done on a voluntary basis for the The Bank’s Data Protection Officer is involved in all dialogue-based majority of employees not covered by collective agreements. marketing measures based on customer data to ensure responsible marketing. Initiatives and Memberships In accordance with its Sustainability Guidelines, NRW.BANK contributes to the tasks identified also outside its own business activity. Sustainability Report 2018 Strategy and Governance 19 In compliance with the provisions of the TVgG NRW, NRW.BANK considers important aspects of corporate responsibility when making purchases or placing SUSTAINABILITY ­orders in the context of its ­marketing activities. RATINGS The Bank’s advertising materials also reflect its commitment to Rating agencies specialising in sustainability have rated NRW.BANK’s performance in fields ­sustainability and include, for such as environment, society and governance for several years. In 2018, the Bank again scored ­instance, articles made from good ratings. ­recycled or renewable, biode­ gradable materials. Rating agency ISS-oekom, for instance, rates the sustainability of issuers on a scale from A+ to D–. NRW.BANK scored a “C” rating, with the additional “Prime” rating thus classifying the Bank as a sustainable investment. This means that the Bank’s rating is only three notches ­below the best sustainability rating “B” in the peer group. In the 2018 imug sustainability rating of bank bonds, NRW.BANK ranks within top five of the 23 promotional and development banks analysed. In addition, DZ BANK awarded NRW.BANK with the “sustainability seal” in its “EESG” rating. Sustainability Ratings ISS-oekom imug MSCI ESG Vigeo Eiris Sustainalytics Prime (C) positive (B) AA not public not public Sustainability Report 2018 Strategy and Governance 20 // PROMOTION REPORT NRW.BANK’s products and services are designed to secure the standard of living and to improve climate and environmental protection in North Rhine-Westphalia. In addition, the Bank supports a balanced social development in the North RhineWestphalian regions. The aim is to strengthen the stability of society. Accordingly, all of NRW.BANK’s promotional activities make a con­ tribution to the development of ­enterprises and municipalities in North Rhine-Westphalia. Nachhaltigkeitsbericht Strategie 21 Designing Sustainable Promotion for Clients Sustainable behaviour is a key objective of NRW.BANK’s business policy Focus of the Promotional Business and means the equal consideration of social, economic and environmental NRW.BANK’s promotional business is qualitative and theme-oriented. objectives and ethical matters. Most importantly, the sustainability objective The promotional services are provided in the three promotional fields shapes and guides NRW.BANK’s promotional offerings. ”Economy”, “Housing” as well as “Infrastructure/Municipalities”, which, in turn, are divided into individual promotional themes. For its promotional business the Bank uses the full range of lending tools and also steps in when banking and lending expertise is required for the Introduced in 2019, the promotional strategy complements NRW.BANK’s promotion process. The main instruments used include low-interest profocus on specific promotional fields and provides additional central guide­ motional loans, assumption of risk and equity financing. In 2018, NRW.BANK lines for the Bank’s promotional business. These guidelines contain selected recorded a volume of new commitments of € 10.3 billion. For detailed aspects covering all promotional fields to secure the effectiveness and ­information on the promotional business, please refer to the chapter “The ­efficiency of promotion. At this stage, the promotional strategy comprises Promotional Business of NRW.BANK” in the financial report. three guidelines: “European Promotion”, “Digital Promotion” and “Networked Promotion”. Apart from the provision of funds, forward-looking and requirement-oriented promotion increasingly requires customer-oriented advisory services. Specific objectives and measures have been defined for each of the new NRW.BANK has therefore built its advisory services and solutions into guidelines. The “European Promotion” guideline is designed to ensure that a second, equally important pillar of its business. the potential opened up by the new EU promotional period (2021–2027) is leveraged. Partnership and Cooperation NRW.BANK cooperates with other financial and promotional institutions The “Digital Promotion” guideline explicitly addresses the growing demands ­in a spirit of partnership. NRW.BANK conducts its commercial promotional made on promotional banks to further digitise their promotional business. business in cooperation with the banks and savings banks in a competiThe “Networked Promotion” guideline describes NRW.BANK’s efforts to tion-neutral manner based on the “house bank principle”. According to realise new and integrated ideas in the further development of its promotional this principle, the Bank has no direct contacts with its clients but extends products and services. Objectives and measures have also been defined for its promotional loans via banks and savings banks, which act as intermedieach of the promotional themes; they are put into practice using specific aries. promotional offers. As defined in the Act on NRW.BANK, municipal loans and promotional loans to central, regional and local governments as well as to public-sector special-­ purpose associations and subsidised housing construction programmes are typically granted directly by NRW.BANK. Sustainability Report 2018 Promotion Report 22 NRW.BANK’s offerings in the promotional field “Economy” cover the full The promotional field “Infrastructure/Municipalities” covers financing and l­ifecycle of small and medium-sized enterprises. Besides the general proadvisory services supporting the solid capitalisation of municipalities and motion of SMEs, the Bank has placed a focus on the effective promotion of the implementation of infrastructure projects. NRW.BANK promotes both investments in the protection of resources or in increasing corporate energy public and private projects for the improvement of infrastructures. Among efficiency. Targeted support for start-ups and innovations is another special other purposes, its products effectively support infrastructure measures promotional theme of NRW.BANK. designed to implement Germany’s energy transition. The promotional field “Housing” comprises NRW.BANK’s offerings for the The aspects of energy transition and environmental protection relate to all promotion of new housing construction and the modernisation of existing three promotional fields of NRW.BANK, albeit with different facets and housing stock. When buildings are modernised, special attention is paid to promotional measures. The Bank has pooled the corresponding products energy efficiency aspects as well as to barrier-free design and suitability and services in the individual promotional fields in a separate theme named for the elderly. In this context, the subsidised housing construction pro“Energy Transition / Environmental Protection”. Promotional funds in the grammes obviously play a special role. The respective promotional measures total amount of € 1.6 billion were made available in these promotional are geared towards the State of North Rhine-Westphalia’s annual housing themes. promotion programme (Wohnraumförderungsprogramm, WoFP) which breaks down the state government’s general promotional policy concepts Performance Indicators in the Promotional Business into concrete promotional measures. NRW.BANK’s objectives are primarily geared to providing the State of North Rhine-Westphalia with long-term support in performing its structural and economic tasks. Due to NRW.BANK’s public mission as the promotional Volume of New Commitments by Promotional Fields in € millions bank of North Rhine-Westphalia, development and promotion is the primary business objective and the volume of new commitments represents a key performance indicator used for controlling purposes. This performance Economy ­indicator comprises the commitments for promotional funds made in the Infrastructure/Municipalities 3,592 current fiscal year. Defined budget values exist for this and all other key 4,487 performance indicators and are regularly subjected to plan/actual comparisons as well as scenario and forecast analyses in order to provide appropriate Housing control stimuli. 2,215 NRW.BANK additionally records other special promotion-typical performance indicators for its promotional business. Sustainability Report 2018 Promotion Report 23 The number of funded residential units, for instance, is a performance In 2018, the Bank launched the new NRW.BANK.Digitalisierung und ­indicator for its subsidised housing construction operations and is reported Innovation programme, which extended NRW.BANK’s existing innovation regularly. In the various special programmes of the Bank for the promotion promotion offerings by adding a special promotional facility for the financing of environmental protection, innovations and society, suitable additional of SME digitisation projects in response to the growing digitisation pressure promotion-related information such as the purpose of the funded environfacing the SME sector. The programme comprises two separate promotional mental projects is documented in addition to the promotion volume. modules to finance digitisation projects and to support process, procedural and product innovations in small and medium-sized enterprises. This new The use of promotional funds is always linked to certain promotional NRW.BANK promotional solution effectively complements the digitisation conditions, whose compliance is secured by NRW.BANK especially in drive initiated by the State of North Rhine-Westphalia. This product is com­cooperation with the house banks. Compared to more broadly based plemented by the NRW.BANK.Innovative Unternehmen programme. It proprogrammes, the Bank’s special programmes are characterised by com­ vides special promotion for the proprietary development and production of prehensive promotional conditions in that they offer higher promotional innovative products, processes and services and offers favourable terms and amounts. conditions as well as an obligatory 70% liability release for the on-lending house bank. The programme thus takes account of the fact that it is often Economic Development difficult for innovative companies to raise loans because of a lack of unenNRW.BANK.Mittelstandskredit and NRW.BANK.Universalkredit are the cumbered collateral. two programmes with the highest volumes. The latter is aimed at both ­e stablished SMEs and company founders. Under these programmes, For many start-ups it is difficult to raise follow-up finance once a project loan interest-subsidised loans in the total amount of € 2.0 billion were granted expires. NRW.BANK therefore offers the NRW.StartUpKapital programme ­to some 4,800 enterprises for investments and working capital in 2018. to ensure that newly established companies which previously received funding under the state programme “START-UP-Hochschul-Ausgründungen Like NRW.BANK.Universalkredit, NRW.BANK.Gründungskredit is targeted NRW” receive the necessary follow-up funds to finance their business via at business start-ups and young companies. More than 1,400 start-up and NRW.BANK convertible bonds. growth projects received funding under this programme in 2018, with loans totalling approx. € 357 million. Micro start-ups with credit requirements of NRW.BANK supports seed financings of business start-ups and young up to € 25,000 receive customised promotion through the NRW.Mikro­ companies in high-technology sectors by offering equity-strengthening darlehen. As this programme focuses on the viability of the concepts and solutions through its Seed and Venture Funds, which have a combined the personality of the founder, projects may be financed also without proof ­volume of € 310 million. of equity capital or the usual collateral required for bank loans. This makes it possible for formerly unemployed people to set up their own businesses. Sustainability Report 2018 Promotion Report 24 These funds make an important contribution to reducing the high market Industry Structure in % inefficiencies in the German venture capital market, thus providing important NRW.BANK.Venture Funds and NRW.BANK.Seed Funds stimulation for innovation and the future competitiveness of North Rhine-­ Westphalia. In the venture capital segment, the Bank acts as a co-investor Cleantech 11 to finance newly established technology-oriented companies in sectors such as information and communication technology, biotechnology, cleanMicrosystems Technology 3 Other 27 tech, medical engineering and microsystems technology. The seed funds operate on a fund-of-funds basis. Currently NRW.BANK invests in twelve Medical regional seed funds, which, in turn, have made investments in 100 highEngineering 17 tech start-ups. Information and Communication Biotechnology 20 Technology 22 Under the NRW.SeedCap Digitale Wirtschaft programme NRW.BANK makes available equity capital or near-equity funds for start-ups from the digital sector in parallel to investments by business angels. This offering complements the win NRW.BANK Business Angels Initiative, in the context of which the Bank helps capital-seeking innovative companies gain access Enterprises may also receive low-interest financing for research and develop­ to business angels. ment projects falling under the “Masterplan Elektromobilität Nordrhein-­ Westfalen” (North Rhine-Westphalia’s Electromobility Masterplan). To make The NRW.BANK.Effizienzkredit is a central offering to support the energy North Rhine-Westphalia the leading federal state in terms of electromobility transition and to promote environmental protection in the field of economic and to encourage decisions in favour of clean vehicles, the number of eligible development. The loan offers strongly interest-subsidised terms for investbusinesses was expanded and the interest advantage of this offering was ments with clear ecological merits. To qualify for promotion, borrowers increased significantly in 2018. must prove that their projects will increase energy and resource efficiency permanently by at least 20% and 6%, respectively. Replacement investHousing Promotion ments with lower efficiency increases are eligible for promotion only on the As part of its subsidised housing construction activities, NRW.BANK made basis of certified environmental protection processes (e.g. PIUS Check or available new commitments of roughly € 923 million (previous year: € 907 environmental management system). million) for the creation of affordable, high-quality housing for low-income earners in 2018. These promotional funds are designed to increase the housing supply ­especially for families with children or handicapped people also in conurbations characterised by rising rents. A total of 8,662 residential units were funded in 2018 within the scope of the Bank’s subsidised housing construction activities. Sustainability Report 2018 Promotion Report 25 At € 719 million, some 6,200 rent-controlled and occupancy-controlled To avoid diesel bans and improve air quality, NRW.BANK added a separate rental housing units accounted for the bulk of the promotional funds spent promotional sub-programme with particularly favourable conditions for clean on subsidised housing construction. Other areas of interest in the promotion air measures to its broad-based promotional programme for municipal of new housing were the construction of new owner-occupied housing, the ­investments in 2018. Projects eligible for promotion under this subprogramme construction of dormitories for students and people with disabilities as well include the conversion of municipal vehicle fleets to vehicles without comas the promotion of neighbourhood development projects: the combination bustion engines, municipal infrastructure improvement projects, or urban of promotional funds is intended to respond to special local requirements development measures, such as the installation of bicycle stations, that in the promotion of neighbourhood development. benefit air pollution control. Measures addressing the existing housing stock primarily comprise measures As part of the NRW.BANK.Gute Schule 2020 programme launched in aimed at preserving an adequate quality in the existing housing stock.These cooperation with the State of North Rhine-Westphalia, NRW.BANK makes include energy-efficient building standards, the removal of barriers, protection available € 500 million p.a. during the period from 2017 to 2020 for long-term against burglary as well as digital housing and building technology including loans to finance municipal investments in the refurbishment, modernisation an attractively designed environment. and expansion of the municipal school infrastructure. The offering provides fixed quotas for each individual municipality. To prevent investments from In addition to subsidised housing construction, NRW.BANK offers lowfailing because of the financial situation of a municipality, the State of North interest investment loans for nursing homes and facilities operated by Rhine-Westphalia supports the municipalities by taking over their interest ­not-for-profit entities. These loans can be used, for instance, to finance and principal payments. In addition, municipal school operators and school modernisation and refurbishment projects or to fund the conversion of associations continue to benefit from the NRW.BANK.Moderne Schule conventional care facilities into alternative nursing and care concepts. ­programme, which provides long-term loans for the construction and ­modernisation of school buildings. Low-interest loans are granted under the NRW.BANK.Gebäudesanierung programme to support projects for raising energy efficiency as well as Infrastructure improvements require not only public-sector investments ­barrier-free refurbishment measures for privately owned buildings. but also private investments. NRW.BANK.Infrastruktur is a programme ­designed to raise private capital for low-interest financing of projects in Infrastructure and Municipal Promotion ­a wide range of different fields such as environmental protection, urban To support the expansion of the infrastructure in North Rhine-Westphalia, ­development, social affairs or education and qualification. NRW.BANK offers both customised, individual financing solutions and standardised promotional programmes. Individual financing solutions are provided for both corporate financings and project financings. Sustainability Report 2018 Promotion Report 26 In addition, NRW.BANK offers the NRW.BANK/EU.Stadtentwicklungskredit, Trusting Customer Relationships a special promotional loan for the sustainable economic and social revitaliPotential recipients of promotional loans increasingly inform themselves sation of urban neighbourhoods. This product provides low-interest loans ­independently about available promotional options and hence expect and optional liability releases to support urban development projects which ­promotional banks to provide targeted and objective information about match the integrated action plans of the respective municipalities. In promotional funds. NRW.BANK has therefore optimised its internet ­addition, NRW.BANK has special programmes to support, for instance, presence on an ongoing basis over the past years. ­the preservation of monuments, the expansion of broadband coverage in North Rhine-Westphalia, flood protection measures as well as investments in sports facilities. Investments in plants for the generation, storage and distribution of energy are promoted under the NRW.BANK.Energieinfrastruktur programme. In 2018, promotional loans with a total volume of € 275 million were granted under this programme, which were mainly used to finance wind turbine generators, partly in citizen’s wind farms. The offerings for municipalities are complemented by the NRW.BANK/EU.Wärmeinfrastrukturkredit programme for the effective promotion of energy-efficient district heating and cooling networks. For several years, NRW.BANK has actively supported the renaturation of the river Emscher, for which the Bank makes available long-term loans. In addition to these infrastructure development and promotion programmes, NRW.BANK again was a reliable partner to the North Rhine-Westphalian municipalities in 2018. Its municipal loans and liquidity loans to North Rhine Westphalian municipalities made an important contribution to ensuring the municipalities’ ability to act. The Bank moreover supports the municipal sector with a wide range of advisory services. Sustainability Report 2018 Promotion Report 27 // GREEN BOND Green Bonds issued by NRW.BANK allow investors to participate in ecological projects which, in turn, generate sustainable yields for the Bank’s investors. Nachhaltigkeitsbericht 2018 Strategie 28 NRW.BANK.Green Bond 2018 In 2013, NRW.BANK was Europe’s first regional agency to successfully launch a green bond. Since then the Bank’s annual Green Bond issues have established a close link between NRW.BANK’s environmentally oriented promotional business and its own funding activities in the international • Loans and the issue itself are closely linked: capital market. (Re)financing of loans that are not older than twelve months at the time of the issue of the SPO (second party opinion) The funds raised under the Green Bond programme are exclusively used to All projects are “live” fund previously identified promotional projects in North Rhine-Westphalia No risk of “green default”. The maximum term of the issue that have a special environment and climate benefit. is determined by the shortest loan maturity Internal designation of the loans Loan portfolio remains unchanged during the term of the issu One-off reporting is sufficient ISS-oekom research confirms the sustainability of the Green Bond Principles define the framework projects (second party opinion) NRW.BANK Green Bonds are Use of Proceeds Bonds The Wuppertal Institute prepares impact analysis; Projects are selected by the Green Bond Team reporting about the projects and their environmental In selecting the asset pool to be refinanced, NRW.BANK benefits is transparent applies the following criteria: The NRW.BANK.Green Bond 2018 is a material element • All selected projects have to support North Rhineof NRW.BANK’s “Non-financial Report”. This report was Westphalia’s climate and sustainability strategy as well as submitted to a voluntary review by the auditor and deemed ­the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) lawful and appropriate in light of the result of the audit. • Eligible fields include “Climate Mitigation” and “Climate Adaptation” or SDGs 3, 6, 7, 11, 13 and 14 • Focus on climate protection • Climate benefits to be maximised by allocating projects to the portfolio based on the highest carbon footprint reduction Sustainability Report 2018 Green Bond 29 To be eligible for selection under the Green Bond programme, projects The focus is on contributing to the State of North Rhine-Westphalia’s must have a commitment date within the past twelve months from the ­climate protection policy, supporting adaptation to the unavoidable ­issue of the SPO and match the defined themes. ­implications of climate change and the United Nations’ Sustainable ­Development Goals (SDGs 3, 6, 7, 11, 13 and 14). UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS – TAKING A NEW VIEW Source: Azote Images for Stockholm Resilience Centre Sustainability Report 2018 Green Bond 30 The measures supported by the Green Bond thus serve to reduce and Focus on the Environmental Impact avoid adverse environmental influences on the climate (mitigation) and NRW.BANK has assessed the environmental impact of its Green Bonds ­to manage the consequences of climate change (adaptation). As the main since 2015 with the aim to publish the CO2 emissions that have been saved emphasis is on climate protection, the selection of the projects primarily and/or avoided by investing in its Green Bonds on an annual basis. Since focuses on the highest carbon savings to be expected. the issue of the 2015 NRW.BANK.Green Bond, the Wuppertal Institute for Climate, Environment and Energy has been NRW.BANK’s competent partBetween them, the NRW.BANK.Green Bonds issued to date have a total ner for analysing the positive environmental impact. NRW.BANK has pubvolume of € 2.8 billion, of which an amount of € 2.0 billion was outstanding lished a detailed impact analysis in cooperation with the latter since 2016. as of 31 December 2018. The Wuppertal Institute prepares the analyses in accordance with the r­ ecommendations of the Harmonized Framework for Impact Reporting, which Overview of all NRW.BANK.Green Bonds (volume in € millions) were developed by multilateral development banks under the umbrella of 500 the GBPs. This framework permits the preparation of a transparent and com100% 86% 78% 81% 74% parable impact analysis of green bonds as recommended by the GBPs. 400 High Sustainability Ratings for NRW.BANK.Green Bonds 300 The clear concept closely aligned to the Green Bond Principles, the maturity, the good ESG rating of the issuer and the significant environmental benefit 200 of the (re)financed projects are reflected in high sustainability ratings of the NRW.BANK.Green Bonds. On a scale from D(poor) to A+ (excellent), 100 ISS-oekom has given four bonds outstanding in 2018 a B+ rating. Due to 22% 26% 19% the high proportion of wind power, the Green Bond 2017–2027 has a very 14% 0 high environmental benefit, which is reflected in a rating of A-. NRW.BANK. 2018 – 2028 2017 – 2027 2016 – 2026 2015 – 2025 2014 – 2018 Green Bonds are thus in the top quantile of all bonds rated by ISS-oekom. Maturity The liquid Green Bonds of NRW.BANK are issued exclusively in euros in Energy Water order to create a green euro benchmark curve in the long term. This will enable the Bank to illustrate a potential price difference between the green NRW.BANK curve and the regular NRW.BANK benchmark curve. Since 2014 the ecological benefit and quality of the projects selected for the NRW.BANK.Green Bonds have been analysed and assessed by ISS-­ oekom, an independent sustainability rating agency. This SPO has confirmed their consistently sustainable concept and compliance with the requirements of the Green Bond Principles (GBPs). Sustainability Report 2018 Green Bond 31 NRW.BANK.Green Bond 2018 ISS-oekom confirmed the sustainability and environmental benefit of these In the past fiscal year, an internal selection process identified eligible projects through a positive second party opinion. ­projects from the energy area with a total volume of € 500.0 million. At ­approximately € 330 million, the focus was once again on wind energy. On the basis of this asset pool, NRW.BANK successfully issued its sixth ­T he energy-related refurbishment of university clinics and residential Green Bond, the € 500.0 million 10-year NRW.BANK.Green Bond 2018, in buildings accounted for around € 160 million. New additions include loans June 2018. NRW.BANK guarantees its investors that the funds of the 2018 for the expansion of electromobility and the modernisation of local public Green Bond will be used to fund renewable energy, energy efficiency and transport. clean transport projects over the total term of the bond. The projects chosen were earmarked by NRW.BANK as “2018 Green Bond Asset Pool”. Number of Promotional Volume Area Field Topic Projects Funded in € m Energy Mitigation Clean Transport 23 9.5 Energy Mitigation Renewable energy 71 329.2 – thereof solar energy 6 3.0 – thereof onshore wind energy 65 326.2 Energy Mitigation Energy efficiency 1,234 161.3 – thereof modernisation of public facilities 4 114.3 – Miscellaneous 1,230 47.0 Sustainability Report 2018 Green Bond 32 Summary of the Environmental Impact of the NRW.BANK.Green Bonds NRW.BANK.Green Bond 2018 NRW.BANK.Green Bond 2017 NRW.BANK.Green Bond 20161) NRW.BANK.Green Bond 2015 CO2 savings per year CO2 savings per year CO2 savings per year CO2 savings per year € € € € 1 year 1m 614 t 1 year 1m 804 t 1 year 1m 685 t 1 year 1m 540 t € € € € 1 year 500 m 307,000 t 1 year 500 m 402,000 t 1 year 500 m 342,500 t2 1 year 500 m 270,000 t 10 3.0 m t CO2 10 4.0 m t CO2 10 3.4 m t CO2 10 2.7 m t CO2 years years years years Field “Climate Adaptation” – Rebuilding the River Emscher Single biggest water management project in the EU to implement the European Water Framework Directive Project period: almost three decades to the “Blue Emscher” in 2020 Conversion of the river and its affluents into semi-natural waters with a positive impact on biodiversity and other eco-system services Creation of a modern sewage system: 132 pump stations, five sewage treatment plants as well as one central sewage sludge plant and 87 rainwater treatment plants Direct participation of citizens Significant increase in species diversity 1) In 2018, € 19 million from renewable energies (wind energy) were prematurely repaid. In accordance with the „Use of Proceeds“, these assets were substituted by thematically corresponding projects. Sustainability Report 2018 Green Bond 33 Environmental Impact Analysis for the NRW.BANK.Green Bond 2018 In the reporting year, the Wuppertal Institute again determined the 3 MILLION TONS OF positive environmental effect of the selected projects in the field of “Climate Mitigation” with a total volume of € 500.0 million. CO2 EQUIVALENTS SAVED Field “Climate Mitigation” The projects financed in the field of “Climate Mitigation” by the NRW.BANK.Green Bond 2018 help reduce or even avoid negative It has been calculated that these projects avoid greenhouse environmental influences on the climate. The projects relate to: gas emissions of approximately 3 million t of CO2 equivalents over the 10-year term of the NRW.BANK.Green Bond 2018. renewable energy (wind energy and photovoltaics), This is equivalent to the CO2 storage capacity of a managed the modernisation of residential buildings, forest almost four times the size of Berlin. Measured by the the modernisation of university hospitals and size of the Green Bond asset pool of € 500.0 million, 614 t of clean transport. CO2 equivalents are saved per € 1.0 million per year. Breakdown of Project Financing Volume in the Field CO2 Equivalents Avoided Through a € 1 Million Investment over a Ten-year “Climate Mitigation” (€ 500 m) in % Period (based on the Investment Volume of € 500 Million) in Tons 10,000 Clean transport 2 9,270 Renewable 9,000 energies 66 8,000 Building modernisation (private) 9 7,000 6,000 5,000 Building modernisation (public) 23 4,000 3,000 2,000 1,000 0 110 71 Renewable Building Clean transport energies modernisation Sustainability Report 2018 Green Bond 34 In relation to the pro-rated financing, onshore wind turbine generators An amount of € 47.0 million originates from the NRW.BANK.Gebäude­ have proven to be the most efficient form of investment for the avoidance sanierung programme. Compared to the existing housing stock, the of greenhouse gas emissions in the Green Bond (928 tons per year and ­modernisation of residential buildings in North Rhine-Westphalia helps € 1.0 million). All investments will continue to avoid greenhouse gases also save another 6,100 tons of CO2 equivalents over the ten-year term and in beyond the maturity of the Green Bond. ­relation to the estimated promotion portion of 90%. The newly built onshore wind farms with a total output of 358 MW included Details as well as information on the precise method and presentation of in the Green Bond Asset Pool at an amount of € 326.2 million were realised ­t he results in accordance with the Harmonized Framework for Impact with a promotion portion of 57%. They produce an estimated 588 GWh of ­Reporting can be found in the impact analysis prepared by the Wuppertal electricity per year. These wind parks avoid 3.0 million tons of CO2 equivalents Institute. over a period of ten years. The Bank uses funds in the total amount of € 114.3 million from its Green Bond to support the modernisation of university hospitals. Of this amount, an ­estimated € 51.3 million is directly invested in energy efficiency upgrades (45% of the promotional amount). Compared to existing buildings, the green­house gas emissions are thus reduced by approx. 11,600 tons of CO2 equivalents over a period of ten years. Sustainability Report 2018 Green Bond 35 Green Bond Projects Green Bond funding is used to promote sustainable energy provision and manufacturing methods. Sustainability Report 2018 Green Bond 36 140 metres of energy suppliers Solarpark Green Energy on a Green Site Grottenkamp GbR INFRASTRUCTURE The “Am Grottenkamp” solar park was built in 2018 on around 11,000 square metres of wasteland on the edge of a residential area in Steinfurt-Borghorst. In 13 rows measuring up to 140 metres in length, some 2,500 photovoltaic modules now generate up to 650,000 kWh of electricity per year. NRW.BANK supported Solarpark Grottenkamp GbR www.nlf-gmbh.de in the construction of the plant by providing the same amount in euros under the NRW.BANK.Energieinfrastruktur programme, which was refinanced via the NRW.BANK.Green Bond. While people in the neighbouring residential area were initially somewhat sceptical, the solar park is now widely appreciated. The local residents are happy that green energy is being generated on their doorstep. They also appreciate the fact the green site on which the solar collectors are installed is a habitat for many wild animal and plant species. Sustainability Report 2018 Green Bond 37 Electricity for 22.400 households Hörstel Local Residents in Action for their Own Wind Farm Community Wind Farm INFRASTRUCTURE Over the coming years, 16 wind power plants will be erected in Hörstel under the leadership of motivated citizens – four in Uthuisen, nine in Lager Feld and three in Birgte. NRW.BANK supports the operating company, Bürgerwind Hörstel GmbH & Co KG, under the promotional programme NRW.BANK.Energieinfrastruktur. In addition to NRW.BANK, www.buergerwind-hoerstel.de four house banks are pre-financing the project in full. The residents will not have to contribute their capital – at least € 1,000 each – before the wind farm is connected to the grid. The project differs from other wind energy projects also with regard to the lease model; everybody in Hörstel who is affected by the operation of a wind power plant will receive lease payments, i.e. not only those residents on whose land the plants are erected. The four wind turbines in Uthuisen were connected to the grid in July 2017. In the near future, nine wind turbines are expected to produce 85.2 million kWh of electricity per year on the second section, Lager Feld. The community wind farm can thus feed electricity for 22,400 households into the grid. For comparison: Hörstel has about 8,600 households. Sustainability Report 2018 Green Bond 38 Some 520 t of CO 2 saved Kölner Cologne‘s Public Transport Authority Invests in Climate Protection Verkehrs-Betriebe AG ELECTROMOBILITY As early as the end of 2016, the Cologne public transport authority (KVB) converted eight vehicles on bus line 133 from diesel to e-mobility. Around 520 t of CO2 per year will be saved on the route between the Zollstock district and the central railway station. These are 18 m long articulated buses developed by Dutch manufacturer ­VDL Bus & Coach www.kvb.koeln bv according to the specifications of KVB and which are therefore unique in the world. By 2021, around 50 buses on another six KVB bus lines will be running emission-free, which will further reduce CO2 emissions by 4 to 5 million tonnes per year. The procurement process is already under way. NRW.BANK supports KVB in converting its entire bus operations to e-mobility and zero emissions by 2030. Under the NRW.BANK.Elektromobilität programme, which is refinanced via the NRW.BANK.Green Bond, NRW.BANK provides a promotional loan of approx. € 3.6 million to master the challenge of climate and environmental protection. Sustainability Report 2018 Green Bond 39 NRW.BANK.Green Bond Investment Portfolio NRW.BANK.Green Bond Investment Portfolio by Countries in % NRW.BANK continues to expand the Green Bond investment portfolio launched in 2017. The Bank is no longer merely an issuer of green bonds but also considers such bonds for its own investments. France 7 Australia 15 The Bank’s target to establish an NRW.BANK.Green Bond investment ­portfolio with a volume of at least € 200.0 million by 2020 was reached Benelux 18 ­already in late 2018. Consequently, NRW.BANK has raised its target to Ireland 29 ­at least € 300.0 million by 2020. Nordic countries 21 To qualify for this portfolio, bonds have to meet the Green Bond Principles Germany 10 (GBP) and publish corresponding reports. In addition, the environmental benefit of the bond must be determined by a second opinion or certificate meeting the standards of the Climate Bond Initiative. NRW.BANK primarily invests in climate protection and climate adaptation projects. In order to NRW.BANK.Green Bond Investment Portfolio by Sectors in % maximise the contribution to climate protection, light green bonds as defined in the CICERO Shades of Green are not purchased. As at 31 December 2018, the portfolio amounted to as much as € 209.0 Public Institutions million and comprised bonds from the following countries/regions with 48 Banks 52 terms of up to twelve years. Sustainability Report 2018 Green Bond 40 Maturity Structure of the Green Bond Investment Portfolio in € Millions The impact analyses of the issuers are based on different frameworks. The Nordic Public Sector Issuers’ Position Paper on Green Bonds Impact Reporting is used most frequently; issuers also use the MDB Harmonized 60 Framework for Impact Reporting or national benchmarks. 50 Based on the analysed investment volume of € 94.5 million, the result are savings of approx. 550 t of CO2 per million and year. 40 Sustainability Criteria for the Investment Portfolio 30 Since 2018, NRW.BANK has evaluated its investment portfolio in accordance with the MSCI sustainability criteria using a traffic light system for sustainable 20 investments. This sustainability traffic light indicates the MSCI-compliant share of the sustainability portfolio in the total investment portfolio by means 10 of the colours red, yellow and green. The traffic light system is monitored via a daily report. 0 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 2030 2031 Outlook In the context of the implementation of the Sustainability Guidelines in the investment business, NRW.BANK continues to aim for a high percentage The securities in the NRW.BANK.Green Bond investment portfolio are of sustainable investments. As of 2019, NRW.BANK will therefore begin green bonds whose funds raised are used by the issuers to invest in to anchor the Sustainability Guidelines in the specification sheets for the environmental projects, e.g. to promote renewable energy, sustainable NRW.BANK.Liquiditätskredit and the NRW.BANK.Kommunaldarlehen. buildings, low carbon transport and (waste) water management. A good The borrower thus assumes responsibility for ensuring that the relevant ­t wo thirds of the underlying assets are classified as “dark green”, almost principles (e.g. SDGs, state sustainability guidelines or sustainability guideone third as “medium green” and only slightly more than 1% as “light lines adopted by individual municipalities) are also taken into account in green” projects according to the CICERO Shades of Green. the use of the funds from the loan agreement. As seven of the 14 bonds were issued in the reporting year, no full report is available yet for investors. Impact analyses are available for the seven bonds issued before 2018. The investment volume of these bonds amounts to € 94.5 million. These bonds (co-)finance a large number of projects around the world. Sustainability Report 2018 Green Bond 41 // ECO-BALANCE For many years, NRW.BANK has been committed to the responsible use of our natural resources and the protection of our environment and climate. The Bank verifies the sustainability of its activity on an ongoing basis to ensure that it continues to improve. Nachhaltigkeitsbericht Strategie 42 Protecting the Climate and the Environment NRW.BANK actively supports the political and social sustainability efforts Data Collection and Reference Values and is doing everything possible also within the Bank to conserve resources As the data are collected in accordance with the VfU standard, they can be and ensure sustainable operations. The Bank thus helps implement the North compared with data of companies applying the same standard. The basis is Rhine-Westphalian government’s guiding principle of “sustainability”. formed by the VfU’s revised guidelines in conjunction with the conversion factors of the 2018 update 1.2 of 12 December 2018. The data presented The Bank uses resources consciously and carefully to reduce carbon emissions here is an extract from the 2018 eco-balance. In order to enable a direct from its operations to a minimum. It is the Bank’s declared objective to comparison with previous years, the CO2 values for 2016 and 2017 were ­vigorously cut the use of resources and to largely offset unavoidable impacts ­recalculated using the conversion factors of the 2018 VfU update. This may to the extent possible. To ensure that the positive trend in its environmental result in deviations from the data published in previous years. These are performance indicators continues, the Bank pays attention to resource-­ solely attributable to the updated conversion factors. efficient and energy-efficient technology, uses district heat and energy-­ efficient IT hardware in all its buildings and sources 100% certified green The number of employees utilised in this chapter provides the basis for the electricity from run-of-river hydropower plants. formation of relative environmental performance indicators (consumption per employee). Part-time employees are added up to full-time employees, For twelve years, NRW.BANK has prepared a balance sheet of its environand external employees working temporarily for the Bank are covered for mental data and consumption figures in accordance with the standards of the accurate to the day duration of their employment. For this eco-balance, the Association for Environmental Management and Sustainability in Financial 1,452 employees for 2018, 1,428 employees for 2017 and 1,409 employees Institutions (VfU). for 2016 are calculated as the sum of the company‘s own employees and the local employees of the service providers. Scope and Period of Reporting To prepare its eco-balance for 2018, NRW.BANK has determined the To calculate water consumption per employee/day the number of working environmental impacts resulting from its business operations. The Bank days was fixed at 250 days. ­operates at two locations in Düsseldorf and at a building complex in Münster. Building energy Resource-efficient energy sources such as certified green electricity from The reporting period corresponds to the calendar year. The consumption run-of-river hydropower plants and district heat from combined heat-and and flow data (input and output) were collected for the period from 1 January power units are the most important elements of NRW.BANK’s sustainable 2018 to 31 December 2018. Information relating to space, vehicles and building management efforts. These high environmental standards are ­employees is stated as of the reporting date 31 December 2018. ­implemented at all of the Bank’s locations. Sustainability Report 2018 Eco-Balance 43 Energy Consumption 2018 2017 2016 91.4% of the rail trips are classed as carbon neutral due to Deutsche Bahn AG’s carbon mitigation programme and are included in the CO2 balance at kWh kWh kWh ­a reduced conversion factor. The remaining 8.6% are business trips by Heating energy ­local public transport and the Thalys (altogether 83,349 km), which are – total 5,060,700 5,386,870 5,406,170 counted at the full conversion factor for carbon emissions according the – per employee/year 3,484 3,773 3,836 VfU standard. Electricity – total 5,918,385 5,678,066 5,846,930 As in the previous years, multi-leg flights1) were broken down into segments – per employee/year 4,075 3,977 4,148 for the reporting of short-haul and long-haul flights. In addition, the photovoltaic systems in Münster produced roughly 18 MWh With regard to NRW.BANK’s company cars, binding insights regarding the of electricity to cover the Bank’s own requirements in 2018. Overall, ­ relevant carbon emissions will be regulated only as of September 2018 once NRW.BANK makes a point of using energy-efficient technology. the regulations for the measurement technique for emissions (of new cars) are defined. More recent publications from the Federal Motor Transport In 2018, NRW.BANK’s consumption of thermal energy was down by Authority were not available at the time the eco-balance was published. approximately 6.1% on the previous year. Specific per-capita consumption Consequently, manufacturers’ specifications were again used for the present decreased by 7.7%. balance. Electricity requirements were up on the previous year, namely by 4.2% Due to the public uncertainty caused by the threat of driving bans for vehicles in absolute terms and by 2.5% per employee. with diesel engines, the proportion of vehicles with petrol engines and thus also the average CO2 emission factor rose for the first time in 2018 by 2.5% The changes in both thermal energy requirements and electricity to 132.5 g/km compared to 129.3 g/km in 2017. However, ongoing expert consumption are within the usual range of variation and are attributable advice on the selection of new company cars remains an important element to climatic and use-specific circumstances. in finding the best possible compromise between the necessary mobility of NRW.BANK’s employees and their efforts to actively protect the climate. Business Travel NRW.BANK’s success hinges on good contacts with its clients and the In its efforts to further reduce carbon emissions, NRW.BANK also offers its maintenance of its business relationships. Business trips are therefore company car owners the option of choosing electric cars. One electric vehicle ­indispensable. However, NRW.BANK has issued travel guidelines to was chosen in 2018. minimise the environmental impact of employees’ travelling activity. The recommendation to use video and telephone conferences and to travel by public transport is an important factor in reducing emissions from business trips. 1) Multi-leg flights comprise transfer flight and main flight. Sustainability Report 2018 Eco-Balance 44 NRW.BANK’s employees travelled a total of 4,736,230 km on business trips The breakdown of the travel activity by means of transport in 2018 remained in 2018. This is equivalent to 3,261 km travelled per employee. Compared to relatively stable compared to the previous years. At 58.4%, cars accounted the previous year, the total kilometres travelled thus increased by 2.5%, while for most of the business trips, followed by air travel (21.1%) and rail (20.5%). the kilometres travelled per employee remained almost constant at +0.8% Paper For the 2018 eco-balance, NRW.BANK recorded all paper used in the offices including printed matter (e.g. letterhead), envelopes and communication Business Travel 2018 2017 2016 materials (e.g. annual reports, brochures, flyers, etc.) as well as the external km km km printed output. Rail 968,843 897,897 915,722 Road1) 2,768,741 2,823,098 2,748,430 Total consumption in 2018 amounted to 57.1 t (previous year: 61.8 t), while Short-haul flights 321,492 320,051 342,905 per-capita consumption reached 42.5 kg (previous year: 43.3 kg). As a Long-haul flights 677,154 579,388 558,529 ­result of employees’ growing awareness and the increasing digitisation of business processes, total paper consumption could thus once again be Total 4,736,230 4,620,434 4,565,586 ­reduced. km per employee 3,261 3,236 3,239 1) total kilometres travelled on business trips with the Bank’s cars, rental cars and private vehicles This becomes even more obvious if only the consumption of office paper is considered. Excluding envelopes and printed matter, there was a clear ­reduction of 10.3% in absolute terms or 11.9% per employee: Share of Means of Transport in % Paper Consumption1) 2018 2017 2016 100 kg kg kg 14 13 12 Total 34,437 38,389 42,936 7 7 8 75 60 kg per employee 23.7 26.9 30.5 58 61 50 1) office paper, excl. printed matter, envelopes and marketing materials 25 21 Besides the quantity consumed, the quality of the paper used is also an 19 20 ­important item in the eco-balance. To determine the share of recycled 0 ­paper, all paper types used (excl. envelopes) were analysed. The share of 2018 2017 2016 ­recycled paper was once again increased strongly by 9.1% in 2018. Rail Road Short-haul flights Long-haul flights Sustainability Report 2018 Eco-Balance 45 Paper Grades The following figures show the total water consumption, which also in(excl. envelopes) 2018 2017 2016 cludes the water consumption of the kitchens at the locations in Münster % % % and at Kavalleriestraße in Düsseldorf. Recycled paper 77.8 65.8 63.4 Primary fibre paper, ECF1) Absolute water consumption across all locations was up by 18.8% on the (incl. wood-free) 9.4 8.8 12.8 previous year, while per-capita consumption increased by 16.7%. This is Primary fibre paper, FSC and mainly due to weather-related influences. PEFC2) 12.8 25.4 23.8 Process and Drinking Water 2018 2017 2016 1) Elemental chlorine-free (ECF) 2) Forest Stewardship Council (FSC), Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification Total consumption 23,564 m³ 19,841 m³ 22,266 m³ schemes (PEFC) Daily consumption per employee1) 64.9 l 55.6 l 63.2 l As part of an optimised reporting practice, NRW.BANK decided to fully 1) To calculate water consumption per employee, the number of working days was fixed ­determine the paper grades of all paper used. According to this complete at 250 days. data determined for the first time for 2016 – which also include envelopes and printed matter – recycled paper accounted for 72.3% in 2018 (2017: Waste 61.2%). The 2018 eco-balance covers the following waste types: paper (incl. documents shredded), mixed packaging, food residues, waste fats, green waste, glass, Paper Grades (incl. printed residual waste, sludge from the company’s own water treatment, mixed matter and envelopes) 2018 2017 2016 scrap, electronic waste, data carriers, bulky waste, oily waste and fluorescent % % % lamps. Recycled paper 72.3 61.2 60.2 Primary fibre paper, ECF1) The specific average weights of the waste fractions determined for the (incl. wood-free) 10.7 10.5 14.1 ­individual sites in 2017 were also used to determine the weight quantities Primary fibre paper, FSC and ­in 2018 as the composition of the waste remained unchanged. PEFC2) 17.0 28.3 25.7 Where available, the concrete quantities and weights supplied by the waste 1) Elemental chlorine-free (ECF) management service providers for individual waste disposal processes were 2) Forest Stewardship Council (FSC), Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification schemes (PEFC) again used for the evaluation. Water Taking the waste types mentioned as well as the empirically determined Water is a precious resource and NRW.BANK is actively promoting its conversion factors into account, the Bank produced a total of 258.2 t of sparing use. The Bank’s sanitary facilities use grey water from the air waste in 2018 (previous year: 268.5 t). This is equivalent to 177.8 kg of scrubbers and recooling systems and thus ensure that this water is reused. waste per employee (previous year: 188.1 kg). When retrofitting or buying new technical equipment, water-saving technology is considered besides other environmental aspects. Sustainability Report 2018 Eco-Balance 46 This shows that the trend towards a reduction in total waste volumes observed CO2 Emissions 2018 2017 2016 in the past years continued in 2018. Total waste and waste per employee kg CO2 kg CO2 kg CO2 declined by 3.8% and 5.5%, respectively. Electricity 41,407 39,814 41,134 Heating energy The following table shows the amounts of waste produced exclusively as incl. emergency 589,880 626,625 625,472 ­a result of the banking activity and excluding waste primarily produced in Business travel 1,092,825 1,094,701 1,069,642 conjunction with the operation of the kitchen: Paper 61,933 67,143 62,859 Drinking water 15,623 13,155 14,762 Waste Volume 2018 2017 2016 Waste 59,527 60,645 100,161 t t t Total emissions 1,861,195 1,902,083 1,914,030 Waste paper 27.8 29.3 53.5 CO2 /employee 1,281 1,332 1,358 Document shredding 46.5 51.0 61.4 Offset by Residual waste 40.5 34.2 108.5 climate certificates 1,861,195 1,902,083 1,914,030 DSD (“Green Dot”) 11.0 10.5 3.6 Total 0 0 0 Total1) 125.8 125.0 227.0 kg/employee 86.7 87.6 161.1 Recycling ratio1) 69.7% 72.6% 53.2% CO2 Emissions by Producers in % 1) excl. other and kitchen waste 100 7 7 9 The efficient use of office paper is also reflected in a reduced amount of 75 59 58 56 waste paper to be disposed of. 50 Greenhouse Gases 32 33 33 NRW.BANK’s CO2 balance covers all the above-mentioned environmentally 25 relevant consumption figures and wastes as well as the quantity of emergency power diesel used summarised in a single performance indicator. This 0 2 2 2 ­performance indicator is an important parameter for assessing the Bank’s 2018 2017 2016 environmental performance. Electricity Heating energy Business travel Other For the 2018 eco-balance, the conversion factors of the VfU standard, 2018 update 1.2, were for the first time used as the basis for the calculation of In 2018, NRW.BANK issued a total of 1,861 tons of CO2 (-2.1% year-on-year). the CO2 emissions. In order to ensure comparability with previous years, This is equivalent to 1,281 kg of CO2 per employee (-3.8% year-on-year). the emission values for 2017 and 2016 were recalculated with the updated factors. This may result in deviations from the data published in the past A significant portion of the decline is due to the effects of weather conditions two years. on the use of heating energy. Sustainability Report 2018 Eco-Balance 47 Direct and Indirect CO2 Emissions at NRW.BANK in 2018 According to VfU (Update 2018, Version 2.1) Greenhouse Gas Sources Scope 11) Scope 21) Scope 31) Total kg CO2 kg CO2 kg CO2 kg CO2 Electricity 41,407 – renewable 39,237 39,237 – photovoltaic plant 2,170 2,170 Heating energy 589,880 – district heat 459,410 117,712 577,122 – emergency power diesel 10,657 2,101 12,758 Travel 918,943 – rail 4,092 4,092 – rail, carbon-neutralised 8,324 8,324 – road, company car 412,700 312,218 724,918 – road, rental car 181,609 181,609 – short-haul flights 54,832 54,832 – long-haul flights 119,050 119,050 Paper 61,933 – recycled paper 44,646 44,646 – primary fibre paper (ECF, TCF, FSC, PEFC) 17,287 17,287 Water 15,623 15,623 Waste 59,527 – waste incineration 56,787 56,787 – special waste 2,740 2,740 Total 423,357 459,410 978,428 1,861,195 kg CO2/employee 1,281 1) Distinction between direct and indirect emissions: Direct greenhouse gas emissions come from sources owned or controlled by NRW.BANK. Indirect greenhouse gas emissions result from the business activity of NRW.BANK – but their sources are owned or controlled by third parties. In accordance with the “Greenhouse Gas Protocol”, emissions are divided into three categories depending on the degree of influence exerted by NRW.BANK: – Emission category (Scope 1): all direct emissions. – Emission category (Scope 2): all indirect emissions produced, for instance, in the generation of electricity, steam or thermal energy sourced by NRW.BANK from external sources. – Emission category (Scope 3): all other indirect emissions in the field of logistics, material consumption, supplies and disposal. This also includes the emissions produced by service providers or manufacturing companies and their upstream suppliers. Sustainability Report 2018 Eco-Balance 48 Avoiding Preferred to Offsetting The CO2 emissions of 1,861 t produced in 2018 were voluntarily offset by the Since 2013, NRW.BANK has consistently aimed to make its banking operations Bank by purchasing certificates from a wind farm project in Inner Mongolia. carbon-neutral. In this context, top priority is attached to avoiding emissions from being generated in the first place. To achieve this aim, the Bank has The analysis also covers the emissions resulting from postal communication implemented the above-described measures for many years – including the with its clients. Since 2015, NRW.BANK has dispatched its mail via the use of certified green electricity, environmentally friendly district heat, ­carbon-neutral GOGREEN programme of Deutsche Post DHL Group. In 2018, ­recycled office paper and grey water from air scrubbers and cooling systems 508,711 letters were mailed under this programme. Carbon emissions resulting as well as providing expert assistance when it comes to choosing new from this transport totalled around 19 t. Due to the Bank’s participation in ­company cars. the GOGREEN programme, these emissions were neutralised with the help of climate protection projects. As emissions were not entirely unavoidable, NRW.BANK decided in 2013 ­to neutralise emissions caused by its banking operations with the help of certificates from the NRW.BANK Climate Certificate Programme. These certificates stem from global climate protection projects and help to achieve the highest possible CO2 savings in relation to the financial expenses incurred in the process. Sustainability Report 2018 Eco-Balance 49 // HUMAN RESOURCES As a public-law institute NRW.BANK has a special responsibility to act as a role model for a sustainable human resources policy. This comprises all aspects from offering future-proof training to balancing work and family life to ensuring equal opportunities and implementing a modern health management. Nachhaltigkeitsbericht Strategie 50 Assuming Social Responsibility for Employees The knowledge, commitment and performance of the staff are important factors which underpin the long-term success of the Bank’s business activity. The strategic objectives of the Bank’s Human Resources activities therefore include winning and retaining qualified employees and preserving their performance to ensure that NRW.BANK can successfully fulfil its tasks as the promotional bank for North Rhine-Westphalia now and also in future. Award-winning In the context of the Bank’s human resources strategy, this overriding goal vocational training involves three fields of action which ensure that all activities and measures support the accomplishment of the strategic objectives: In a survey conducted on behalf of Focus Money under the securing junior staff, title “Germany’s best providers of vocational training in 2018”, facilitating development and NRW.BANK was voted one of the companies offering the best maintaining employees’ performance. vocational training. Scoring 97.5 of 100 points, the promotional bank achieved a similarly good result as in the previous year. The high relevance of these goals is not least reflected in the fact that the strategic fields of action and the medium and long-term objectives derived In addition, NRW.BANK supports the Fair Company initiative, from them form part of the Bank’s overall strategy. which focuses on interns, working students, job starters and trainees. As a “Fair Company”, NRW.BANK is primarily comSecuring Junior Staff mitted to reliable quality standards and verifiable rules for “Securing junior staff” sums up NRW.BANK’s commitment to training young ­interns. people and improving their qualifications. To ensure that junior staff can integrate smoothly into the Bank’s existing workforce, their training is carefully aligned with the Bank’s needs in general and the individual departments’ needs in particular. This constant balancing leads to changes in the number of apprenticeships and traineeships as well as to amendments in terms of the course curricula and the job roles the young people are trained for. Sustainability Report 2018 Human Resources 51 In 2018, NRW.BANK was again able to fill all available positions in the three This includes challenging tasks and growing independence, which encourage traineeships it offers: professional and personal growth, as well as the possibility to get to learn new topics and to assume more demanding tasks. In 2018, NRW.BANK Seven school-leavers were signed up for a banking clerk traineeship, ­adjusted the appraisal procedure to focus even more strongly on these ideas: three of them in Münster, the aspects of autonomy, development and recognition are now central issues four young people opted for the dual study course Bachelor of Arts in the annual interview between executives and employees. In addition, a “Banking & Finance” and new element has been developed which allows employees to initiate an exthree enrolled in the dual study course Bachelor of Science “Business change about their individual development opportunities and the necessary Information Systems”. implementation steps independently of the appraisal process. Given that NRW.BANK trains young people to cover its own requirements, Realising development opportunities means above all taking on new tasks permanent employment contracts are offered to all apprentices who comand responsibilities. To ensure that this can be done on the largest possible plete their apprenticeships with good results. As the commercial apprenticescale, NRW.BANK fills vacant positions according to the motto “internal ship was changed to a banking clerk apprenticeship in 2016, all apprentices promotion is preferable to external hiring” wherever this is possible. Where who completed their training in 2018 came from dual study courses. All this cannot be done, vacant positions are advertised externally. nine accepted the permanent employment contract they were offered. In addition, one trainee took up a position after successfully completing the As a result, 99 employees changed their positions due to redeployments trainee programme in 2018. ­in 2018. As internal staffing usually results in a new vacant position, a ­consistently pursued internal staffing policy is ideally suited to offer the In view of the age structure of NRW.BANK’s workforce, the Bank continues Bank’s own employees the widest possible range of career development to pay great attention to its objective to “secure junior staff”. The Bank wants opportunities within the Bank. Moreover, 23 employees returned to the its trainees and apprentices to replace at least part of the employees who Bank from parental leave or from leave granted under the Landesgleichwill leave the Bank due to age in the coming years. stellungsgesetz (State Equal Opportunities Act) in 2018. Facilitating Development As NRW.BANK’s headcount continued to grow in 2018, it was not possible In order to ensure their long-term retention, NRW.BANK offers its junior staff to fill all vacancies without hiring external staff. – as well as all its other employees – numerous development opportunities and prospects. Sustainability Report 2018 Human Resources 52 Vacant Positions Filled in 2018 NRW.BANK continues to actively support the restructuring process of ­Portigon AG by taking over former employees of Portigon AG (shown in External Hiring Internal Changes 59 99 ­the chart under “External Hiring”) or by arranging employment opportunities in ministries and companies of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia. In 2018, 14 people changed from Portigon AG to NRW.BANK, with another eight starting to work for the State of NRW. Permanent Employment of Temporary Staff 9 Employees Returning from Employment after the Parental Leave (excluding Short Completion of Leaves) 23 Training Programmes 10 Age Structure1) in % 25 20 15 10 5 0 up to 20 21–25 26–30 31–35 36–40 41–45 46–50 51–55 56–60 over 60 years years years years years years years years years years 2018 2017 2016 1) excluding employees on parental leave as well as employees under temporary contracts Sustainability Report 2018 Human Resources 53 Age-related resignations will remain at a similar level in the coming years A comprehensive catalogue of regular seminars covers a range of professional ­ s a result of the workforce’s age structure. Forward-looking planning a subjects both at basic and specialist level, aspects of methodological and ­ensures that measures to retain expertise within the Bank are taken at behavioural competence as well as structured and multi-layered leadership an early stage. In accordance with the Bank’s strategic objective, these skill acquisition. This catalogue has been developed and refined in recent foreseeable resignations will be used to offer junior staff suitable career years, with current professional subjects being added in response to actual development opportunities. demand on an ongoing basis. Life-long Learning Knowledge and experience are indispensable when it comes to grasping Internal Seminar Attendance by Topic and mastering new challenges. NRW.BANK provides a wide variety of HR development measures to support its employees in this respect. After the 1,200 initial training, NRW.BANK assists employees, for instance in obtaining the 210 1,000 above-mentioned qualifications and degrees by bearing (part of) the study and examination fees. This programme was expanded in 2018 to include 800 345 four IT-related Bachelor’s and Master’s degrees in line with the Bank‘s 249 192 600 ­requirements. In 2018, 18 employees obtained such a degree with support 29 44 205 from the Bank. 400 125 139 359 361 402 200 In addition, NRW.BANK offers its employees a comprehensive range of seminars for professional and personal growth. Most of these seminars are 0 held internally1). Over time this form of training has proven to be a great 2018 2017 2016 success and has met with a very positive response from all employees due Specialist Management IT Methods/Behaviour to the high quality of courses offered and how pertinent they are to the Bank’s needs and requirements. 1) Internal seminars are all events organised exclusively for the Bank’s employees at NRW.BANK’s special request and whose contents and concepts closely meet the Bank’s specific requirements and needs; such seminars may be held by in-house or external trainers. Sustainability Report 2018 Human Resources 54 The internal catalogue of seminars comprises 72 different subjects, for More than half of NRW.BANK’s executives have meanwhile completed the which 126 seminars were organised in the reporting year. The diversity of final module. In order to support an ongoing consideration and discussion the topics covered was once again expanded compared to the previous of leadership issues, the Bank regularly offers workshops on related topics year. By contrast, the number of participants was much lower than in the for this target group. Since 2015, joint work in these workshops has focused previous year. The very high number of participants in the previous year on the defined “principles for communication, cooperation and leadership was mainly due to special measures such as an IT seminar on software used at NRW.BANK”. In 2018, the workshops on „Constructive Cooperation“ were in the promotional business units and a seminar offered to all executives in launched. These workshops also address the requirements and options of connection with the change of the remuneration system. NRW.BANK‘s adjusted appraisal system. To train its executives, NRW.BANK offers them a multi-part systematic The offerings for executives are rounded off by supplementary measures e ­ xecutive development programme, completion of which is mandatory. enabling executives to handle special leadership situations. In addition to an entry module, there are two follow-up modules for more experienced executives. All modules comprise several days of training which Individualised seminars have been developed also for other employee groups. are spread over a longer period of time to enable participants to process In the reporting year, for example, the seminar series “Stark im Gespräch” developments and improve the transfer of learnings into practice. For the (Effective Conversation) was established to promote self-confidence and launch date in April 2019, the content of the central module was revised by open interaction in all (communication) situations. 15 such training courses ­a new team of trainers and adapted to the current requirements of the were already held in 2018 and met with a very good response; the series is ­executives at NRW.BANK. to be continued on a similar scale in the coming years. Since 2012, there has been a series of 5.5-day workshops targeted at employees aged 50+. ­A seminar for women gives inspirations and strategies for more efficient and less stressful handling of the dual roles typically fulfilled by women, namely as members of the workforce on the one hand and as household/ family managers on the other. Further measures for the promotion of equal opportunities will follow in 2019. Sustainability Report 2018 Human Resources 55 A new series of moderation training courses will support employees in Equal Opportunities and Fair Working Conditions ­ articular for their deployment in external projects, conferences, training p For many years, NRW.BANK has and consulting. ­pursued a policy of supporting the ­balance of work and family life and In addition to the extensive range of internal offerings, the employees of promoting equal opportunities. In NRW.BANK may also take part in seminars organised by external providers. 2015, this NRW.BANK policy received The absolute number of external seminar participations increased once the “berufundfamilie” certification. again compared to the previous year. Close to 90% of these seminars were The 2018 re-audit confirmed that professional seminars that are only relevant for a limited number of employees, NRW.BANK may bear the certificate which means that it would have been uneconomical to organise them interfor another three years. nally. Aspects that were regarded as particularly positive include the self-management of working time, the individual and flexible part-time schemes, the Ratio of Internal and External Seminar Attendance possibility to assume management roles also when working reduced hours and, last but not least, the comprehensive range of child care services. 100% 524 404 373 These services are provided, for instance, in the form of day care facilities, 75% emergency and holiday care services as well as a child care allowance. 1,121 ­Employees whose relatives are in need of care receive support in the form 762 50% of advice and services for their care and support. 753 25% These offerings especially for children below school age assist young families in balancing work and family life. 0% 2018 2017 2016 The past years’ trend towards a fast return of young mothers and short Internal External ­parental leaves of fathers continued in 2018: 70.0% of the mothers returned to work after a period of parental leave of twelve months or less. In addition, 29 fathers made use of the option to take parental leave, a few of them for more than two months. A two-year test phase for the more extensive use of alternating telework started in spring 2017. The insights gained during this period are to be used to adopt a final telework regulation. Sustainability Report 2018 Human Resources 56 The equal opportunities statistics for 2018 confirm the high acceptance Share of Women and Men in Executive Positions in % and success of the support offered to date. As more and more employees are taking advantage of the flexible and individualised working hour 100% schemes, the percentage of part-time employees once again picked up 33 31 32 slightly to 34% as of 31 December 2018 (previous year: 33%). The average 75% working hour percentage of women and men working part time amounted 67 69 68 to 69% and 85%, respectively. The share of executives working part time – 50% also due to the possibility to flexibilise their annual working time – stood at 19%. 25% The share of women in executive positions across all management levels in0% cluding the Managing Board increased from 31% to 33% as of 31 December 2018 2017 2016 2018. The Bank maintained the tried-and-tested measures – especially the Men Women effective targeting and promotion of female young talent – of the previous years to increase the share of women. According to the guidelines for the filling of executive positions, women have to be increasingly considered for NRW.BANK’s Equal Opportunities Officer is closely involved in the current such positions. At 41%, the continuously high share of women in positions activities aimed at improving the development opportunities for women. without leadership responsibility and not covered by collective agreements This applies in particular to social, organisational and personnel-related forms a good basis for this. measures including job offers, selection processes and job interviews. She will also participate in the preparation and updating of the Equality As of 2019 – when the first Equality Plan after the amendment of the NRW Plan, which comprises all pertinent measures, and report annually on its State Equality Act (LGG NRW) will be adopted – individual quotas will be implementation. specified for the individual management levels. NRW.BANK’s Equal Opportunities Officer also serves as the designated complaint recipient within the meaning of the German Equal Treatment Act (AGG). Should, in spite of the measures taken, employees be disadvantaged or harassed because of their ethnic background, gender, religion, belief or handicap, age or sexual identity, they may contact the complaints unit. As in the previous years, no incident was reported to the complaints unit in 2018. Sustainability Report 2018 Human Resources 57 A fair and adequate remuneration system is one of the working conditions For NRW.BANK, health means much more than just the absence of illness. that have a notable impact on the satisfaction and the loyalty of the employees. Its health promotion activities therefore aim to encourage healthy behaviour and reduce avoidable strains in the workplace. Therefore, the focus is on Since its inception, NRW.BANK has, in consensus with its owner, focused the question “what keeps people healthy in the long term”? its remuneration system and remuneration parameters on the promotional and development tasks performed by it. Accordingly, its remuneration strategy is derived from the Bank’s overall strategy taking into account its statutes, corporate culture and values. For a detailed presentation of the remuneration system, please see the Financial Report 2018. In accordance with the requirements of the Remuneration Transparency Act, the Bank’s “Report on Equal Opportunities and Equal Pay”, which was published for the first time in the notes to the 2017 Management Report, describes the measures taken to promote equal opportunities for women and men in terms of the filling of vacant positions, personnel development NRW.BANK has been voted one of the TOP 100 “LEADING and work-life balance and how structural inequalities in the remuneration EMPLOYERS Germany 2018” from among more than 70,000 policy are excluded. The latter is ensured, in particular, by means of a job companies across Germany. In the independent survey, appraisal that is exclusively based on the requirements of the respective the Bank made 17th place in the Banks/Financial Services position, i.e. irrespectively of the person. In doing so, the Bank bases its category, which covered 1,500 companies, and was ranked decisions regarding positions covered by collective agreements on the 89th among all companies surveyed. ­requirements of the “Manteltarifvertrag für das private Bankgewerbe und die öffentlichen Banken” (basic collective agreement for private sector and In the „Great Place to Work 2018 – IT“ competition, which public-sector banks) and for positions not covered by collective agreements is organised annually by Computerwoche magazine and the on external remuneration comparisons. international consulting institute “Great Place to Work”, NRW.BANK was voted one of the best employers in the Maintaining Performance information and telecommunications industry upon its very first participation. In the ranking of medium-sized companies, it Occupational Safety and Health Management scored an excellent 17th place. Good working conditions and exemplary health and safety policies form part of NRW.BANK’s corporate responsibility. For many years, the Bank has ­implemented this in the context of its occupational health management system, which has been expanded continuously since 2006. Services range from a company doctor to a social counsellor offering confidential help to a variety of offerings revolving around such topics as preventive medicine, nutrition and sports. Sustainability Report 2018 Human Resources 58 An important tool to identify strains in good time is a systematic hazard An anonymous employee survey will form part of this evaluation in 2019. analysis. All employees are regularly asked about potentially hazardous ­circumstances and stress factors at work. In order to obtain a more comThe NRW.BANK Health Check was launched in 2018 as a new, ongoing prehensive picture, the focus is placed on varying topics when the survey service for all employees. In this context, the company doctor determines ­is repeated. Thanks to the collaboration between the responsible persons – values for health behaviour and risk factors. The NRW.BANK Health Check especially the Occupational Safety Officer, the company doctor, the staff may be repeated every two years, which allows the participants to identify council, the Social Officer, building management as well as the managers changes in their health over time. and executives – any strains identified by the survey are usually eliminated in an unbureaucratic way. The Bank’s health management offerings, which are usually free, are available to all employees. NRW.BANK has established two working groups to address the health ­protection issue to the benefit of all employees: Under the motto „Wir für Andere” (We are there for others), employees of NRW.BANK also make health-related contributions to society, e.g. as part The Occupational Safety Committee advises the Bank on all matters of the annual blood donation campaign organised in cooperation with the of occupational safety as well as accident prevention. Its members German Red Cross at both Bank locations, in which a large number of comprise representatives of the Bank, the staff council, the company ­employees participate every year. Since 2018, employees have additionally doctor, the representatives of the severely disabled, a Safety Officer been able to have their bone marrow typed by the company doctor in and the Occupational Safety Officer. cooperation with the Bone Marrow Donation Centre in Düsseldorf. The Health Working Circle further develops the strategic health management and decides concrete measures. In addition to the human All current occupational health and safety measures as well as NRW.BANK’s ­resources staff responsible for health management, the regular meetfuture plans are detailed in the annual health report which is published on ings are attended by the company doctor, the social counsellor, the the Bank’s intranet. Occupational Safety Officer, the representatives of the severely disabled as well as a representative of the staff council. To ensure that the services Preventive check-ups, no matter how expertly planned and performed, cannot provided by the staff restaurant can also be reasonably integrated, the entirely prevent illnesses. NRW.BANK’s post-illness reintegration management circle of participants also includes the catering services. system – an offering aimed at defining individualised measures matched to the working environment through personal talks with employees affected As the relevant areas of health were intensively addressed in the previous by illness – helps employees restart work after long illness and stabilise years by means of various themed measures, the Health Working Circle their health in the long term. The Bank is very much aware of the sensitive ­decided to use the year 2018 for an analysis of the health status and the personal issues touched by this process and attaches the utmost importance health behaviour of NRW.BANK’s employees. The results are intended to to respecting the discretionary decision of the people affected to accept or align the range of health promotion measures even more closely with the reject this option as well as to ensuring absolute confidentiality and data requirements and wishes of the people concerned. protection. Sustainability Report 2018 Human Resources 59 Flexible Annual Working Hours Flexible Working Lifetime NRW.BANK offers its employees very flexible agreements to reduce their Especially against the background of the age structure and the expected regular working hours. In addition, the Bank provides two more possibilities retirement of a large number of specialists within the course of a few years, that allow employees to increase the flexibility of their working time: NRW.BANK developed a regulation governing the old-age part-time work scheme in 2018. This has several advantages for both the Bank and its Since 2013, NRW.BANK has offered its employees the option to take up workforce: NRW.BANK will have a better possibility to control and manage to two months of unpaid leave of absence in addition to the paid vacations. critical age-related staff departures as well as the necessary know-how This option was used by 17 employees in the reporting year. transfer. Successor planning will be possible over a longer-term period, Introduced in 2016, the possibility to take ten additional days off per ­allowing the Bank to offer specific development opportunities to qualified year against a corresponding reduction of the salary is very popular junior staff at an earlier stage. Old-age part-time work also caters to among the workforce. In 2018, 119 employees took advantage of this employees’ wish for a flexible transition into retirement. In 2018, twelve offer. As of 2019, the option to take an additional five days off will employees already submitted an application to start old-age part-time ­additionally be introduced. This will increase the number of users to work in 2019. 205 in 2019. Sustainability Report 2018 Human Resources 60 NRW.BANK Personnel Figures as at 31 December 2018 2018 2017 2016 absolute in % absolute in % absolute in % Active employees, total 1) 1,365 100% 1,319 100% 1,301 100% by sex – women 708 51.9% 688 52.2% 682 52.4% – men 657 48.1% 631 47.8% 619 47.6% by company location – Düsseldorf 963 70.5% 926 70.2% 898 69.0% – Münster 402 29.5% 393 29.8% 403 31.0% by type of employment – full time 908 66.5% 889 67.4% 926 71.2% – part time 457 33.5% 430 32.6% 375 28.8% by function group – management (incl. Managing Board) 252 18.5% 244 18.5% 234 18.0% – specialists/project workers 596 43.7% 553 41.9% 523 40.2% – case workers 410 30.0% 419 31.8% 437 33.6% – secretaries 50 3.7% 46 3.5% 47 3.6% – non-commercial functions 51 3.7% 51 3.9% 54 4.2% – special functions2) 6 0.4% 6 0.5% 6 0.5% By remuneration – collective pay 841 61.6% 823 62.4% 840 64.6% – non-collective pay 524 38.4% 496 37.6% 461 35.4% Total average age (in years) 45.4 45.0 44.6 Average period of employment (in years) 16.6 16.3 16.4 Total departures 39 2.9% 51 3.9% 48 3.7% – due to termination 18 1.3% 17 1.3% 21 1.6% – due to age 21 1.5% 34 2.6% 27 2.1% Additionally: temporary employees 36 33 34 Additionally: apprentices and trainees – trainees 0 2 3 1) excl. employees on leave according to – apprentices 49 45 34 BEEG and LGG, excluding apprentices/ trainees as well as employees under – thereof new apprenticeships 14 19 16 temporary contracts – completed apprenticeships 9 7 17 2) Staff council members released – hiring rate (unlimited) 100.0% 100.0% 88.2% from their duties Sustainability Report 2018 Human Resources 61 // CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP NRW.BANK is aware of its social responsibility. Every year, it supports projects from the fields of “Science & Education”, “Arts & Culture” as well as “Society & Social Affairs” that contribute to society and the quality of life in North Rhine-Westphalia. Nachhaltigkeitsbericht Strategie 62 Showing Commitment to Society NRW.BANK also lives up to its corporate responsibility through its contriScience & Education butions to public and community life in North Rhine-Westphalia. Suitable The Bank’s concept of corporate citizenship calls for the promotion of measures are supported in accordance with the Bank’s “Guidelines for ­creativity and ideas as well as education-related topics for a young target ­Corporate Citizenship and Other Services” adopted by the Supervisory group. The Bank consequently focused on sponsorships related to education Board. in 2018 and supported several projects from the field of “Science & Education”. The most important funding projects, apart from cooperation with universities, The Bank is committed to making its decisions on grants and sponsorships were: transparent and comprehensible. Within the Bank, the Managing Board is responsible for the allocation of the funds available for corporate citizenship EDUCATION Y Bildung. Gemeinsam. Gestalten. e. V., Düsseldorf purposes. The Supervisory Board’s Executive and Nomination Committee Since 2015, NRW.BANK has supported the state programme of the NRW is the highest controlling body for the allocation of the funds. Ministry for School and Education developed by EDUCATION Y in cooperation with UNICEF on “primary school children’s rights”. Teachers and eduThe funds made available by NRW.BANK benefit projects in North Rhine-­ cational staff are trained in implementing the participatory idea of the UN Westphalia. Convention on the Rights of the Child in schools using suitable formats such as the installation of class councils. The idea is to offer school children As part of its commitment to society and under its remit as a promotional ­effective development opportunities, to allow them to assume responsibility bank, NRW.BANK endeavours to shape a subsidiarity-based and projectby helping to shape their own learning process and to give them protection. related collaboration with its partners. In this context, the Bank strives to ensure the social and regional balance of its activities in North Rhine-WestSchool Cooperations in Düsseldorf and Münster phalia. The corporate citizenship budget is divided into the following three Since 2007, NRW.BANK has financed study and job orientation workshops categories: “Science & Education”, “Arts & Culture” and “Society & Social at four schools, namely Cecilien-Gymnasium and Hauptschule St. Benedikt Affairs”. in Düsseldorf as well as Freiherr-vom-Stein-Gymnasium and Hauptschule Coerde in Münster. Pupils are given the opportunity to discover their own In 2018, NRW.BANK spent a total amount of € 826,000 on donations, sponsor­ strengths, talents and interests for their future careers. Parents are involved ships or memberships in North Rhine-Westphalia. The corresponding projects in the project and learn how to assist their children in finding the right are presented as examples below. ­occupation. The Bank also finances a state-wide further training programme for teachers to enable them to advise their pupils effectively with regard to their career choices. Sustainability Report 2018 Corporate Citizenship 63 Schlaun-Forum e. V., Münster For the tenth consecutive year, NRW.BANK organised two evening concerts Since 2011, the Bank has supported the “Schlaun Competition” for students in the foyer of its Düsseldorf building in cooperation with the “düsseldorf from the 5th semester as well as graduates up to the age of 35 of the fields festival!” held annually in September. The first concert starred “Trio Biondini, of study of urban development, architecture, landscape planning and civil Godard, Niggli”, while the second concert was performed by Masaa Quartet. engineering. Every year, a new location is chosen for which urban planning and development solutions are to be found. One of the objectives of the NRW.BANK employees volunteered at all concerts, serving beverages and competition is to encourage creative young talent to come up with new snacks to the guests. The proceeds of € 3,300 were doubled by NRW.BANK ­ideas for the creation of forward-looking, energy-efficient and sustainable and donated to the “JeKits” foundation to allow children attending music housing as well as with adequate solutions to the traffic situation in currently schools in North Rhine-Westphalia to share the aesthetic experience of problematic city centres. Paderborn has been chosen as the location for playing musical instruments, dancing and singing in a group. the 8th Schlaun Competition 2018/2019, where a former military site will be redeveloped. NRW.BANK.Kunstpreis In accordance with its arts policy, NRW.BANK has sponsored up-and-­ Arts & Culture coming artists since 2010. In 2017, the Bank launched an annual art award NRW.BANK’s sponsoring activities in the field “Arts & Culture” focused on at all state art schools in North Rhine-Westphalia. The principals of the the promotion of young talent. participating colleges and universities nominate students or graduates for the categories “Painting & Graphic Design”, “Photography & Media Design” Concerts by Young Artists and Corporate Volunteering and “Sculpture & Installation”. The winners are chosen by a jury of renowned In the reporting year, the Bank again supported cultural events at its two regional arts experts. The works of the participants will be presented to locations by making available its premises: the public at annual exhibitions alternating between Düsseldorf and Münster. In the context of the “CHAPEAU classique” music festival, which has been In October 2018, NRW.BANK awarded the prizes totalling € 33,000 on the held annually since 2011, NRW.BANK’s staff restaurant in Münster served occasion of a festive exhibition opening in Münster. as the venue for a performance by Carlos Navarros and the string quartet of the Dortmund Philharmonic Orchestra in September. The same venue had been chosen in July for a “Summerwinds Festival” concert starring the Fetén Fetén Duo and clarinettist Jou Gonzales. As in the past, both concerts were organised in cooperation with “Gesellschaft zur Förderung der Westfälischen Kulturarbeit e. V.”, Münster. Sustainability Report 2018 Corporate Citizenship 64 Lit.COLOGNE, Cologne Bees are of great ecological importance as they make a significant The promotional concept was revised in 2018. NRW.BANK sponsors the contribution to the preservation of wild and cultivated plants and their new Lit.Kid.COLOGNE format, which is targeted at children and young yields. Local bee protection additionally supports the urban biodiversity. people. A similar project was realised in Münster in 2018. More NRW.BANK Cultural Sponsorships Employee Commitment / Christmas Activity NRW.BANK sponsors the Young Talent Award presented at the International Since 2017, NRW.BANK has made available a total annual amount of Short Film Festival Oberhausen. The Bank also supported the piano concertos € 20,000 to support the honorary work of its employees in charitable by Mao Fujita and Yekon at the Ruhr Piano Festival as well as the German ­organisations. In 2018, amounts of € 4,000 each were donated to: Förder­ premiere of “The Welcome Party” at the Ruhrtriennale – a theatre experience verein der Klimakommune Saerbeck e. V. (for the project“Referent für die for children aged 8+. Umwelthelden“, an environmental education programme for children and young people); VTV Mongshof e. V., Mönchengladbach (for the project Society & Social Affairs “therapeutisches Reiten”, revitalisation of people with disabilities); KinderNRW.BANK attaches special importance to promoting responsible behaviour krebshilfe Münster e. V. (for the project „All of Us“, the choir and band proin socially relevant areas. ject of the Children’s Oncology Ward at the UKM); Sportverein 1924 Glehn e.V. (for the project “Einsatz eines FSJlers in Kooperation mit der GrundSpecial Petit Départ, Düsseldorf schule Glehn“) and SG Benrath-Hassels 1910/12 e.V. (for the project “Will­ NRW.BANK supported the Düsseldorf Sports Office in organising the “Special kommen im Fußball”). Petit Départ”. Some 170 pupils with special needs took part in the cycling sports day for students attending the special-needs schools in Düsseldorf, During the festive season, NRW.BANK employees supported socially disMettmann, Erkrath and Ratingen in summer 2018. advantaged children and young people in NRW: in Düsseldorf, employees donated presents to the Richardstraße primary school in the Eller district, Eine Welt Mobil, Münster while the elementary classes of the PRIMUS school in the Berg Fidel disThe Bank has supported the „Eine Welt Netz NRW” van for seven years. The trict received presents from the Bank’s employees in Münster. team helps teach pupils and kindergarten children responsible and social behaviour. The donation helped to fund over 60 uses of the “Eine Welt” van. Apart from making presents, the employees additionally donated approx. € 4,980 to three institutions for which employees of NRW.BANK work on Kreisimkerverband Düsseldorf im Imkerverband Rheinland e. V. / an honorary basis: „All of Us“, the choir and band project of KinderkrebApsis e. V., Münster shilfe Münster e. V., “gutenachtbus” from Düsseldorf and Morbus Down In keeping with its commitment to sustainability, the Bank has promoted Krefeld e. V. NRW.BANK doubled the amount donated for a total Christmas the protection of bees in Düsseldorf since 2017. donation of € 9,960. Sustainability Report 2018 Corporate Citizenship 65 Besides the measures described above, which merely serve as examples, NRW.BANK supported many other projects in 2018 in the fields of “Science & Education“, “Arts & Culture” as well as “Society & Social Affairs”. In accordance with the “Guidelines for Corporate Citizenship and Other Services” set by the Supervisory Board, NRW.BANK made neither direct nor indirect donations to political parties or party-related foundations in 2018. Moreover, the Bank places no advertisements in their publications. NRW.BANK Düsseldorf Münster Responsible Photo Credits Kavalleriestraße 22 Friedrichstraße 1 (under press law) Cover: LIGHTFIELD STUDIOS / Fotolia.com; 40213 Düsseldorf 48145 Münster Caroline Gesatzki, p. 3 Christian Lord Otto, Düssel­dorf; p. 10 Phone +49 211 91741-0 Phone +49 251 91741-0 Head of Communication weerachaiphoto/­Fotolia.com; p. 21 Fax +49 211 91741-1800 Fax +49 251 91741-2921 NRW.BANK zapp2photo/­Fotolia.com; p. 28 Tom Wang/ Fotolia.com; p. 32 UKM IM GmbH; p. 37 Investor Relations www.nrwbank.de Concept, Design Bernhard Lindstrot/Solarpark Grottenkamp; Phone +49 211 91741-5555 info@nrwbank.de vE&K Werbeagentur p. 38 NRW.BANK/Udo Geisler; p. 39 left: investorrelations@nrwbank.de GmbH & Co. KG, Essen Stephan Anemüller/Kölner Verkehrs-Betriebe twitter.com/nrwbank AG, right: Christoph Seelbach/Kölner Sustainability ­Verkehrs-Betriebe AG; p. 42 silver-john/ Foto­lia.com; p. 50 Jacob Lund/Fotolia.com; Phone +49 211 91741-8081 p. 62 Coley Christine/Unsplash.com nachhaltigkeit@nrwbank.de Sustainability Report 2018 Corporate Citizenship 66
